ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e141	The representatives of Gunvor Eldegard, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Hans Olav Syversen and Sveinung Rotevatn, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative of Oluk V. Bollestad is applying for leave on 11 and 12 June to attend the working group of the Parliamentary Baltic Sea Conference on innovation in the health and care sector in Åland. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the Vara, Marie Liones Breek, is hereby called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e173	Marie Liones Breek is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16:00. Furthermore, the President will draw attention to the fact that today will be a very long day if we take account of the current agenda and the debates. A lot of speaking time has been allocated, and the President will therefore encourage the representatives to be moderate in speaking. I can already tell you that for the week.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e191	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and members of the Government 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e200	Let me begin by thanking the Committee for good cooperation during the examination of this matter. When things start to go a little fast and grumpy, as we say in Trøndelag, it's an advantage with flexible committee members and a positive basic mood. From this point of view, the Church, Education and Research Committee is in a fortunate situation, with many cheerful committee members and a capable and upstanding committee secretary. Norway and the world are facing major changes and shifts in economics, employment, housing patterns, energy and food needs, to mention something. If there's one thing history has taught us, it's that research, development and higher education are among the most important keys to solving these challenges and making the world a better place to live. Much is good with Norwegian research and higher education today. In recent years, the number of publications has increased sharply, doctoral degrees have doubled in the last ten years, and internationalisation has increased both by the withdrawal of several Norwegian students and researchers, and by the entry of several non-residents. We, that's actually the Moser couple, have even brought home a Nobel Prize for the country. Despite the fact that Norway is a small country with few inhabitants, we have a very open economy, where trade and cooperation with other countries are crucial for our and others' prosperity. We're a high-cost country, which can never be the cheapest at all. We can't be the best in everything either, but we can be the best at something, as we've always been – at least for the last 1,000 years. That is why we need to be able to combine investing in the subjects and environments in which we are best placed to succeed by strengthening the quality of welfare production through the important vocational training courses, in particular those related to health and education. Norwegian higher education institutions are mainly not competing with each other in the fight for research funding, researchers and students, but with institutions around the world. The current structure of higher education does not take this into account, and it is not well organised to meet these challenges. There is a large and broad majority in the United Kingdom behind the main points of the communication. Only the centre party has stood outside this broad majority. The centre party will probably come back to this itself, but I can already reveal that the rumors about the death of the college assignment and the professional training are considerably exaggerated. The objectives of the Structural Communication are high-quality education and research, robust professional environments, good access to education and skills across the country, regional development, world-leading professional environments and efficient resource use. These are simple formulations to stand behind, and everyone has been for them for a long time – it is at least difficult to be against them. But it is the concrete follow-up that is important, and mergers are the most important first follow-up, simply because today's organisation of the sector is not appropriate to meet the objectives we have set. It is not a new issue we are discussing here today. Although size is not necessarily the only salvaging thing, it is a fact that a number of fascinations in recent years have pointed to too small and vulnerable disciplines — despite the fact that the smallest environments of privacy considerations have not been evaluated. If the environment is not above a certain minimum size, we cannot expect it to ensure high quality, either today or in the future. In 2008, the Star Island Committee came up with its setting. They showed that many institutions had weak recruitment and failing quality in central education, that processes were moving towards the dissemination of education and training environments, and that they were set up for many small and narrow doctoral programmes. At that time it was not a political will for real follow-up. Five years ago, SAC funds — cooperation, division of labour and concentration — entered the State budget. That's where they've been since, supported by the whole Stortinget. These means may have led to some aggregations, and this has certainly led to some cooperation, but very little division of labour and concentration. The opposition has tried to criticise the process prior to the presentation of the Storing Message, without fully finding out why, at least I haven't understood it. In this context, let me draw the institutions in the sector and how they have met this challenge. Before I got into the Storting, many people said that this sector is characterized by arch-conservatives and – to put it mildly – little changeable actors. It's not my impression after two years here on the house and on the Kuf Committee. Most people have treated this in an exemplary way – they have had good conversations in-house and with each other, taken with employees and students on advice, worked out a course and found one or more partners they want to join or have conversations with, with a view to bringing them together. The majority of the Committee is very concerned that the mergers that are now coming must not be carried out only at the administrative level of each institution. It doesn't have much value in itself. Students and Norwegian student organisations have also been very concerned about this. Today, for example, 25 institutions offer economic and administrative subjects and 19 institutions offer teacher training. Institutions must be given the opportunity to develop their peculiarity and sharpen their profile against what is required to succeed. The crucial thing about mergers is to achieve more real division of labour and more real concentration and closer links between professional environments, and to achieve the multidisciplinary demand for employment and business. Student-active research is also an explicit objective. It will be difficult to achieve without good educational environments being closely linked to strong research environments. One of the means of achieving division of labour, concentration and stronger professional environments, as described in the Communication, is more stringent requirements for the creation of master and PhD programmes. In recent years, we have seen a large increase in the number of education programmes within these two categories, without necessarily being linked to existing high-quality professional environments. It is therefore positive that this should apply not only to new programmes but also to existing ones after a transitional period. This will require all institutions to review their portfolio critically and ask themselves whether it is right to do so or whether there are other institutions that have better prospects for success. The funding of higher education institutions is very important for the outcome. In Norway, we have a stable, predictable and relatively large basic allocation and allocation. We're going to keep having that. Nevertheless, a large majority of Stortinget believe that open competitive areas contribute to the promotion of quality, and that it is therefore natural that the competitive share of the basic allocation increases slightly. A prerequisite for this success is that the funds are released to the environment, not to institutions. I further point out that the funding system has been brought back more detailed in the context of the 2016 state budget. What is also important for the institutions is management. The Government proposes in the message that the Vice-Chancellor and the External Director shall be the main model in the future, versus today's main model with the elected Vice-Chancellor. This is supported by most of the parties in Stortinget. It's maybe this one that's got the most attention outside this house lately. The debate has sometimes seemed as if it would be impossible to choose the principal, and that the principal should be appointed from a dark office in KD's basement or from the basement of Storting. Here, too, rumors are considerably exaggerated. It's the boards to decide if you want to add the principal, or whether you should have chosen the principal. The difference now is that the choice becomes more real, because it's a general majority, more than 50 pst. by the Governing Board, which determines. It's not like that today. So the system is becoming more democratic, not less. Employees and students have, and should still have, a majority of the board of directors. They are with the key, regardless of whether you select the Vice-Chancellor or choose to add the Vice-Chancellor. This isn't the end, it's the beginning. Now we're getting what we've been talking about for years, what a large majority agree on, and what will make the sector more rusty for the competition they're in every single day. I'm looking forward to the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e240	It is natural to start by thanking the case rapporteur, Sivert Bjørnstad, for the responsibility to sew this setting together. There are complex issues that lie under the structural debate in the university and higher education sectors, and there are many cross-cutting interests, including geographical ones. And in this case too, it is an advantage with as broad a majority as possible – so thank you to Sivert Bjørnstad. An overall committee agrees with much of the description of reality, that R & D education and investment are crucial for Norwegian competitiveness and to successfully solve challenging tasks in society. We point out that the UH sector has a complex societal mission: to contribute to scientific excellence in the pursuit of new knowledge and to train candidates who will function well with their competences. And it's just quality good research in good interaction with the education mission we think achieves the best results. There is also an overall committee that believes that we need institutions with a higher profile and stronger professional environments, and that SAK – cooperation, work sharing and concentration – has been necessary, but that we have not achieved that goal. The Workers' Party supports mergers as an instrument for creating stronger institutions. The institutions that are struggling to get enough students and recruit competent professionals for the positions must do something. For some institutions aggregation will be a proper act, for others committed cooperation is better. That is why it is good that a joint committee also emphasises this very approach. But structural changes are not enough to achieve better quality. The division of labour by trades has been a major issue in the debate, and we are also calling for a debate on the division of labour by tasks. All institutions shall be research-based – there is no doubt about it. But what does that mean? That everyone should be world leaders? That the main task is to run R & D with local or national businesses? To stimulate the researcher himself to become a founder or to cooperate with entrepreneurs? Or to be at the top of training engineers or nurses as well as being excellent at museum development and other research dissemination? Some institutions in Norway are able to do this in some subjects, but not all institutions in all subjects. In addition, we find few institutions on a global scale like high-quality goggles with all of these balls at the same time. Quality is the government's mantra in education and research policy – not very controversial, because we're all too quality. But we see in this big message, as we saw in the long-term research plan, a belief that investing in world-leading research will almost automatically provide better quality of education and more research-based development. I don't see any automation in this. The high quality of research will be an important premise for creating new jobs based on new technologies, for example: – and an important premise for good education. But the path from an discovery to a successful company that makes money is long and fragile and is about far more than being the world leader in research. Similarly, it has not been given that a Nobel Prize winner is needed to increase the quality of teaching. Students who were so lucky to experience two Nobel Lecturers at the same time at the Institute of Economics on Blinders have told of two fantastic economists, one of whom was a glittering mediator, while the other's message was more inaccessible. The social role of the sector is complex. Then the Workers' Party expected a broader and more thorough discussion of what quality meant. Something as essential as finding out what quality of education is is is pushed to 2017. Then, of course, many institutions have already merged. Here, things are done in the wrong order. This also applies to future financing. I find it disappointing that we are not adopting a new funding system today. Instead, we have been given an overview of the possible indicators that the government is assessing, as well as a signal that the results-based part will increase. We don't know how much or how. Instead, this will come in the budget for the harvest, not exactly the place and the room for the great principal balances. They best fit in with groceries messages like the one we handle today. That being said, the Labour Party is well pleased that the government parties on the Stortinget have seen the need for more transparency and transparency about the basic appropriations in the sector. All parties therefore ask the government to return to this with regard to the operation of the basic appropriations under the new financing system. We believe this is necessary in order to get more calm in the sector around this basic allocation, and we are responding to the government's response to this. The government and the majority are in favour of increasing the requirements for being accredited as a university or a higher education institution. The Labour Party is opposed to doing so – a decision of a more principleal nature. There is today a moving transition between higher education, scientific colleges and universities. The clear distinction we used to have between colleges and universities is about to be cleared up. This has been going on over time and is also linked to the debate on funding. The mergers that will now come make this picture even more complex. Small colleges become part of a university at a pen stroke, while institutions that are very close by meeting today's requirements to become a university will experience that the list is being put higher in the middle of the jump. It hardly happens under Bislett Games, to say it like that. The working party believes that it is time for a comprehensive review of the categorisation system and suggests this. At the same time, we can see that many institutions have taken a very high level of professionalism precisely because they have had university ambitions, which is good. But what's worrying is if the traditional college assignment is weakened. For Norway, good professional training is required throughout the country. We will need many newly trained teachers, nurses, protectors, economists, child protection educators, etc. forwards. Then we have to train enough, and we have to train candidates who have relevant research-based competence at a high level. The fact that the Committee underlines just how important this mission is is is that the Workers' Party is very pleased, and I hope that the Council of State will take note of this very thing. One way to acknowledge that understanding is to establish a separate research programme for the professional professions. It will contribute to a necessary quality promise and ensure a balance between good professional training on the one hand and world-leading environments on the other. We both applaud. I'm especially pleased that this message is approaching the debate on leadership in the academy with caution. Management is important, as a unanimous committee clearly states. If you have chosen or hired a Vice-Chancellor, it is now up to the Board to decide, as the case-rapporteur, Mr. Sivert Bjørnstad, well described. And the debate goes. For it is this decision in the vote that has led to the most debate. And I think it's absolutely brilliant, especially when employees and students in the sector are discussing with each other. In short, I would like to point out that there are good arguments for both models, and that we have excellent principals in Norway who are both elected and employed. But for me, it has been essential that with these mergers, the old model of elected principal becomes more difficult, simply because candidates from a smaller institution will obviously have less chance of being elected than candidates from a larger institution. We now see examples of mergers where the big institution wants elected management, it will have less employees. I'm not very surprised that they just take these positions. Finally, a few words about the institute sector. This part of Research Norway has an important role that we want it to continue to play: more emphasis on applied research and an important role in value creation. At the same time, SAK for the institutions is something that should be considered to the greatest extent. The same applies to instruments for better cooperation with universities and higher education institutions. But also here it is about ensuring a good division of tasks and different roles, so that the broad and very complex societal mission of research, development and higher education is best taken care of. Finally, I would like to comment on the final reply to the case rapporteur, Mr Bjørnstad, that we are at the beginning. Well, the start of this merger was probably really when the Council of State Gudmund Hernes started with the Norwegian network and merged very many smaller institutions. What we see now is the continuation of SAK, which the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen started, and got through seven institutions that merged. So this is a step on the way to a slightly different university and college system, and I actually think we're getting closer to the end than we're at the beginning. Then I will address the proposal of the Workers' Party and the proposals of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV are agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e274	The representative of Marianne Aasen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e277	I will also be allowed to thank the rapporteur and the committee for their good cooperation in this matter. Universities, colleges and our research institutes are a large and important area of society. The way we choose to manage our human capital has great consequences for society and for future generations. Much works well in the Norwegian higher education sector, but the sector as a whole is not organised to meet future quality requirements in education and research. In the submission of the work of the Productivity Commission in winter, Mr Rattsø, Head of the Commission, expressed strong concern about several aspects of the Norwegian education sector. He asked questions about our ambitions and asked if it is good enough to be in the middle of the tree. Councilsø referred to the fact that, internationally, we have intermediate achievements in education, research, innovation and the public sector. Is that good enough? No, we don't think this government should tolerate it. In the period 2000 to 2012, international trade panels have carried out a total of 27 evaluations of Norwegian research communities under the direction of the Norwegian Research Council. One of the review themes of several evaluations is that many disciplines are too small to pursue important research issues, and too small to assert themselves in international competition. In evaluations of the education activities carried out by NOKUT, the National Agency for Quality of Education, the panels have also expressed concerns about the many small educational environments. We have many vulnerable professional environments with scattered, small educational facilities. More people are experiencing a failure of recruitment. Some of the institutions have problems attracting professionals, other students. Research and publication efforts vary greatly. Similarly, the ability to raise external funding and the opportunities to participate in international cooperation. These are the challenges we recognise from the report Nou 2008:3 of the Stjernø Committee – New structure in higher education. At the time, the hearing showed that there was a broad consensus on the situation description, but little support for follow-up. One of the reasons for this is that these are key institutions in the economic, cultural, social and regional development of the country, and therefore vulnerable to the different parts of the country. However, if our universities and colleges are to play their part in the future, they must provide high-quality education and research and have extensive cooperation with society and industry. Our students deserve high-quality education at all places of study across the country. They're going to solve tomorrow's challenges. At the same time, we need researchers who can claim in the national and international arena. They need heavy and solid professional environments to work in. This is the background for us today to deal with a big message that not only gives a broad overview of the situation description, but also of the objectives and the action page. The message we are debating needs to be seen in a broad context. The government is now making a major effort on knowledge to strengthen Norwegian competitiveness and equip Norway for the future. We have already adopted a long-term plan for research and higher education aimed at strengthening Norway’s competitiveness and innovation capacity, addressing major societal challenges and developing excellent professional environments. The Government has also developed a strategy for research and innovation cooperation with the EU, which sets out the ambitions for Norwegian participation in Horizon 2020. In government budgets, the knowledge effort has been followed up in both education and research. It's the acidiest thing in the world. Looking at our neighbouring countries in Europe, several other countries have had to concentrate resources and modernise and streamline the university and higher education sectors in order to achieve better quality. The objectives of this structural reform are clear. It is about facilitating high-quality education and research. It is about developing more robust and robust professional environments. It is about providing access to education and competence across the country and contributing to regional development and efficient resource use. Not least, it is about facilitating the development of good professional environments that can compete internationally in world-class. It's in this perspective that we need to see the structural message. The Expert Group on Financing has assessed how the financing system for the sector can be set up, and the Minister of Knowledge has already announced that the next step will be a new report on quality in higher education. Here a stone is laid on a rock. In the analysis of productivity, Rattsø said: «The focus of policy must be shifted from competition in appropriations to evaluation of results and costs.» Today, we have good evidence that the results in the sector vary – not only between the different institutions but also within the same institution. There are considerable differences in quality between different disciplines. That is why, in my view, this communication strengthens the fact that it identifies nine clear quality criteria that will apply to the whole sector, regardless of the nature and size of the institutions. In the debate that has taken place so far since the notification, three areas in particular have been discussed. There are structural changes — the merger processes — that are the financing of the sector, and that is the question of elected versus employed management of institutions. As regards the merger procedures mentioned in the notification, there has been close dialogue between the Ministry of Knowledge and the individual institutions. Decisions shall be taken by the King of the Council of States. I am pleased that the entire committee has joined the government's objective of structural reform in the joint comments in the vote. It is worth noting that the investment in world-leading professional environments should be linked to the areas where we as a nation have the best prerequisites for success. The development of such environments must address both education, research and innovation. These have to be seen in context. There's an important signal in the message. A unanimous committee points out that it is important to continue the efforts on instruments such as the Centres for Research-driven Innovation, the SFI, the Centres for Excellent Research, the SFF, and not least the Centres for Excellent Education, the SFU. In my view, this will be one of the success criteria for the success of the reform. The higher education sector is a major social sector. Good funding is essential for the ability to succeed in improving quality. I am pleased that there was an overall committee that points out in the vote that there will be a strength for the sector with more transparency and transparency about the basic allocation. The Committee asks the government to come back to this in the context of the changes in the financing system in the budgetary process. Funding shall promote the quality of the entire sector, of the disciplines and of the professional studies. Overall, we need to set up funding so that we get the most out of the resources. The Committee has jointly pointed out that universities and colleges have historically had different framework conditions in terms of research time and recruitment positions. This is reflected in different basic funding for the so-called old and so-called new universities and colleges. An overall committee asks the government to address this issue and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner. That's good. Finally, I would like to comment on the management models discussed in the communication. Our universities and colleges manage large resources for the community. It's demanding. Changes in the sector have led to greater competition, including internationally. In addition, institutions are becoming more and more complex. This requires good implementation, governance and management. Although the government is now adding to the notification a new main model with an employed principal and external director, it is clear that the institutions themselves are making the choice for their university or college. It is the Board of Directors which is the top organ of the institution and which has to decide how best to ensure that the managers recruited are the most qualified to take up the task. I support the resolution on the new main model, but I am pleased that it is so clearly emphasised that it is the governments that are taking the final decision. This is important in order to ensure the autonomy of institutions. Good objectives and strategies are important, but results are generated in their implementation. ‘The proof of the pudding is in the eating.’ A good plan must now be implemented with commitment and commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e343	Our country is dependent on good education and high-quality research, and we are going to have high ambitions for the Norwegian university and higher education sectors. The size has adopted the first long-term plan for research and higher education. There we agreed on some long-term bets and clear priorities for the future. We commit ourselves to stepping up the research effort. We fixed a goal of making R & D 3 pst. of GDP by 2030. We agreed to bet on fields such as marine and maritime research, on climate, environment and environmentally friendly energy and on enabling technologies, and we agreed on a goal of developing more professional environments of excellent quality. While we need the spearheads, we also need good professional training across the country. We need good training for future teachers, nurses, engineers, economists, etc. I feel that there is a broad political consensus that we need to make certain structural changes in the sector in order to achieve these objectives. Several reports point out that we have too many small and vulnerable professional environments in Norway, and we may not have optimally structured the UH sector to maximise the investment we make in the sector. I think that's why it's good that there are now a number of positive processes going on. I don't think mergers are the only charity, but I think that in many places it will be necessary and positive. I would therefore commend the government for starting this work, and not least the various institutions that have taken the challenge seriously, and set in motion a comprehensive work. At the same time, on several occasions I have warned against merging institutions against their will. I think a merger will have the best assumptions for success if the parties see a mutual benefit of the merger and want such a process. I am therefore pleased that the Committee expresses the view that the Ministry should not exclude institutions that can meet future quality requirements as independent institutions through commitment cooperation with others from being able to do so. I am also pleased that an overall assessment of the institutions, based on the quality criteria, will be carried out and that emphasis will also be given to matters such as student involvement in research, student satisfaction and follow-up of the students. The Stortinget now opens up so that institutions can change the category again. This means that several of today's colleges will be able to apply to become universities. At the same time, we are tightening up the accreditation requirements. I think this is a reasonable grip. It is no longer the category belonging that is the natural distinction in the division of labour between different institutions. Both universities and universities today offer both professional and discipline studies. They are subject to the same law and the same funding system. I also believe that a university status of those institutions that meet quality requirements can help to strengthen the recruitment of both good students and good researchers from abroad and thus help us achieve some of the national objectives that we have set ourselves for the sector. At the same time, I am concerned that we should have a division of labour in the sector. Everyone must not try to become like the University of Oslo or NTNU. Different institutions have different roles and roles. That is why we need a funding system that facilitates this and that contributes to professional and profile excellence at the institutions. I am also concerned that we should have a transparent funding system. There is a large-scale government that grants resources to the institutions, and it is these appropriations that have made a significant contribution to possible imbalances in the system, but we now need a better understanding of how the basic component is composed. More transparency and transparency will be a strength for the sector, and the Committee is therefore asking the Ministry to come back to this in the context of the changes in the funding system. At the end of the day, a few words about governance and management: The question of elected or employed Vice-Chancellor has created a public debate. I think there are good arguments for both. That is why I am pleased that it is still up to the individual institution to choose this, and that the freedom of choice actually becomes more real after the change that is now taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e366	The desire to develop and improve the higher education sector is no new desire. Over many years, there has been a dissatisfaction with our universities being too low on international rankings, including in Europe. Low counting on institutions' work on repatriation of European research funds has also been subject to frustration. One might apologize with many, but it's up to us that we don't want to be moderate, sail if most of us are. There is a lot of positive drive, however, in the desire for improvement. There has also been a dissatisfaction with the fact that the quality of the higher education sector has not been good enough. Several have pointed out that small devices make environments vulnerable and offer less opportunities for good professional immersion. The quality reform was launched in 2004, but after ten years the changes made at that time do not seem to have had the effect you wanted, and many have shown good progress. Single institutions have improved, but students in general have not become more satisfied. But when part of the back ground for this case is dissatisfied with the colleges, it's interesting to note that college students actually seem to be more satisfied than university students. In 2008, the Starø report was presented. It would look at whether the structure of the sector was forward-looking for, among other things. increased internationalisation. The answer from the sample was: aggregation of institutions. The response from the red-greens was: more committed cooperation, division of labour and concentration. The sector has taken on SAK, but to a lesser extent has made it possible to fulfil its objectives. Thus the blue-blue government, with the Left and Christian People's Party, screws the screw to: the institutions are to be merged. I have said in the past that I believe the government and the Council of State have started to increase the quality of the UH sector in the back. We want higher quality, universities need to go up on international rankings and become more internationalised, and the higher education sector needs to research more and train teachers, nurses and engineers in the wider world of work regionally. But to increase the quality of the sector, we need to think about what quality of higher education is. I can only look at parts of this discussion as something schizophrenic. On the one hand, the distinction and pointing up as the main objective. At the same time, institutions shall continue to meet the needs of regional labour for skills and the business needs for innovation and cooperation with the academia. In spite of this, the fundamental discussion of the mission of the various institutions has been absent in the message and in the political discussion. The majority have pointed out that in 2013 NIFU and IPED were assigned to evaluate quality in higher education. Their work shall be carried out in 2016. The rapporteur was also concerned about the same. That was a good grip. The problem is that the grantor — the government and the state council — does not see the point of waiting for this work until they make structural changes. The Government considers that the answer to the question of increased quality is that institutions are merged and have joint management. The government does not take time to review and analyse the quality drivers. They've made up a set of nine criteria that are their definition of quality. Once the answer has been given in advance, we in the Centre Party are very concerned that the whole process will lead to a large-scale rehabilitation of good trade unions, and that both the quality of education and research and geographical access to higher education will be weakened. We are therefore critical of the starting point and the premise of the process that the government has initiated. The central party believes that the message of one-sided emphasis is on some weaknesses in today’s university and higher education systems, without balancing it with the Norwegian UH institutions actually achieving excellent education and research. We believe that the government in this way underlies the value of knowledge development and candidate production in a variety of institutions spread throughout the country, and the significance of this. The Joint University and Higher Education Act has helped to erase the lines of distinction between the traditional higher education assignment and the university assignment. We see that the government does not have a conscious higher education policy in this. Everyone is not going to do the same thing, but at the same time they're going to do the same thing anyway. And everyone has to be "excellent". It's a pious goal, but colleges have a broader goal than answering the big questions of the world community. They shall also ensure equal access to education and competence throughout the country. Since the government in practice believes that the university is the only answer, the Centre Party fears that the result could be a lower quality in the broad vocational training courses and a lower priority for institutions to meet the need for regional labour. We stand before the great 'high school death'. The country's colleges and universities have been under strong pressure for a year and a half to find merger partners. Sick if some institutions wish to join a larger unit, several of the UH institutions have concluded in the process that they will be best served to continue as maritime institutions. Despite thorough investigations by the institutions, however, the government has chosen to review these professional and strategic assessments by imposing new rounds on them. We believe that such a review is unwise and would rather criticise the government for not allowing to consider alternatives to mergers in the preliminary rounds, but we are very pleased that the committee is instructing the government to do so in the future. It is important that educational provision is distributed to meet the needs of all parts of the country. The government does not propose a reduction in the number of study places. Nevertheless, the Centre Party is concerned that the impact on the long-term can be precisely centralised in the provision of study services. The government cannot guarantee that merged and maritime institutions will gradually make changes to the supply structure in order to bring together professional environments that could lead to the centralisation of the campus structure. It will be up to the board of directors of each institution to decide on the location of the campus and the establishment and closure of study facilities. The centre party fears campus branches without professional qualifications that are fully subject to faculties at other places of study. When the decision-making authority is moved further away from today’s study sites, it could in the long term weaken the local and regional governance of the offers. We therefore believe that the Stortinget must decide if the professional qualifications of the individual campus should be terminated. It is necessary to obtain funding if the government will return to this in the State budget. There is a great weakness in the message that it does not address this, and again shows that the whole reform is an urgent reform. Here you start with the answer – that is aggregation – to explore funding as a result of it, and you end up looking at what quality is. It's really in the back! It is quite understandable that several higher education institutions are attracted by the possibility of better funding, greater autonomy and higher status by becoming part of a university. Access to more professional competence is, of course, very important, but mergers cannot be a prerequisite for doing so. Cooperation between institutions is absolutely necessary and must not be confined to taking place within a region or restricted nationally. We need both national and international cooperation. The centre party is concerned that someone is counting on the gains they see they are now going to achieve. We have examples of this when the new universities were categorized from college to university. How we finance universities and colleges is very important for how the UH sector organizes and how they have the opportunity to develop. The basic component is a recurring theme when institutions address their challenges and needs. The current calculation of the basic appropriations is based on old and outdated policy priorities. The basic component must be more transparent and fairer, and I refer in this respect to the proposals put in by the Central Party and promote them. We are also critical of increasing the output component. There is no fault in itself, but if this is to be a criterion, it must be followed up with clear criteria for premiums also by the institutions which train for the wider working life. The centre party believes that it is disappointing and alarming that the biases are proposed further. We do not want a situation in which institutions with low basic appropriations will have a weaker strategic space for action and poorer opportunities to cut the quality indicators optimally than institutions that have been allocated a high basic component for historical reasons. We expect the government to rectify this when they deal with the financing of the state budget. We are also concerned that the costs of the merger process itself and the weighting of quality requirements in favour of excellent research will divert resources from teaching. There is also a concern that it is the students who have to pay the bill for government ambitions. It is surprising that neither the government nor the committee seems to be particularly concerned about this. The merger process at NTNU is already marked, and a representative from the University of Tromsø, who is already in this process, says that bureaucracy has increased and that the system and rules have become more rigid. We see that there is a majority for the coercion of universities and colleges, but the government also believes that the work in the back is starting here: centralization is the most important, regardless of what you think you get out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e417	The representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien has taken up the suggestions she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e420	Let me start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation in this matter – and not least the case rapporteur, Sivert Bjørnstad, for the work that has been done to guide us through this rather large and partly complicated matter. It is a broad political consensus that we must focus on quality in the UH sector. It's quite natural that we always have to strive to get even better. If there's knowledge and competence we're going to live on in the future, it won't help to rest. We always have to try to get better. It's about different things. It’s all about – as many have been involved – that we need to have world-leading environments in research. We're going to have some spearheads – we have to be really good at something. But then it's also about having good education. We have to make sure that the students, wherever they study, get solid and good education. I feel that the sector has acted constructively in the current round. I feel that they have been constructive, both in terms of finding out different mergers and in terms of looking at different types of cooperation. I see it as a common interest for each institution to be strengthened. I am very pleased that an overall committee is behind the desire to ask the government not to exclude that institutions can cooperate to achieve the quality criteria that we set. I think that maybe it's Bergen – like the Högskulen in Sogn and Fjordane – who have been the most obvious that cooperation can be a good way to achieve the quality criteria. It's not always the size that matters in terms of quality in this sector. Often the NHH is drawn out as a not very large college, but one that is very eaten and good at what it's doing. We have a challenge when we're going to merge. Either there'll be mergers, or there'll be commitment cooperation, we can't just settle down that now we've joined together, we've maintained the campus and continue as before. The point of the merger must be to strengthen the professional content. It is a demanding process for the institutions to implement it. I think it will also be a task for the government to follow up on this that when you combine institutions, you get something left for it, both on the research side and, not least, on the teaching side – that it leads to a quality improvement. So this is what more people have been up to, with elected or hired principal. There has been a great debate. There are very different opinions about this, both in the sector and politically. What has been important for the Left is that the institutions themselves should choose the form of government they want. Some institutions have chosen to employ the principal – they like it and think it works well – while others want to continue with the elected principal, which I am pleased that they will now be allowed to. But it's going to be a change when we get a combination, which is also going to be a multiple. It creates a different dynamics. If you're from the smallest institution, the chances of getting a elected principal from there are considerably less than getting a elected principal from the big institution. It is quite natural that this debate now has a different dimension than it has had in the past. That it's now the governments that are going to decide, by a majority, whether they want one thing or another, I think it's important. These are institutions that can and should govern themselves to a large extent. I have to say briefly about this with funding. There has been one of the major debates in the wake of this big message. I agree with those who say that funding should be part of this message, because there are two aspects of the same matter. We have to see this a little bit in context. But it's not part of this message. We know it's coming in the budget for the autumn. That is why we still need to focus on this in the future. We need to create a funding system that is transparent and transparent. I am pleased that the committee underlines this. We as magnification must be able to account for the appropriations that have been given. Then we also have to know what they're going to do. I hope that will bring peace to the sector in the future. We need to create a funding system that allows the different institutions to improve what they're good at, and so that not everyone has to have the breadth of our wide universities. I'm glad that the government is now addressing the problem that goes on at the traditional universities and the new universities and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e446	The Committee agrees on a great deal in this sector. It is also in the configuration. At the same time, there is a greater and deeper disagreement about what actually creates good research and higher education. Government policies are based on a belief that greater is the best, that more competition leads to higher quality, and that cities are the place where research is primarily to be done. What is most troubling in the proposal for a new government funding system is that they announce that the fundamental freedoms are to form a small part of the funding of the institutions, that competition should mean more. It worries me because innovative, groundbreaking, great research requires long-termity and foresight in the vows. There shall be room to fail and to widen strategic bets over a longer period of time. Most of the researchers' time must be spent on research, teaching and dissemination, at least on other tasks, such as searching for money or adapting research programs to search for money. Kari Melby, Vice-Chancellor at NTNU, wrote this in the Vice-Chancellor's blog last fall: ‘But it is an important point that our ability to produce world-leading environments cannot be based primarily on such a targeted instrument. The main instrument is the basic allocation. Long experience has taught us that if we are to be able to underpin environments with the potential to be world leaders, we need a framework allocation where not all possible purposes are earmarked." Something similar says Edvard Moser, who received Norway's first Nobel Prize in Medicine last year. In a debate in the morning paper he said: ‘The problem is that publishing large quantities is incompatible with publishing as best as possible.’ We should have gone the wrong way, as SV suggested in the budgetary process last year, towards greater basic funding. We will do that because we want autonomous, independent institutions within higher education, not because higher education should be disconnected from society, but because autonomous institutions are better for society. Universities and universities are not producers of study credits or research articles; they are important social actors with critical assignments. With this message we take a step towards a more market-oriented business model for higher education. He builds on the idea that competition provides the best research, that larger units provide the best research, and that more measurement, more quality indicators and reporting provide more scientific breakthroughs. We don't think so, nor does Edvard Moser think so. The number problem that Moser points to is also reflected in the other quality criteria that the Storing Message provides. The category «searching for study programmes» may become a marketing driver that does not correspond to the actual content of the study. Of course, the category ‘high performance’ is good, but not if it becomes a driver of less ambitious study and lower requirements. The category ‘PhD size’ is not a favourable criterion if this means that the institutions are increasing the programme without improving the follow-up of the scholarship holders. New knowledge and research are developing best through a running, open and democratic debate. It is through this openness and the internal democracy of research that new knowledge is discussed and often debated. The basics of this openness and this democracy lie the autonomy of the researchers – that they should not be over-directed by other external relations. Therefore, strengthening the basic funding is so important for SV. Hence, we are skeptical of aggregations with coercion and closure of small subjects because they are small. So we're going to change the model where the principal is the starting point of the academy. There is too much faith that structure is the answer to the challenges in the UH sector. Merging can have a good effect, but it's not a miracle cure. It's not like the students at Gjøvik suddenly wake up to a whole new study day on the day they go to NTNU and the principal in Trondheim. Big doesn't have to be good, small doesn't have to be bad. SV does not mean this system leads to different institutions adapting their mission, and we are therefore too critical to much of the government's proposal. I would like to address the proposal we are making in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e475	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e478	The government has presented a big message of structural reform in the university and higher education sectors, and we have taken on board some major challenges that both of us as a society face: climate change, the combination of lifting millions of people out of poverty while doing so in a sustainable way, the need for change in energy use, and here at home challenges related to the age structure of the population, cracking the welfare community – and the very need to continue to have a strong welfare society and high value creation. It's not new that the world is changing, but the pace may be faster than before, and it'll always be uncertain what it's changing to. Universities and colleges play a key role in our society. They are carriers in the further development of the knowledge society to provide education and education. It's very good to say about today's university and higher education sector, but like most of the other major messages, this is also about the challenges. But I also want to stress that this is not a message that will solve all the challenges. It addresses the overall framework, the structure, and identifies the changes that should be made to it. A considerable amount of resources is used in the university and higher education sectors, but resources are distributed too thinly. There are many small and vulnerable trade unions, including other speakers, and many scattered, small training facilities with failed recruitment. It's not a diagnosis that came up with the new government. In 2008, the Star Island Committee presented an investigation that said the same thing. Evaluation by the National Agency for Quality of Education (NOCUT) also shows the concern that resources are being distributed too much. Under the direction of the Norwegian Research Council, international trade panels have carried out almost 30 evaluations of Norwegian research environments. A review theme is that many professional environments are too small to pursue important research issues, including in the professional field, and to be able to compete in international competition. That is the important starting point for the notification and for the changes we think it is necessary. The discussion on structure in the higher education sector is not new. I've mentioned the Star Island Committee. In the wake of it, the previous government invited the institutions to come together and merge. The majority allocated money for cooperation, work sharing and concentration, and there were some results, but not enough. The government is responsible for the overall structure of the higher education sector, and there is a need for greater changes than we have seen so far. That's why we take responsibility for it and implement changes, and we do it through a process that is involved. This involves good dialogue with the institutions themselves, although not all institutions necessarily get the solution they have at the top of the wish list if they only look at their own institutions. A good process also involves political anchoring. The policy of higher education and research, at least the major structural interventions, has been marked by broad consensus. It's important, because we want solutions that stand over time, and that the Storting ends up on. There is also an important background for the presentation of this message. Quality is the overall objective of the government’s knowledge policy, and the communication of structures expresses clear objectives on high-quality education and research. We're going to have robust professional environments. A strength with the Norwegian system is that we have good access to education and skills across the country, and we still need that. Institutions shall be better able to play an active role in regional development. We want good education at all levels and at all places of study, but we also want environments that claim to be completely at the top of the world. Larger trade unions and larger institutions are helping to do this. We will also focus on efficient resource use, without thinking that bigger will always be better, and there have been good examples here of institutions that are not big in the meaning of many students, but which are nevertheless excellent in their fields of study. It is also important to stress that aggregation is not an end in itself; it is a means of promoting quality. It also means that neither the institutions nor the government nor the Storting are done when mergers are carried out. Quality is a goal we must constantly work for, and an important part of that work will be a key message of quality in higher education in 2017. In the Structural Communication, we point to some criteria that say something about quality or how robust an institution is: the number of years of first-rate competence, student recruitment, the time-use and completion of students, the publication of new research, external revenues, the size of doctoral programmes, interaction with society and international orientation. These are not new criteria; they are known criteria that have over time been used by both the sector, politicians and others to discuss quality. It is also the most relevant criteria for assessing structure. Therefore, it makes sense to use them as a starting point to assess whether an institution is solid enough to stand alone. But there's no formula for quality, and there's no formula for structure either. In other words, we do not set any absolute minimum requirements or evaluate solely according to the criteria. We need to make an overall assessment of the institutions and the alternatives available. However, when someone scores consistently low, it is our opinion that they should be merged with others. More research-based vocational training and the introduction of five-year teacher training are also an important background for structural changes. Many institutions will not have professional assumptions for, for example: to be able to offer a five-year teacher training alone. New recording requirements may also affect recruitment. In the message, we're sketching some institutions that can be merged quite quickly. These assessments are the result of a rather long and very open process. We also point to some institutions that have not yet found their place. We want to have further dialogue with these institutions through a still open process. So there's no secret map now drawn up by the drawer. Other institutions will be doing fine by themselves, but have an important job to do with prioritising, consolidating and developing professional environments within their own institutions. Still others may need to continue the process when they see how the sector evolves and how it will affect them. As I said, aggregation is just one instrument of quality. In the Communication, we also present some other instruments that work together with structural changes, such as: new requirements for master and doctoral programmes to ensure that they are anchored in stronger disciplines. It should still be possible for an institution, for a college, to become a scientific college or university, and that dynamism has also brought with it much good. However, this has also led to the establishment of some predominantly narrow doctoral programmes with few candidates. That is why we are tightening up the criteria for changing the category of institutions. Good governance and management are essential for high-quality education and research. Today, institutions may choose whether to elect the Vice-Chancellor of the Board of Directors or the Chairperson of the External Board and the Vice-Chancellor of the Vice-Chancellor. That choice will remain there, but the government believes that the model of external directors best facilitates both the cleanliness and the recruitment of the most qualified management, and gives the board a clearer and more independent role in the day-to-day management of the institution. Not to say that there are not many very good principals who have been elected, but that is the political, principled decision and the angle of incidence. If the institutions themselves disagree, they will still be able to decide that they should have elected the Vice-Chairman. The change in the UH sector needs to be seen in the context of the large government’s commitment to research and higher education. It must be seen in the context of the long-term research and higher education plan, it must be seen in the context of the budgets, and it must be seen in the context of the quality notification. The notification also refers to other measures, such as: the development of the supervisory model of NOKUT. We have also announced changes to the funding system, based on advice from an expert group and on the process and dialogue with the sector. Some of these adjustments could have budgetary effects. That makes me think they belong in the state budget. Some of the adjustments are so closely related to the structure and institutional framework conditions that we have presented them in the communication. We're going to do the best we can to add up to a process that will give Storting the time to discuss a funding system as well. For the government it has been important to give institutions a predictability by already saying that we want to continue the main features of today's system, while at the same time increasing the profit-based funding over time. This does not mean that basic appropriations are radically reorganized, but that means that over time more will come as a result of competition in open arenas. The size of the performance-based part and the indicators to be included, the establishment of the strength ratio between them and the issues of the open or closed framework have economic implications and should therefore be addressed in the context of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e531	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e534	I intend to ask a question about the funding system, which was the end of the state council's intervention. It is true that a committee of experts was set up to provide the basis for the assessments outlined in the notification. The government did not choose to go further with the basic allocation, how it is composed and how it works. At the same time, there is a unanimous committee calling on the government to come back and address this issue related to what some people experience as different framework conditions and which others consider to have good explanations in the sector, but on which an overall committee wants to go more deeply. How does the Council of State see to it that this is going to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e543	When a joint committee asks for it, we will, of course, do it. This means that, in the context of a new funding system to be put forward, this must emerge before the Stortinget adopts a new funding system, we will also provide an overview of the overall structure of basic funding. Then there's an interesting discussion that several have been in here, namely for and against a high base share. The advantage that SV points to – and I fully agree with that – is that a large amount of basic funding means that institutions have a great opportunity to prioritise themselves, have their own priorities. The disadvantage, if you can call it that, is that basic funding, in order not to get too radical changes in funding for the institutions from year to year, also reflects previous political decisions. This means that different institutions have been subjected to — or blessed with — different policy decisions over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e550	We're now told that we're going to get an overview of the basic allocation, and that's fine. I'm just wondering why didn't that overview come in this message?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e555	The majority of the Committee calls for the government to return in an appropriate manner with – what to call it – an overview of the overall level of basic funding, i.e. the components and elements of what is called basic funding. And what I'm going to assume is an attempt by the committee to answer the recordings that have come up that basic funding is kind of a black box. You want to know what has driven the development of basic funding, and we're going to come back to Stortinget with that. We haven't done that before, because our starting point was that we should continue the main features of today's model, and that we don't want too radical changes in funding for the institutions from one year to another. However, I do not believe that the Committee is in favour, but we should, of course, do what the Committee has asked us to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e562	I should almost have wanted to go on with the basic component, but I'm going to focus on something else, because in the Address Paper on 19 May they write about the first dispute between the merger partners, and it goes on the merger between NTNU, Gjøvik, Ålesund and the University of South-Trøndelag. It was recommended that everyone should sit on the board, and everyone certainly believed that everyone would be in the new board of merger partners, but it would not be in the board of NTNU. They said no. But on 21 May there was an e-mail round in which they said they could assess it anyway. The others would have one representative each, and Gjøvik could have one representative from the students. I wonder what steps the Council of State will take to ensure the need for local food and labour and whether the Council of State is satisfied with how this process has developed?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e569	In general, I am satisfied with how the process has evolved, and then I also assume that when there has been great local uprising, both in Gjøvik and Ålesund, that you are going to become a part of NTNU, it is not least that working life and business see great benefits with it. Then I believe that what we have to take political responsibility for is, above all, the overall structural framework. I'm not here for us to go into detailing institutions. It also means that how to deal with merger processes, what kind of talks you have in advance, I believe that institutions and governments should have a great responsibility for them and that they should not be governed in detail politically. Then I have full confidence that these institutions, both the University of Southern Tronde, NTNU, Gjøvik and Ålesund, will come up with a good solution. Every time I meet them, they're very excited to get to Norway's largest university, so I think it's going well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e578	We all agree that this round we are going to have to lead to higher quality in the sector, both on the research side and not least on the education side. And it's a challenge for the sector when you have different campuses, as it is now, that are going to be under one institution – firstly because if a university joins a university, there will necessarily be a difference in quality if you think about it, for example. initial positions. But then it will also be a challenge that they have geographically different locations. So I wonder if the Council of State has any idea whether the UH sector itself has come along well in how to ensure that the quality is improved through this cooperation, and what the Council of State sees himself capable of doing, for example. in order to raise the colleges that are now meeting with universities in order to achieve the same level.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e585	It's a very big and good question and it's hard to answer in 1 minute, but I'm trying anyway. The quality benefits of this are not self-evident; they come if the institutions take advantage of it. It's closer professional cooperation, that you have the opportunity to agree on common academic standards, so to speak. For some institutions it will be possible to become part of a larger unit, to be able to access more resources for, for example: to be able to respond to a need for local work or business life is a major benefit. Then it's nothing new that we have geographically dispersed campers. We already have that today. And there are several institutions that are spread across up to several campers. And then again, I believe that the institutions have to think strategically, long-term and systematically. But I don't want to go in as a state council and control the institutions in terms of the study offer they're going to have where. I see that a rather unanimous increase, at least almost, wants the institutions to do it on their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e595	There is a broad political consensus that there is a need for mergers. There is a broad political consensus that there is a need for larger trade unions in many places. At the same time, however, there is a broad political consensus that this should not be a reform to shut down places of study. We need good training throughout the country. Now the Council of State just said that he does not want to go into detail and decide which study facilities the different institutions should have in different places, but it will now largely be up to the merged university and higher education boards around making this decision. How does the Council of State see that we as responsible politicians can be involved and take responsibility for continuing to have good training throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e604	The most important thing we do is give – as the majority of parties have also done – good budgets and have clear bets and ensure that there are no bets coming just one year, and then they are gone, but that you have a long-term interest in it. So it's quite right, as the representative Tyvand says, that the starting point for this is not a campus discussion. Of course, if we're going to have education across the country, we need strong regional institutions, but we also need a decentralised offer. So my point is that it's going to go in and have a big decision on all the study offers, and where they're going to be, like. The centre party has proposed, will be a breach with the whole way we've been thinking about the governance of the university and higher education sectors. It's for the institutions. But it's a clear assumption from Stortinget that we're going to have a decentralised offer. And – to put it like that – the reason why, for example, new, larger NTNU now wants a merger with Ålesund and Gjøvik, is also to be in Ålesund and Gjøvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e613	Nobel Prize winner Edvard Moser warns against a trend towards more research performance finance. What is the Minister of Knowledge's understanding of research that Edvard Moser has not understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e618	Now I haven't discussed the finer shades of the funding system with Edvard Moser, so I really just have to take the interpretation of Edvard Moser via SV's representative. But I think we in what's being presented here now have found a good balance. I think the representative Knag Fylkesnes describes in a very good way the importance of not having a too detailed management of the basic funding – precisely because very much of the efforts of universities and colleges can go to the things they think are important. And there is a good principle that the institutions are at least as good, often better, to it than the politicians. On the other hand, it is also the case that basic funding is there as a result of political decisions over several decades. And there are several institutions, especially in the higher education sector, but also within what some call the new universities, which believe that having locked down basic funding, gives them an unreasonable starting point. Now we have found a good compromise and a good way forward by ensuring that over time the performance funding will be a slightly larger part.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e627	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e630	There is a lot of positive in the message, and there is agreement on a lot. However, there are some themes that have not been given their legal place. It concerns the definition of quality, the question of funding, and it concerns the students – those who are going to study at the institutions, who are going to meet researchers and teach every day, those who live in student homes if they are so lucky that they have a place, those who are sitting over books and lecture notes, and who hopefully also have time for a beer at the student pub. The role of students is underestimated and under-communicated in what has been presented by the government so far. Study quality is, in reality, in the second division of the long-term research and higher education plan, and the topic is scarce in the structural message. From the study barometer to NOCUT, we know that the follow-up, guidance and feedback from professionals is the point most students are dissatisfied with. We also know that 42 pst. of the students who started studying in 2001 had not completed a degree after 10 years. Study quality must be a requirement for all institutions and one of the criteria on which they are measured. If the institutions are not working on making good courses of study for the success of the students, they should be given a strong boost from accumulation and government. There must also be a good link between research and education. Government is concerned with world-leading environments and better research quality. We'll join in, but that's not enough. Yes, research quality is a basis for good study quality, but there is no guarantee of good study quality. Students have little benefit from coming to excellent research environments if knowledge is not disseminated through good teaching arrangements. It simply has little value for students to have world-leading researchers on campus if they never put their legs in a lecture hall, don't care about education or ever talk to a student. It is not that good research automatically becomes good teaching. We see from both the study barometer and the non-response statistics that it alone does not last. What we should do more is, to put it simply, to send researchers more out among students and students more in to the researchers. We need to ensure that students get insight into R & D work and that we develop the capacity for critical and independent thinking, that they are motivated to stay up-to-date after completion. It presupposes that students meet high demands, but also that they receive follow-up, guidance and feedback to meet their demands. This should have been clarified in the long-term plan and the structural communication, we believe. As a society, we have to make high demands for the students, but we have to make it possible to meet those requirements as well. It's reasonable that we give students proper follow-up, and that we give them an economy that allows them to spend more time on the reading room and less on the part-time job. Therefore, the Workers' Party will continue to propose 11 months of study funding and more student housing. But I'll also finally say that it's smart to use their money smartly. We will therefore warn against the proposal of the expert group on turbos. Although it is not part of this message, it may be on the stairs. If the Minister of Knowledge can afford to spend $12 billion. To reward those who already get it, there is a terrible misappropriation of community money. For $12 billion. not only eleven but twelve months of study funding can be introduced. You can raise the scholarship to 1.5 G, or you can build 4,200 student homes for full-time. To use a comparison of Norwegian students, it is easy to understand – at least all of the students I studied with: the amount that the Minister of Knowledge might spend on those who already have the best assumptions to complete, is the same as over 20 million pints. Otherwise, it was only when I saw that figure that I really understood why NSO said the following to the Turbos grant committee: "We need money the time we are students, not afterwards." Those who are to become future researchers, professors, engineers, doctors, nurses and doctors must be at the heart of politics. The Labour Party therefore expects the Minister of Knowledge and the Government to adopt a more offensive position on behalf of students and students.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e647	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e650	Education across the country has been a topic of debate, and local educational centres have grown up according to local needs and currently represent a great diversity in numbers, organisation, content and size. All have broad local support and cooperate closely with local businesses, municipalities and county municipalities. Here, impressive work is being done to give the people of Norway a real opportunity to take education independently of their place of residence, their situation in life and their economy. There is now a great need for change and empowerment across the country. We need measures that bring the studies where people live, which are flexible, and here the educational centres have an important role to play. They provide requested training, such as: nurses and teachers. They ensure competent labour force for public and private business while helping to raise the educational level of the population. In addition, a commitment to local training centres is an excellent regional policy instrument and has a significant impact on continued growth and development. This is a cost-effective model, and behind every produced study score there is an individual who experiences development, which is important enough in itself. For a current topic: Many municipalities are unable to invest in continuing training of teachers. Gunn Marit Helgesen said in a debate before Easter that the money that the authorities have granted for the further training of teachers is largely for travel and stays at the UH conferences around the country. In Finnmark and Sogn and Fjordane, such costs may amount to NOK 60000 per teacher, limiting the possibility of using the offer dramatically. The KS leader suggests that the networks of educational centres have been specially developed to address these kinds of challenges. They will eliminate costs, have specialised premises and technological solutions, as well as personnel with extensive experience in organising education and creating a good learning environment. And student assessments show that students are evenly satisfied with the professional quality. KS also points out that active use of training centres will bring a number of other benefits, e.g.: teachers who, for some reason, do not wish or have the possibility of frequent travel, can nevertheless avail themselves of the offer and are given flexibility in relation to the composition of student groups and cooperation. The role of centres in the Norwegian educational flora is unclear both in terms of organisation and economy. It is now important — at national level — to recognise the role of training centres, clarify the responsibilities and provide predictable framework conditions so that we can take advantage of the potential of study centres. That should have taken account of this message. Unfortunately, it doesn't. That is why the minority is promoting a proposal to this effect, which is quite possible for more people today to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e663	I will begin by reflecting on why this structural change in the higher education sector is a most necessary and timely reform. The point is that today we have a structure that stands in the way of achieving the goals we have in the sector, and what we want to achieve is high-quality education and research, robust professional environments, good access to education and competence across the country, regional development, world-leading professional environments and efficient resource use. And how are we going to do that, and why are we going to do that? This is because we need higher education and research of good quality to realise the knowledge society and because there are important driving forces and tools for the transitions facing Norway and the world. In winter, we received the first part of the Commission’s report on Productivity, which points out that Norway has a medium-sized location among OECD countries in key areas such as innovation capacity, start-up, business research and school systems. Knowledge is the main source of increased productivity. The explosion in the number of courses offered with the quality reform has not led to better quality. The Star Island Committee described a sector with many institutions where resources are spread too thinly, and this picture is confirmed by a number of international fascinations in recent years. This is why it is one of several necessary reforms in society that will help strengthen us as a nation, increase competitiveness and ensure the necessary skills to safeguard and further develop our welfare system in the future. There is something paradoxical about the criticism of the left-hand side in this matter. They criticize the government for starting at the wrong end, or for going too fast, or to forget, and to bet on everything and everyone. Then I would like to say, "Why didn't they even address these challenges when they had the power?" I would like to stress that there has been a thorough process in advance of the presentation and processing of this message. These issues have been discussed and debated and discussed in the sector for many years before the presentation of the communication we are now discussing. Some of the challenges described are that we have too many small and vulnerable professional environments with failed recruitment. Today, for example, teacher training is offered at 19 institutions, there are considerable differences in quality, and the prerequisite for carrying out qualified research is very varied. Therefore, it is good that the government should now turn teacher training into a five-year master's degree. This may mean that not all the institutions offering teacher training today will be able to continue, and therefore teacher training is one example of why it is important to make structural changes. Structural changes are, of course, not sufficient to ensure quality and sustainability. Nevertheless, a number of challenges are linked to the fact that several of our environments are too small, little research and publication, they do not claim to be sufficiently international, and they simply cannot provide the education the country's students need. It is demanding to implement structural changes, but it is necessary, and therefore we have to endure a little friction and be patient. There is broad agreement on the objectives. In conclusion, I would like to quote Bjørnstar Bjørnson, who says, ‘It causes a little fury, but peace is one of the best things, but that you want something’.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e683	In the years to come, it will be important to focus on environments where Norway has a particular strategic and competitive advantage. In this context, it is important to have the best professional training possible, not least in the field of teaching and engineering. The need for health workers is also great, and it requires increased investment. The Progress Party will show here that the majority of the parties have strengthened professional training through the budgetary comparisons in Stortinget in the last two years, and that this is a commitment that should continue. The Progress Party will point out that professional training is important both in order to maintain a well-functioning well-being offer throughout the country and in order to ensure future value creation. It is particularly important to link education and research more closely in these subjects, as the tradition for this in many cases is smaller and shorter than for many other subjects. Effective and good professional studies are important. A change in the structure of larger and more powerful units will lead to larger knowledge environments, which can carry out better research. Concentration on research is also important for the professional studies. A story I read a few years ago in the magazine Better Schools underlines the point of research-based education. A high school lecturer there said that in his time as a student of pedagogics, he had pressured the teachers into the pedagogics study on the research-based basis for their teaching. The answer he got was, "Some say it, and some say it, it's not advisable to say something certain." We have several studies that show that we also today have teacher training programmes that do not relate to empirical research. It hardly provides good professional training. The Progress Party believes that education should be expected to be based on a research-based knowledge base and believes that the measures under structural reform will contribute to this. The Party will stress that professional training should give particular priority to education policy in the coming years. It must be easy to choose a professional training course and to combine work with such training, including in the districts. It is necessary to ensure both robust educational and research environments and proximity to the different workplaces in which practical training is to take place. The specific nature of vocational training must be clearly legitimised, and this must be reflected in the organisation and management of the institutions. More practical research should be a specific objective. This serves this purpose in a good way, the Progress Party believes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e701	The matter of structure in higher education again shows the government's eagerness to centralize and get eternally larger units. Sectors by sector are broken down, good institutions are laid down or merged, and regions are lost for jobs and competences. In the last year, the Minister of Knowledge has been running a continuous fight to join the Hajskuls. The highlight of Sogn and Fjordane is no exception. Decisions by the Board of Directors are negligent, and most recently in an article in Sogn newspaper 2 June, the Minister is aware that the Højskulen in Sogn and Fjordane must be merged with another institution. In a previous reading in the same newspaper, the minister of knowledge revealed a great lack of knowledge about the so-called high school. So I'll give you some facts. In 2015, the marble had an increase of 28 pst. in the search engine number from 2014. One had an increase in the number of applicants of 125 pst between 2008 and 2015. One has an increase of 37 pst. from 2014 until 2015 when it relates to externally funded enterprise and an increase of 70 pst. from 2013 to 2014 in the case of publication. The students at the Højskulen in Sogn and Fjordane are among the best in the country when it comes to completing the study in normal time. State councils know from the State reports of the Ministry of Higher Education that the Højskulen in Sogn and Fjordane have the best implementation at the bachelor level of all state colleges, universities and scientific colleges. But there was not a word about this, either in previous readings or in what was written on June 2, just repeating the need for consolidation and aggregation, without a single argument. In a previous article in the Sogn newspaper, the Minister of Knowledge chose to bring out the degree of completion at the master level and claimed that the master students had not completed much at the normal time. That didn't work either. The Minister of Knowledge then had to go back on that in his last post and say that, unfortunately, he did not have the knowledge that he should have – when he pushes a continuous pressure to put down and put together an institution that is in the midst of a brilliant development, which delivers the goods, and which is so important for the regional development of a state that needs a hayball that can go to the front, not least when it comes to the close contact of the high school with business and businesses in its region. What will happen to the power of the high ball - if centralization and aggregation continue at the same rate as the government puts it up to? If one joins the Sogn High School and the Fjords with other and larger institutions, I fear that they may lose their right to self-determination over studies and subjects. If they miss it, they also miss the opportunity to adapt to the needs of the region. ‘If it ain’t broken, don’t fix it’ is something called. It is time for the Minister of Knowledge to take it on board. I hope today that the Workers' Party, SV, Left and Right will be clearly informed that those high-schools with good development, which are in the midst of good growth, which have good search numbers and brilliant results, will continue as independent entities and develop – for the benefit of students, students and the region that they think they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e718	Yes, we are now in the process, and there are many exciting processes going on in several regions related to the future university and higher education structure. One of the most exciting processes is in a region with nearly 700,000 people — in Buskerud, Telemark and Vestfold. The College of Buskerud and Vestfold and the College of Telemark have recently taken a merger decision, and if everything goes according to plan, the name of the new university will be ‘Study of South-East Norway’. The name says something about the national impact field of the institution, with a student figure of about 16 500 students. Nor is it a secret that the University of South-East Norway wants to become a university, such as the Agder, Stavanger, Bodø, Tromsø and Finnmark colleges have become in recent years, or as the eight colleges that receive university status after the merger processes described in the notification – without requiring any kind of accreditation. The possibilities of changing the category of institutions have contributed to the renewal and development of the higher education sector. I believe that the process that has been carried out in Buskerud, Telemark and Vestfold to date also proves. However, it is important that these processes are running smoothly and fairly, and from a regional point of view, it may seem unfair that there are now other driving rules and stricter accreditation requirements, especially when one looks at the mergers that have already been carried out and those that are being carried out right now. The University of Buskerud, Telemark and Vestfold will become a powerful educational institution, an institution that can stand up at the top of both technology and teacher education and that delivers high-level research. So I don't speak for my sick mother – I speak for my ambitious, most uphill and vital cousin. However, merger processes are demanding and there is a danger that some unnecessary duplication of effort will have to be done by carrying out both a merger process and an accreditation process. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee says that it is positive that several of the merged institutions want to change the category of institutions, and that in this context it also underlines that the NOCUT and the Department facilitate effective and flexible application processes and assessments. I interpret it as a positive signal for the ambitions of the higher schools in Buskerud, Vestfold and Telemark.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e729	Current actors in the higher education sector are not only competing regionally and nationally for future students. They are also highly competitive internationally, and increasingly so. This trend has not become applicable in the last few years. It's knowledge we've had for some years, but the picture is being reinforced by an ever cheaper opportunity to travel all over the world and by the increasing development of technology and opportunities for cross-border interaction. Of course, we have already had some structural changes in the university and higher education sectors. And today's worldview, along with future forecasts, helps to strengthen the need further. Today, when we deal with this big message and make clear ambitions for the sector, we are now helping to build on and strengthen the knowledge society and hence Norway's ability to adapt. It was interesting right now to listen to the representative Thinning Bjørnø, but the more I am surprised at the Workers' Party's opinion that this process is beginning at the wrong end, especially when we look at the good processes that have started up around the country, which are now going on too fully in my own part of the country. When we look at page 7 in the settings, the Working Party says, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘These members will have a stronger profile development and division of labour in the sector, both in terms of occupations and priorities. Even after the announced mergers, there will still be professional environments that are small and vulnerable.’ Then it is difficult to understand what the Workers' Party really believes in this matter, because they become a little ‘dark’ and sprinkling, almost as if you don't want to go into a bit of demanding debates. All changes create debate, and the starting point for these changes is not different now than when the Red-Green government directed the Ministry of Knowledge. I would assume that the focus was also on quality, interaction and more robust professional environments, but perhaps I am wrong. I guess the easiest thing is that the Workers' Party actually solves this more clearly itself. All the institutions I've been in contact with have ambitions to trigger greater synergies, strengthen the professional environments and meet the future in a more offensive way. Recently I visited Finnmark School, former Finnish University, in what is now UiT, Norway's Arctic University. Just a few years after the merger was a fact, we now see a strengthened professional environment, increased quality, more opportunities and not least a more attractive study offer. From 562 first-choice applicants in 2013, the offer at the Finnish faculty has 1,018 applicants this year. It is closer to a doubling and a clear signal from the outside world that a merger and such interaction can contribute to the positive development of an exciting region with growth and opportunities, such as Finnmark. I am happy for you and hope we can see more of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e743	If the new University of South East Norway is the representative of Thinning Bjørnøs cousin, I think that maybe I and the representative can be related without knowing about it. [[Laughter]] I absolutely share the wish that this new, great, great institution in Buskerud, Vestfold and Telemark should meet its university ambitions, and we in the Committee also give a signal to the Department and the NOKUT that we want a fastest and most effective application process when the institutions that meet the new quality requirements request a change of category, if necessary. We can also enjoy that they are very good at becoming a university. I want to say a little bit about private educational institutions. Private educational institutions are an important part of the Norwegian university and higher education sector. Some of the individuals are spearheads within their disciplines, while others contribute greatly to educating people we need in Norway, such as the United Kingdom. future nurses. But the message that we're now dealing with, does not take much into account the private educational institutions, and it's really quite natural, because this is a message that we take into account the state universities and universities, for which we have a ownership and a responsibility in that way. However, this does not mean that the changes now taking place in the sector do not affect the private sector — in no way. They are most affected by the changes that are taking place, and they must also meet the new requirements of the future, such as: in the case of teacher training. And then it's important that they become able to meet it in a good way, so that they too can contribute to good research and development in the future. Therefore, it is important that these also have access to the means of redress. They have received that, and I am pleased with the proposal that, in the revision, money should be transferred to one of the major mergers in the private education sector, where four forward-looking, good private institutions want to merge to stand even stronger. Then it is important, when the government comes back with changes in the funding system, that the private are not left out there either, but that, when we get an overview of the funding system and how the basis is structured, we also get an overview of the private sector, and that the new funding system facilitates that the private sector can also be a good and important contributor in the Norwegian education sector in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e756	Many of today's jobs will disappear, and new ones will come. In order to maintain economic activity, new businesses need to be created and the activity will depend on innovation and entrepreneurship. Knowledge of how to do this is a prerequisite for success. In this form, the country’s higher education institutions play a very important role. According to the Government, the aim of structural reform is to ensure high-quality education and research throughout the country, robust professional environments, regional development, world-leading professional environments and efficient resource use. The majority of the Committee has underlined the importance of ensuring a decentralised training offer. It's wise because there's a lot of knowledge to find across the country, for example. in my own hometown, Bodø. National surveys show that the economic training environment at the University of Northern Ireland is among the best in the country. It was also the first economic education in the country to teach entrepreneurship. And since the start of the doctoral programme in 2000, more than 50 have taken their doctorate at the School of Commerce in Bodø. The environment in Bodø has also largely established itself internationally, and their ambition is to strengthen both their national and international position through, among others, the to have a centre for excellent research. To succeed, they must demonstrate and demonstrate that they have knowledge, potential, ambitions and sufficient resources in the form of capital, their own research time and scholarship holders. And their main challenge is funding. They are affected by the fact that universities and colleges have historically had different framework conditions, and this is reflected in different basic funding. My concern here today is to thank the Committee of Wiseness for asking the government to address the issue and come back to the Storting in an appropriate way to discuss how to finance it in a more transparent way in the future. We are a small country with great ambitions. We want to claim to be at the top of the world in a lot of disciplines, not least in research and education. The Committee has pointed out that it will be difficult to say what will govern and shape the higher education sector in the future. Not least, it will be difficult to know how important innovation takes place. We have a great ambition here in the country to take greater advantage of our huge marine resources, where we have a sea area that is six times larger than the land area. In Nordland we have 27 pst. of the country's coast, and we have heavy marine competence environments. Then we have to have a system that facilitates that it will be possible for such environments to realize the ambitions that lie there. I welcome the follow-up by the Council of State to the wish of the majority of the population to review the funding system for higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e771	The rapporteur well described the background to this discussion, that education and research are key to the future, that competence is at the core of change, and that innovation and development are the answer to increased competition, environmental problems, poverty reduction and health and well-being. Building knowledge takes generations. We've been through an educational explosion in Norway over the last few generations, where higher education was reserved for the few and now has become a mass education system. It also means that these changes that we are making in the sector take time, and then there is a good deal of consensus on major issues. It is also in this treatment. There is broad support for the voluntary pooling that is ongoing in the sector, that is support for the employee principal as the main model of the governance structure, and that is also support for continuing the main features of today’s funding. But one of the reasons why there is a broad consensus on these questions, I think the message is relatively thin. As with the long-term research plan, many major questions are pushed forward into the ageing period, or into the next. There's little or nothing about funding, many have asked for it. Higher education quality reporting will only come in 2017, construction plan in the sector will only come in 2019, teacher training will only come in 2017, and there is little or nothing about culture and management down in the organisation or measures that can lead to increased student throughput. In particular, disappointment has been great in those cities that have received university status, and how especially the Right Party has promised that there is something to be done about funding. Bent Höie said in the election campaign in both 2009 and 2013 that the University of Stavanger would be funded in line with other universities. There is little in this communication, although a majority gained greater transparency in the funding system. Nevertheless, it is good that we agree. There is good welcome and good cooperation in the committee around this. A little funny, though, when, in particular, the Council of State makes it appear that it is he who has started the merger in the sector. When Gudmund Hernes started this in the 1990s, there were over 100 colleges in Norway. He reduced that to 26. Let's talk about aggregation. In the last period, the University of Tromsø, the College of Tromsø and the College of Finnmark joined forces, the University of Oslo and the University of Akershus joined forces, the College of Westfold and the College of Buskerud joined forces, the College of Agriculture and the Veterinary College joined forces, so the number of mergers and the students involved corresponds to the approximate aggregations described by the Council of State in its communication. It's good that this development continues, but we're not at the beginning of the end. Rather, we are at the end of drawing a map of what can become a permanent structure for higher education in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e782	First of all, I would like to say that it was nice that the committee leader also took the time to come to the storeroom to debate this important matter. I'm sure the committee appreciates that. But I think it's interesting that he and the Workers' Party criticize the government for not having a fully-fledged funding system clear in this message. When the Workers' Party itself was in government and was going to present a new funding system in the Stoltenberg I government, the then Minister of Education Giske, now head of the Committee, delivered a big message called the Quality Reform. The message we are receiving today follows exactly the same template as the paper on funding. At that time, no full funding model was presented, but it came into the government budget for the coming year. I think it's better that you spend a little more time on what's a complicated problem than you rush and do things halfway. Now there's going to be a process until the state budget is presented, and I'm sure the Stortinge will have good opportunity to discuss it at the time. Then I want to comment a little bit on what the other one has said. Marianne Aasen said that to say that one is betting on world-leading environments does not necessarily create world-leading environments or more workplaces. I fully agree with that. But the first step is to identify the environments in which we have the prerequisites to succeed in the world summit. We did so in the long-term plan for research and higher education, and we follow that up through the structural reform. There is no difference between focusing on the quality of the peak and the width and quality of the peak. Norway needs some excellent environments that can prevail in the world, but we also need high quality vocational training. Rather than set these two up against each other, you should work to get to both. So to the Center Party, who wants to stop or postpone the whole process. Is it then that the representative Tingelstad Wøien wants to stop the process of which the university in her own county has been a part, and which representatives of the Central Party in Oppland and Gjøvik have written positive reading articles about in the newspapers around Oppland? Is it such that the representative Tingelstad Wøien wants to stop the processes that are going on based on volunteering at the University of Gjøvik? It is not the case that this is being discussed for the first time in Stortinget or in the sector today. There have been processes that have been going on for years, without the result you really wanted. Fascination after fascination, whether from the Research Council or from NOKUT, has indicated that too many professional environments are too weak and too vulnerable. The Star Island Committee said exactly the same thing. The Star Island Committee came when the Center Party was in government. They did not agree with it then, nor did the rest of the Storting agree with everything, but now the Center Party wants to stop the whole process.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e793	I was challenged with a few questions. I start with Kent Gudmundsen, who does not fully understand what we mean by division of labour and small trade unions, that these aggregations will not lead to change. It will, of course, but that doesn't mean that if you combine two major institutions, the professional environments of the two major institutions are merged. We don't know anything about what's going to happen to that. It's not given at all. There are also large institutions – in fact the largest – that get to be completely at peace, where nothing happens. They have professional environments that are tangential to each other, and also small professional environments where there should certainly have been more to make them cooperate with others. I would also like to point out that tipping and specialization go along two dimensions, in our opinion, which I do not believe is addressed in the message. One is a profession, and the other is a different task. Now, NTNU gets institutions that do all three of these problems. They have world-leading, excellent environments, as we know, they have great, heavy professional education, and they will now get, with the colleges of Ålesund and Gjøvik, perhaps the best environments of close cooperation, R & D, with working life and business. The NTNU is going to be able to handle – and I hope they succeed – is to bet the same amount on the three main tasks. It may be hard to balance, but we want happiness and hope that it goes well. But that all the institutions in the sector are going to do just as well, I'm doubtful, because it's not being targeted enough. There'll be too many, big problems, and you can't get your resources well enough targeted. So to the representative Sivert Bjørnstad, who challenged me on this with world-leading environments. Yes, we are for it to be world-leading environments. We're going to have very good environments, and it's going to have to bet if it's going to be any of that. But that's not enough, because there are other tasks in the sector that we're afraid it won't be put on enough and that can drown in the main focus on everything being so world-leading. But I am pleased with – and I feel – that the committee has actually understood that, and that we are also giving signals that a commitment to professional training is important. It's a signal we're sending to the department. As far as the funding mechanism is concerned, I am aware of what we have written in the vote, that it would be much better if we had had all the basic documents, including this review of the basic funding, in place in this deliberation. It would have been a better way to deal with it than to add everything to the budget for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e806	It has puzzled me for a while how government thinks about research policy, and how different they think about business policy. In research policy, there is a concern to point out some areas where Norway has the right to succeed internationally. There is a willingness to make some choices. But business policy is characterised by business neutrality. There will be no position, where it will only grow by itself, bet on the market, etc. This is to Bjørnstad, who thinks it is important to point out some areas, in which I agree. This is a policy led by previous governments as well. One agrees that there are some areas where we can congratulate internationally. Why not then also transfer this to Norwegian industrial policy? It's a big cross of thought. I do not feel that any attempts have been made in this debate to respond to my challenge of how increased performance-based funding should lead to better research. The anxiety that we have among our world-leading researchers is that increasing counting, increasing results-based funding of research could reduce the quality of research. Should not these world-leading researchers then take seriously and give them a proper answer as to why believe that more results-based research should lead to better research? I must say that I am amazed that the Left Party and the Christian People's Party in particular are part of this race. And in each budget, each increase that has been in the budget since the blues took over the government power, the increase in education and research has come in the form of an increase in competitive power – i.e. at each level, increased funding through increased competitive power. So there's a strong belief that it's the result-based funding that's the way to go, but you can't do the right thing because it actually leads to better research. What researchers ask for is better frameworks, better care, less time to search, less time to publish unfinished data or results. It creates from research. So the challenge is sent. I am also surprised that one will not see the structure of higher education and research in connection with study centres in the country. If there really is an actor in the Norwegian educational flora that can make education possible for everyone in the whole country, there are educational centers around the whole country. To bet on them and draw it into a larger strategy, perhaps demanding educational institutions to provide education at the centres, it could be exciting. But it's a proposal for which there are not multiples in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e821	I'll comment on just a few things. Governments were involved with this with the basic component. The Committee has said together that we want someone to come back to it, and that seems to be a good idea. But as I've seen the council so far, he's going to show us the contents of the black box that he's talking about. There are no things said there that we're going to change the content. I have not heard that the Council of State has said anything about today, so I could well imagine that he had commented. I'm afraid it'll be the way it is today, and then funding will focus on excellence and continue the political out-of-date priority that was made many years ago. It's a challenge for colleges, and it'll be a tool to get more people to merge. There will be less chance of optimally measuring the quality indicators. We in the Center Party want quality, but we also want it to be a real opportunity to stand alone or cooperate with others. Funding is a long way to go. Then I have to answer what Mr Bjørnstad had to say. He also stated that we were alone in this matter. Yes, we're alone in this case in the Chamber, but we're actually not alone when we look at the voices that speak out in the different institutions. I think that's good. He asked if I wanted to stop the merger in Gjøvik. No, but I would like to see what you put forward in the big message that will come in 2017, about quality. I believe that there would be a benefit to the merger that is now going to take place at NTNU, in Gjøvik and Ålesund and at the University of Southern Trøndelag, that they also got to see what the government really means by quality in higher education. That is, they would have a year extra on them. I can't believe there's anything negative. I have nothing negative to say about the University of Gjøvik, and I absolutely support what the representatives from Gjøvik Senterparti write around in the newspapers in Oppland, as it has been said – there is one newspaper, but at least you write there. I wish Gjøvik and NTNU luck, but I think that the first bend, as I mentioned so far in the lineword shift here instead, is that NTNU's board said no – they wouldn't have any representatives from Gjøvik into their board. There is a taste on and say some things that mergers are not a quick-fix. You can smile and be happy, but you can't actually guarantee anything, and it can't be the Council of State on how the institutions organize themselves towards the merger. Nor is there any guarantee as to what the location structure will be like in the future. The representative Vinje pointed out that there are too many teachers. It'll be very exciting to see how that organization is going to be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e836	It has been said by several from the opposition that this matter should have come at another time, and that it has been said that it has been a back-to-front process. It made me think of an article that was in the evening post on 26 March now in ours. It had the title ‘True choice of courses for higher education’ and it reads as follows: ‘The need for changes has been evident for a long time. The explosion in the number of training offers brought about by the Quality Reform has not led to an increase in quality.’ The representative Henriksen called for the student's place in the structural message. After all, it is the students who become losers whose university and higher education sectors are not changeable and whose institutions do not adapt to new developments. Our students are entitled to a good study offer throughout the country. This is why it is important for students as well as a proper time to implement the changes in structure that are now being proposed. It is not quite easy to understand what the Workers' Party really means, and how they think you should have progressed. It is easy to criticise a process, but it is not quite up to believers when they seem to agree with the goal. The question that arises is what the Workers' Party would do differently, and – not least – what they would do to address the challenges facing the sector. For the Right and Government, the Labour Party's waiting-and-see attitude is not an alternative. Until then, the role of the sector in the knowledge society is too important. I remember what the Norwegian student organisation leader, Anders Kvernmo Langset, said in the press release on 25 March: ‘We’re quite clear that we’re going to have higher education across the country, but don’t think it needs to be our own institutions to offer it. The point is that professional environments must be solid enough to ensure that students who start their studies, wherever they may be, have a high-quality education.’ With this structural message, we address the challenges, and we're on the right track. I have noticed in the debate that one of the points the opposition has been particularly concerned about is the financing issue. So am I. I come from a part of the country where university funding has been a big struggle. That is why I am pleased that the Committee has asked for greater transparency and transparency in the funding system, and I am pleased that the difference in basic funding has been pointed out by various institutions, and that the government has been asked to address this issue and come back. Because it's through transparency and transparency that we build trust, and it's necessary to create legitimacy around economic distribution issues. Our mission is to provide good funding for the entire sector. I have great confidence that we have now moved a step further, and that the government will come back to this matter, as the Storting is suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e858	Martin Henriksen makes himself high and dark about the lack of bet on the students, and I have to answer that. The structural message is precisely a response to strengthen the offer to students in the country. It's about making institutions better able to provide a good education. In addition, the government has notified its own report on the quality of studies. Since the accession of the Right-Fremskrit party government, we have had a strong commitment to research and higher education in all the budgets submitted. I want to emphasize that this also applies specifically to the students. For example, we have amended the Student Cooperation Act, so that the students again get full participation in the management of the ships – a right they were deprived of by the Red-Green Government. Since the accession of the blue government, study aid has increased sharply in both budgets – in addition to expected price growth. It's been a lot of years since the last thing happened, and the rate of student housing is up. It's added up to build more than twice as many student homes than what happened under the red-green government. So I feel a great need to say to the students of the country too that they have to notice that there has been a government shift, because it is invested in the quality of study, it is invested in higher education, and it is invested in research.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e867	Thank you very much for the debate, and thank you very much for many good points and many good speeches, and for good consideration in the committee. There are several who point out that, as the representative of Aasen says, the Committee is also sending out some signals. Let me just say that there are, of course, things that we're following up. However, I must add that the most important signals are what the vast majority of people agree on, namely that there is a need for structural reform in higher education. Some changes in management are agreed. It is agreed, as the chairman of the Committee, Mr Giske said, to continue the basic features – the main features, he said – of today's financial system. There are important signals to the sector, and it is important for the government also to get support for it in our further work. Then the representative Tingelstad Wøien brought this up with basic funding. Every time this room conducts budgetary proceedings, it affects, in general, the basic funding of the institutions, too often in budgetary proceedings, there are different decisions. Let me do one example. Centres for Northern Territory Logistics – The University of Nordland and UiT, the Arctic University of Norway, receive some funding to operate it – basic funding. It goes into their basic allocation. I have not heard anyone call for the whole of the basic component, or the basic funding, to be rebuilt in the system by mapping and tying every single penny of the basic funding. There would be considerable uncertainty in the sector, and it would probably lead to very radical redistribution between institutions if introduced from one year to another. I believe that the Committee is concerned with the predictability of the higher education institutions, and also with the freedom of action well described by the representative Knag Fylkesnes, as a good basic component. At the same time, more information — information on the factors that have led to the development of the base. I believe that is also the answer to Mr Tingelstad Wøien's question. One thing is if the Center Party wants it, that's a total – someone has called it – decomposition, where you map and redistribute every single penny. What consequences it will have for the sector, it is quite unknown, but we have to assume that there are tens of millions moving from institution A to institution B, for example. from one year to another. I understand that the Committee is concerned with more information — greater transparency is a word you use — but that it also wants to continue the basic features and main features of today's funding system, and also says that in the long term, the basis should be a smaller part, and more should be in the competitive areas. Just as it has been said, the means of competition are not bound, in the strictest sense of the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e882	It's always fun to discuss with right-wing representatives when they feel a little bored on their toes. In her first post today, the representative Kristin Vinje, on the one hand, said that she thought it was strange that the opposition criticized the government for the government starting at the wrong end, which we believe is being done – the quality criteria should have been established first. And then she criticized the opposition for us wanting to bet on everything and everyone in our posts. The focus on students and quality of study and research relevance for students is not ‘all and all’. It's about the core of the higher education mission. When the right-wing representatives Tveiten Benestad and Vinje first talked about students, it was obviously because we had provoked them a little. I'm still interpreting what the government party representatives say so that well, we may not mention the quality of study and the role of the students, but what we do is good enough. We disagree. The fact that the government first drew the announcement of quality when they entered the government offices, and then announced a big message of quality in higher education in 2017, is not good enough. What Vinje said about student relations was wrong. What she said about student homes was at best misleading. There has been a very positive trend in student housing, in the last ten years from 2005, when the number of new student dwellings increased to 300 homes a year, to 2013, when they were up to 1,400–1,500 a year, to have now increased. It's positive. We're not satisfied until we reach the goal of 3,000 new student homes this year. Nevertheless, what is missing in the long-term plan for higher education and research, which is lacking in structural reform, is a proper mention of the quality of studies, the link between research and education and the follow-up of students and the role of students. For the time being, there is a second division of higher education policy from the government. In the end, the representative Vinje called me tall and dark. I'll have asked myself that. I will in the future be called high and red!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e897	I just want to take the opportunity to thank you for a good debate and once again for good cooperation in the Committee on this matter. I also want to join the summary that the Council of State had at all the points of agreement that go across parties and across blocks in the Storting and in the Committee. It is a strength not only for the government and the Council of State that you agree as much as you are, but also for the sector as a whole. It's a force not least for them. So it's like some nuances should and should be. I think that has come out well in the debate, although we agree on most of it. Now I'm not going to try to prolong the debate. I just want to comment on something, and it goes especially on this by order. The Structural Communication addresses the problem of small and fragmented professional environments, which is a structural obstacle to quality. In institutions and professional environments where this is a problem, it must be resolved before other measures will have a special effect. At the same time, it is already taking action that does not need to wait for a message, whether it is structure or quality, for example. enhanced requirements for admission to the teacher’s studies and national delex examinations in three professional studies. It may help to improve the quality of higher education and it is not necessary to wait until a notification comes to implement any measures at the outset of that notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e910	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded Election of the president of the set
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e916	Before we go to case no. 2, the President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sylvi Graham. – Other proposals are not available, and Sylvi Graham is unanimously elected as President-in-Office of the current sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e932	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e939	First, I would like to thank the rest of the Committee for its constructive work on this matter. The proposed treatment refers to three main areas. The first concerns the introduction of an authorisation to establish regulatory competence requirements for all teachers, i.e.: no longer grant exemptions to teachers trained before 2014. The current derogation is due to the fact that, as is known, teachers who have passed a new scheme are automatically qualified according to the competence requirements. The proposal provides for the retroactive application of the competence regulation, so that all teachers who have been trained before 2014 have to take additional training in order to gain full teaching competence. While an overall committee shares the government's ambition to raise the level of competence in school, the Committee is divided in its view of the proposed change and its consequences. I refer here to the setting, where the parties explain their views and suggestions. The central party shares the government's view of the need for action to increase the professional competence of the school – absolutely! At the same time, we believe that there is a danger that the legislative changes will have adverse consequences, which we do not believe is the answer to what we want to win. In some cases, minor schools may have major problems in meeting the competence requirements for education and helping to press for school closure. More stringent skills requirements will further increase the need for further training of teachers, which in turn will lead to an increased need for temporary workers, who often lack relevant skills, and, paradoxically, far less formal competence and real skills than trained teachers, with perhaps 20 years of experience in the classroom, who are now found to be too easy or unqualified. This way the school will have more unqualified staff in education over several years than today. It is serious when several hearing bodies point out that such a change would adversely affect the protection of teachers' position, and there is a danger that more teachers will turn away from school. There is also a proposal to clarify which decisions in the field of child protection can be taken on behalf of the child when child protection has taken over the care of the child. The Committee supports the Government's proposal. In particular, with regard to decisions relating to the professional and social development of the child, it is important to allow those who are most likely to care for the child’s interests to take the decision. The Committee agrees that these should be the main care of the child and, at the same time, allow parents to decide on the issue, which is a central part of the parental right. The third element of the proposition is the proposal to change the name of the RLE subject to Christianity, religion, life and ethics, KRLE, as well as the warning of a stronger regulation of the use of time in the subject, so that about half of the teaching time in the subject is used for Christian knowledge. As a basis for the proposals, the government refers to the strong position that Christianity has in Norwegian history, and wanted to place greater emphasis on this religion in teaching than today. For the same reason, you want to change the subject's name. As the vote shows, there is a great deal of disagreement about this proposal. The centre party believes that the proposal is unfortunate, may create new uncertainties about the content of the subject and may lead to more parents choosing to apply for exemption from their children. We think it would be very unfortunate if the government's symbolism policy led to students splitting up into a subject where there is a particular need to serve as a pooling and common meeting place for knowledge sharing, discussion and reflection. The regulation of time use will also mean that the government and the majority override the organisation of teaching by teachers and schools – contrary to the intentions of the Knowledge Promise, where the curricula are to be guided by curriculum objectives and not finely distributed on the number of hours and pages of the textbook. It is worth noting that among the hearing bodies there is a great deal of concern about the proposals. Of the 73 hearing bodies that have expressed their opinions on the proposals, a total of 40 warn against the changes, including central bodies linked to the Church and Christian activities. I also refer to the comments of the Central Party in the setting, where the party's views on the matter appear.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e975	Thank you to the rapporteur, who has maneuvered the Committee through a case that contains three different main areas. Many of us say that the teacher is the school's most important resource, and we say that because we agree that it's true. For the Workers' Party, this is primarily about having enough teachers, enough teachers who have time to give their children good learning experiences. But the teachers are not anyone; the teachers are educators and academics. Being a teacher is a profession that a person learns, but the teaching profession is also a profession that a person develops in. You learn as long as you live – a somewhat sweaty expression, but no less true for that reason. One learns through both continuing and continuing training – which we have worked on together and across policies – and through learning in more informal channels, through the working practices that learn, through course, through peer-based learning, and through being generally awake in view of the development of the subjects in which it is taught. It is difficult to measure teacher competence only in terms of study scores, but when we decided in 2012 that teachers should have competence in the subjects they teach, we measured it for one reason – it was about ensuring that teachers had a professional platform to build on. In view of this, we support in the proposal that the competence requirements apply to all teachers who teach in the defined subjects. However, we do not agree that the requirements should only be met by taking a higher education course with credits. Here we believe that the government has a narrow focus on competence. For this reason, we have proposed that teachers with teaching skills should be given the opportunity to be evaluated on a real basis in order to meet the new requirements. In our view, the proposal from the civil parties that we do not want to rule out the possibility for teachers to take examinations without further training is too vague, not in one word. We will ask the government to follow closely how the new requirements work out there, not primarily in relation to the study score development, but in relation to whether they cancel out. Therefore, the 10-year period set for the fulfilment of competence requirements is not the most important, but rather the ability we have to assess and adjust the efforts and mechanisms of the en route requirements over the 10-year period, so that as much as possible falls well under the requirements. So over to the proposals to reintroduce the K in the RLE subject and clarify the management of the time use in the subject. Actually, you don't have to do this much, because rarely has a case been clearer, rarely has the advice from the professional community been so unambiguous, rarely has the historical development shown more clearly what is the right way. After ten years of unrest about religious education in school, we have now calmed down. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that this calmness be maintained. Today, there is an acceptance and common understanding of the subject in almost all camps, and remember, we went from a situation where many sought exemption from a schooling profession, to the fact that everyone now feels included. And much of the reason for applying for an exemption a few years ago, was just about elements of what the government now wants to reintroduce. I would like to emphasize most strongly the value of the fact that there is trust and common understanding around a subject that is just designed to create trust and understanding. I also want to warn against a practice in which we from Stortingets go in and detailed control how much time each teacher in each classroom will spend teaching in different parts of a subject. There's a reason why in this hall we don't say that a teacher has to use 30 pst. of natural science lessons in the 9th class of biology, 30 pst. on physics and 40 pst. on chemistry. We adopt the overall objectives, and the teachers themselves must be allowed to determine how they spend time in their class in such a way that as many of the students as possible reach the goals that we have defined. The Labour Party is therefore – like parents, teachers, trade unions and I think I dare say the vast majority of social voices – to agree that this is an unwise proposal. I will take up the suggestions made by the Workers' Party together with others in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e996	The representative Christian Thinning Bjørnø has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e999	There is every reason, like the previous speakers, to thank the case rapporteur for handling a difficult matter – because there is a pooling of proposals, and we are a committee that has had a lot to do in the last few weeks and months. Then there is also reason to thank the rapporteur for getting this through in a good way. There are two themes in the overall proposition that have created the most debate. Teachers are required to have competence and to have a retrospective effect, and that is the change in the RLE subject to the KRLE subject. The four cooperation parties that form the basis of the Right-wing-Fremskritspart-government also ensured a change of pace for the Teacher Lift when the government was taken over. As many have said, but perhaps not all of them are acting on, so the teacher is the most important factor in the students' learning. No other decision or action we take can compensate for the good teacher in the classroom and the magic that happens with a good educator who lifts a student professional. Good teachers shall be able to conduct class management and pedagogy, but in addition they shall also have competence in the subjects in which they teach. The continuing training commitment of the four cooperation parties through several budgets is a promise that also responds to the teachers’ own demand for this promise to come. This is why only in 2015–2016 5 500 teachers will receive the continuing training as under the previous government only approx. one third of the teachers received. There is a sharp increase that – once again – many have talked about, but that we are implementing. So it is that the school debate often experiences the discussion of how to implement national policies as long as the municipalities are the school owner and employer for the teachers. I think what we see here is a very good example of how it is possible to pursue national school policy, even though the municipalities are school owners with the counties. But that also means that we make some demands on the municipalities as the school owner. When we say that this is a competence requirement that should apply not only to newly-trained teachers, but also to those teachers who are already in school, it is a very clear requirement for municipalities to provide teachers with what they themselves have asked for, namely continuing training. It is also the case – as the representative Thinning Bjørnø had in mind – that you are afraid that real competence will become less important. Well, first of all, I think we can say with certainty that when this is something that is to be phased into ten years, one will follow this development quite closely. But I'm very afraid already to begin to hollow out the demand that we make to the school owners to give the teachers they have employed in their schools, the level of competence they have to get. This was a requirement that was quite obvious to everyone to be introduced to newly educated teachers. It is of course right for, but we think it is a requirement that should also apply to teachers who are already in school. So to the case of changing the RLE subject to the KRLE subject. It is worth remembering that when the red-green government removed the 55 pst requirement as at the time was in the KRLE subject – that is, 55 pst. The teaching was to be about Christianity – also said the minister of knowledge from the then government from the pulpit here in Stortinget that even if one removed the frontier, it would not mean a reduction in the amount of Christianity to be made up of the subject. Then, when we get new reports that the practice has begun to become very different in different classes, I believe that it is within that, as a big thing, we confirm what was also the message of the previous government, namely that the proportion of Christianity in the RLE subject – which is now the KRLE subject – should not go down. There's a lot of good arguments to do this. So Norway is becoming an increasingly multicultural society. One of the things it involves is that people come to Norway who have religion as a much more important part of their lives than many Northmen have. Norway is one of the most atheistic countries in the world, and that means that religion and the execution of religious rituals, for example, do not constitute an important part of the lives of many people in Norway. But now we not only get immigrants who are Muslims, Buddhists or Hindus, we also get very many who have religions within Christianity that experience this as important. I am absolutely convinced that to have tolerance and understanding of the religious expressions of others one must also know the history of one's own cultural history and religion. Even if you are not a believer yourself, the place of religion and Christianity in Norwegian society will be obvious. Therefore, it is also an important part of the RLE subject that it now becomes KRLE, so that Norwegian students learn – not something instructive, but actually about the place of religion in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1025	Would the representative like to include the proposal of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1028	That's what the representative wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1033	The representative, Henrik Asheim, then addressed the proposal to which the President referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1036	I too would first of all like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and good cooperation. As others have said before me now, it is constantly repeated that the teacher is the most important teacher for the student's learning, and that good teachers are safe on their own knowledge of the subjects in which they teach, and master their subject so well that they are able to vary the teaching according to the student's needs. The results of a 2014 survey show that many teachers do not have depression in the subjects in which they teach. Despite this, today’s school only demands that teachers who were trained in 2014 or later have to be immersed in a subject. If we had not decided today that all teachers who teach from the first grade and up, should be immersed in the basic subjects in which they teach, this would have meant that there would not have been any demands on teachers who will be teaching in school for many years to come, perhaps for decades. The last time the Storting adopted changes in teacher competence was in 2012, when the Red-Greens decided that no requirements were to be imposed on teachers who had been trained before 2014. This requirement should also not apply in small-scale secondary schools. That is why I am pleased that the Workers' Party has now changed its mind and that they now support the qualifications of teachers. The Progress Party then expressed our disappointment that the Red-Green politicians had no greater ambitions on behalf of the teachers. The progress party has ambitions and expectations for both teachers and students in the school, so I am very pleased with the decision we are making today, which is clear that the teachers should have relevant professional competence in the subject in which they teach. At the same time, the majority parties ask the government to open the way for teachers who are in school today to assess their real skills and to take exams without participating in further education. This shows that the government thinks and acts as a whole, and the proposal must be seen in the context of the government's historical commitment to continuing training for teachers. This matter is also about something as important as clarifying which decisions child protection can take on behalf of the young people for whom they have taken care. The Party welcomes the final clarification of the division of responsibilities between child protection and parents in school context and considers, in line with the findings of the hearing, that parental rights are well respected. For the Progress Party, it is very important that school and child protection have high ambitions on behalf of children in terms of school outcomes. A report by Rambøll has identified attitudes to schooling for children and young people with child protection measures. The report gives cause for concern. It shows that almost half of child-restraint workers have low expectations for child-restraint education and that one in five school employees have lower expectations for child-restraints than for other children. The Progress Party believes that child protection children deserve better. The party believes that students must meet with confidence and expectation, regardless of their social or family background. Children and young people with child protection measures have the same basic prerequisites for success in schooling as other children. Students shall not be judged on the basis of their background; they must be treated as independent individuals with hope for the future, ambitions and expectations. As I said, the Progress Party believes that we are making a right decision today. In addition, we have expectations that the government's commitment to strengthening the school and education situation of children in child protection will result. This proposition also contains suggestions for changing the name of subject religion, view of life, and ethics to Christianity, religion, and view of life. In addition, the curriculum is made clear by approx. half of the teaching time shall be used for Christianity. The party of progress is in favour of this. The school is both a learning arena and a learning arena, and the Christian cultural heritage is embedded in history, literature, art and our philosophy. Teaching in our cultural heritage stimulates all-sided formation and gives room for wonder and reflection on important religious, ethical and philosophical-cultural issues. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the subject should not be a publicist and that the content of the subject should not be altered. The Progress Party believes that the new KRLE subject will provide a clearer understanding that Norway has a Christian and humanistic cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1066	Now we're dealing with a proposition that contains several different suggestions, and I'll first say a little bit about the proposed changes in the RLE subject. These changes are based on the introduction of a national provision for Christianity to be about half the subject. There has been a provision in the past that Christianity should be 55 p.m., but the red-green government removed this provision. At that time, the objectives of competence in the subject were not changed, and the then Minister of Knowledge, Bård Vegar Solhjell, of SV, was clear that there would still be a need to spend as much time on Christianity as before. Even now, we don't change the goals of competence in the subject, but we're re-entering a rule that's more rounder than the old one, that Christianity should be about half. It has been a broad political consensus that Christianity should have a greater share of the subject than other religions, and it is simply about the importance that Christianity has had for the development of the society in which we live. Knowledge of Christianity is an important key to understanding Norwegian society. The proposed changes in the subject do not imply a change in the nature of the subject. There is no need for the subject to be informed in any way or for the training of faith to be returned to the school. RLE, or KRLE, as it is now called, should still be a knowledge-based orientation subject, and it should be a common subject where students with different religious backgrounds should be able to meet and learn about their own and others' beliefs, different life views and ethical reflections. Knowledge of faith is important for building understanding and respect between people. Therefore, it is important that teachers too have knowledge of faith and outlook on life. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to mention also the consensus between the majority of the parties that KRLE subjects are to be introduced as a compulsory part of teacher training, as part of the common education and learning profession. This will help all teachers in the future to have a basic knowledge of the field, and hopefully an increased understanding of the students they are going to work with. This is becoming increasingly important in a school where the student population is becoming increasingly multicultural and multireligious. With regard to the change of name, I believe it is natural that the subject is given a name that reflects more closely the content of the subject. So over to the teachers' qualifications: the Christian People's Party is concerned that we should have competent and professionally strong teachers in the Norwegian school. That is why we are pleased that the Stortinget has strengthened the demands for professional immersion for newly educated teachers, and we also believe that the focus on continuing education is positive, and that it will contribute to a level of competence among the teachers who have been employed for a long time in school. However, it is problematic to require that a teacher who has completed an officially approved education, who has received an official approval stamp to be able to teach at school, and who has worked in the job for many years, be able to receive further training in order to continue his job. I think it's fundamentally problematic, I think it's an economically unreasonable priority, and I fear that it will help some good teachers lose their motivation and choose to leave the teaching profession. And that – I mean – we can't afford it. Although it should be possible to make provision for each school, it is not certain that it will mean so much for the individual teacher. And if a math teacher at a high school who has been granted a dispensation has a desire to change employer and work at another school instead, it may be natural that the new employer will look first and foremost at candidates who meet the formal requirements, so that they do not operate on a dispensation. This could therefore weaken the mobility of teachers, and that is not good. Nor does the proposal take into account the fact that a teacher who has worked for many years at school in teaching a subject has gained a lot of real competence. The representative, Thinning Bjørnø, said that you learn as long as you live, and even said that it was a bit of a sweaty word. It may not be much less sweaty to say that you learn as long as you have students, but I think that's also true. I therefore believe that if these requirements are introduced, provision should be made for teachers who have been trained before 2014 to have an opportunity to have their actual competence assessed and, if necessary, an opportunity to take an examination — without participating in the education. And then the proposal that we're behind is already taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1093	It's already taken up, so it should be all right.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1096	I'm glad we've got a proposition that's as clear as this in terms of the desire to strengthen the teacher's competence. It is important to have formal and relevant competence in the subject of education, it must be important for all students. We cannot divide the student group into two and say that for some it is important that they have teachers with competence in the subject in which they teach, while for others – whether because they live in rural areas, or because that municipality or the city did not get it – is not that important. This is important for all students, and it is our job to make sure that all students get a teacher who has competence in the subject in which he teaches. It's about having teachers who are motivated and who can impart knowledge to their students. We have a lot of good teachers in school today, and if we want everyone to have formal competence in the subject they're teaching, it's also our job to make sure that it's arranged so that everyone can take the training they need to get that competence. I consider this a matter of pleasure, because it also obliges us to follow up on the job we have already started in terms of continuing and continuing training. Many have been working in school for many years, and many have already had good skills. It's not necessarily the same way that everyone has the same benefit from the education that you have to follow. That is why I am very pleased that we have now made a proposal in which we ask the government not to rule out that one can take the exam without having followed the teaching – then to meet the requirements that have been imposed. I think you have to have some flexibility about how to get there. It can't just be one way. I would like to briefly link a few words to the K in the new KRLE subject. There is hardly any secret that this is a matter left has not been a strong follower of. We think the RLE subject has worked well and should have wanted it to continue as it was. But we've made an agreement with the government parties and the Christian People's Party, and that's what we're dealing with. Once it has been so, I think we have got a good device on this. It's good that we don't now say at least 55 pst, but that we say about half, because that gives flexibility to those who are in school. It is important that we clarify that it should not be a preaching profession, although I perceive that there is no disagreement about it either. It is good that we should continue to focus on knowledge of faith and vision of life, and that there should be a great deal of room for reflection and discussion in the field. Not least, I think it is good to focus on this in teacher training, because we have a multicultural society, which is becoming increasingly diverse. Then knowledge of faith and outlook is an important part of the students' everyday lives, and it is important that teachers have competence in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1109	RLE is an important subject. In addition to learning about the great world religions of Christianity, Islam, Judaism, Buddhism and Hinduism, and about life-seeing humanism, freedom of faith and religious criticism, the subject will contribute to dialogue on the beliefs, outlook and respect for the life-view of others. The subject is also important because it addresses fundamental philosophical and ethical questions and reflects on the theme related to identity, human dignity, life and death, right and wrong. The RLE subject is a subject where students can discuss issues that are important and difficult in youth: relationships, family, friends, togetherness, homosexuality, sexuality. RLE is a very central subject to meet the school's objective: that students can develop knowledge and attitudes to master both social life and their own life, that students should learn to think critically and act ethically, that education should promote learning and creation and counteract all forms of discrimination. When you were going to change an important subject like RLE, how would you go about doing that? Perhaps a start should be made by asking teachers, elephants and academics about how the subject works, and engaging in dialogue with them to hear about something that could be done differently – and making the subject more relevant, up-to-date and stronger in collaboration with these environments. The way the government and the Minister of Knowledge deal with the RLE subject is almost unbelievable. I hope, for God's sake, that this is the last time that we in Stortinget have witnessed such a lack of knowledge about a subject in school. The government will introduce the K in KRLE and increase Christianity its place in the subject. Those who are going to teach in the subject and who are organized in the Federation of Education and the National Association of Schools say no. No is said by those who are to train the teachers, as the Faculty of Education at the University of Oslo and the Institute of Teacher Education and Education at the University of Tromsø. The students of pedagogics – future teachers – say no. A long line of colleges and universities, such as NTNU, Oslo University and Akershus University and Bergen University, say no. The research environment around RLE – National Professional Council for Christian and Religious Science, Norwegian Religious Educational Research Forum, National Multicultural Training Centre – says no. Parents, represented by the Parent Selection for Primary School, say no. The gender equality and discrimination ombudsman says no. Nevertheless, the Minister of Knowledge takes the initiative and skips all professional advice. It is a completely unacceptable way of driving professional development and disrespectfully towards teachers, researchers and the professional community. Suppose one had done the same thing, and accepted it, in subjects such as Norwegian or mathematics – that the government, contrary to all professional advice, suggested introducing more algebra and less differential equations. The RLE subject can clearly be used as a political battlefield, as a pure instrument for better co-operation on the part of citizens. The representative from the left admitted it. The left was actually opposed, but because of the agreement they entered in for this. This is how a game can be played with the students 'heads. This is how a game can be played with subjects in Norwegian school. This means that there are a few very few people who decide which elephants around the country are going to be involved in the timana – people without any professional legitimacy at all. It's just sad. So now there's going to be more Christianity in the school. Then there will be less time for other things, such as ethical reflection, life-vision dialogue and questions of life and death. That change is being made in 2015 in a country with ever-increasing loss of life. It's a priority I think very few young people will understand. And to put it this way: the asso-argument of cultural heritage – no professional bodies have called it the epitome.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1124	There are major changes going on in order to strengthen the basic wall of school, and they are interrelated. As of 2017, we aim for a new master's programme for teachers. There is another step away from the idea of the general teacher – the general teacher who could enter any classroom and teach in any subject, almost at any class stage. We want to strengthen the teacher – the teacher who is a good teacher, and the teacher who has a safe and sound professional basis with him and behind him. We've had a massive investment in further education, almost a triple the number of places – why? It's not because the study credits themselves are important, but because the professional stuff, gathering with other colleagues, getting new ideas and getting updates on what's happened in the field are important for developing in the profession, and it's important to develop as a teacher. Then there are skills requirements, where we say that if you teach in Norwegian, math and English, you also need to get deeper in those subjects, and there's a similar bet on the teacher, on professional content and weight. Then it's a matter of course when you impose such a requirement on everyone in school, that you have to follow developments closely. The law now in force will ensure that regulations lay down requirements for the relevant competence in the field of education. It will be clarified that this will apply to mathematics, English, Norwegian, Sami and Norwegian sign languages in primary school. We imagine a ten-year period to introduce this – why? Is it because the government is not more ambitious? No, it's because we have to relate to the world of reality out there. There's a point that if we were to try to do this in two years or three years, which initially wouldn't be against me, there would be too many temporary staff in classrooms, and it could go at the expense of those who are in school now. But at the same time, there's a clear and clear message to school owners out there that the bulk of the population is betting on subjects, and I'm very happy that there's a broad majority to introduce the skills requirements proposed by the government. We are also tightening up by already closing an exception arrangement. We continue the general rule of exception, the possibility of exemption, as it is often referred to as, and then we have to assess when and how it should be closed. With regard to the decisions the child protection service may take on behalf of the child when the child protection service has taken over the care of the child, I will not comment further, because there is a broad consensus on this in the committee. So to change the name RLE to KRLE. KRLE – and for that matter RLE – is not the subject of Christians. It's not the Norwegian Church's profession in school. It's our common religion, life - vision and ethics. I find it strange that the representative of the SV explicitly argues as if more attention to Christianity should go at the expense of ethical reflection, as if it were to know something about and learn more about the dissident largest religion in Norway, the one who has shaped Norwegian culture and Norwegian history more than any other religion – almost more than any other philosophical direction, if you would look at it that way – the fastest growing religion in the world, the largest religion in the world and the religion that also belongs to very many of those who come to Norway, would mean a contrast to ethical reflection. I don't understand. I also find it strange – all the time several have taken it up – that it was so clearly underlined by the previous government that removing the requirement of 55 p.m. would not mean less time spent on Christianity. Nevertheless, it is important that the bulk of the population again determines some absolutely undisputed things, namely that this is not a preaching profession. It does not mean becoming a Christian or practicing a particular religion. It's a course that's the same as all the other subjects in school. Nor shall Christianity be treated qualitatively differently. It also means that in the Christian part of the KRLE subject there is room for both ethical reflection and criticism of practices that have been carried out in the name of religion, as it must also be in the other areas of the subject. I would also like to stress that we do not propose any changes in the content of the subject. The good teacher still has good and great opportunities to see the different objectives of competence in the context, and thus also gain attention to comparing Christianity with other religions and concepts that have been important to us, or that may become important to us in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1155	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1158	The RLE subject has been proposed to be changed without a complete understanding of why. For consultation within the Committee, there was clearly massive resistance and warnings from teachers, students, parents, stakeholder organisations and not least from an overall professional environment. Nevertheless, the Council of State proposes that the RLE subject should be renamed, and it will be decided in this room to make clearer the amount of time that teachers will spend on teaching in parts of the subject, which we initially agree are the curriculum objectives to define. In addition, considering the history of the subject, with disagreements, divisions and exemptions, you can see how unwise these proposals are. What I am asking is: What does the Council of State think is wise in this proposal – so wise that it trumps both the experiences of history and the warnings of students, teachers, parents and the professional community for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1163	One technical thing first: it's not a decision in this room that says you should spend about half the time – it's a regulation. So that's just the name of the subject that's being treated right now. I think it is reasonable, as I also mentioned on the platform, that what is the most dissident religion in Norway, what is the most desperate religion and thus the religious mindset in the world, and also, based on a lot of statistics, the fastest growing religion in the world – and has influenced Norwegian history for 1,000 years – has a large and central place in our profession, not because one has to preach, not because one has to be uncritical, but because knowledge of Christianity is important. Then I also see that many of the hearing bodies are concerned that this will cause concern in the profession. That is why I am very pleased that the head of the Workers' Party, Jonas Gahr Støre, has contributed to less uncertainty and anxiety by saying just a few weeks or months ago that he did not see for himself to remove the K in KRLE if the Workers' Party would come to power again in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1172	This case and the RLE subject are too important for me to hang out with technicalities. I was in no way wiser by the Council of State's response, and therefore I have to drill a little more. The Council of State proposes – whether it is here or there – to better control the time spent by teachers in teaching parts of the RLE subject. Does the Council of State mean that he does not trust the academic and pedagogical assessments of how much time he or she is going to spend in order for students to achieve their curriculum goals? And will the Council of State propose the same governance in other disciplines?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1177	Governments will not propose the same governance in other disciplines, but the RLE subject also has a story to tell that there was a demand for how much time would be spent on Christianity. As far as I remember, it was more detailed from 2005 to 2008 than the requirement we are now making, which says 'about half'. We do so with great confidence in the Norwegian teaching community and in what becomes KRLE teachers throughout the country, but I would also like to say that there is a hint that you should not spend too much time on one part of the syllabus. Then I also think it's worth repeating that many people have been worried that this is going to cause a lot of anxiety around the subject. That is why I think it is very positive when Jonas Gahr Støre has said so clearly in several media that he does not see fit to change the KRLE subject back to RLE if the Workers' Party was to take over the government power in 2017. It just contributes to a kind of calm and stability around this subject that I think is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1184	I'll go over to a slightly different matter. That was the first case in the proposition, on competence requirements, as the Left called a ‘smooth’. I would rather say that there may be a matter in which the purpose sanctifies the medium. Now we are in the Center Party – together with the Christian People's Party – the only ones who are against saying "retroactive force"; I also hope SV is with us, at least. But the content of that paragraph will mean that there are many teachers qualified today who will be unqualified. In other words, a general teacher who has worked at school in e.g. 20 years of English and qualified, will no longer be qualified. I wonder if the Council of State thinks it will be better quality for the students in transition, as he has said for ten years, with a fresh student from high school than with a teacher with too few credits, but with 20 years of experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1192	There is a type of qualification to be a teacher, and this is about the competence requirements in specific subjects: Norwegian, mathematics and English – Norwegian with sign language, Sami, etc. I see the representative's questions as relatively rhetorical. Clearly, many good teachers in Norway today do not necessarily have credits for their studies. But I think it's a little strange that you should present it in ten years to get further education – that you should take a year when you work less, you have reduced working hours, you should gather with other colleagues at an educational institution or maybe even more locally, and you should get new professional input, you should get up to date on your subject – that it should be presented as a sort of threat to Teacher Norway, I cannot understand. Having said that, I fully agree that it is absolutely necessary when we are making such an important and big change as we are now doing, to follow developments carefully – if it should show up individual examples like the one the representative mentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1201	The Minister of Knowledge says that it is very important to have more Christianity in school to take care of the Norwegian cultural heritage. At the same time, there are no professional bodies that I've got with me, who have said something of the same thing, and it's possible I've missed something here. We can't have a situation where the ideas of a minister of knowledge decide what content should be in Norwegian school. Can the minister solve for me and at any rate consider one professional body other than the minister himself who thinks that we now need to get more Christianity in school to take care of Norwegian cultural heritage?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1206	Now I just have to protest a little at the wording of the question. Firstly, there is nothing in the proposal about half that suggests that there must be more. The recent time-use survey on the subject, which was a few years ago, showed that there was a great deal of excitement in the amount of time spent on Christianity. In some places it could be 60-70 pst., in some places it could be 30-40 pst. So about half makes it a guide and a pointer to it, that's a requirement for it, but not necessarily more everywhere. Then I fully agree that there has been opposition in the consultation round, but again I would point out that many point out that the changes themselves are not problematic, but they are concerned about new concerns in the subject. And there all the parties on the Stortinget can contribute by not painting this as anything more than it actually is. The content of the subject does not change, the objectives of competence do not change, the exemption rules become exactly the same as before – in other words, this is an RLE subject. There's two changes, that's the name and that's about half.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1213	After all, we are not on the Stortinget, which calls for opposition to this proposal – all professional bodies say no to reintroduce KRLE and that about half of the subject should be about Christianity. Then it's the minister who makes up this argument with cultural heritage, which he doesn't answer to where it comes from. We just have to assume that it comes from the minister's own head, and that's a pretty scary way to develop Norwegian school. I go on, when we still don't get an answer to that question, to the question of ethical reflection. Yes, there are many possibilities for ethical reflection through Christianity, but does the minister think that an ethical reflection in Christianity should now be based more on Christianity?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1220	No, I don't mean that, but I heard the representative's posts, where he meant and said straight away that if – as the representative formulated it – there was more room for Christianity, there would be less time for ethical reflection. That contradiction I can't see. So it's like almost always when I'm in the Storting, I want the credit too much. But taking credit for the concept of the Christian cultural heritage, so I can't do that. That it is something that I as the Council of State should have invented, a thousand-year history in Norway with Christian cultural heritage, that it should not have been used until it appears as a justification for having a subject with a little bit more space within Christianity, I can unfortunately not take credit for that. So revolutionary probably hasn't been my Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1227	No one claims to do so, and the answer from the Council of State was probably more of a rhetorical blow than an answer to what I asked questions about. Ethical reflection is best when you can do it on a free basis. You can do it on the basis of Christianity, you can do it on the basis of sexuality, you can do it on the basis of other types of religions, life views, etc. When the minister says that there is a lot of ethical reflection in Christianity, he says that it should take place from ethical reflection with another type of starting point. My question is about the amount of the subject here, because after thinking a little bit about it, I find it a little bit surprising that there won't be any more Christianity. Can the minister guarantee that there will be no more Christianity in school with this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1234	No, I can't guarantee it, simply because the reasoning is that in the recent time-use survey we had, there were big differences in how much emphasis was placed on the objectives of competence that were about Christianity, which are also quite broad objectives of competence. It's not the history of the Bible these objectives of competence are about, it's about the Christian cultural heritage, it's about Christian effect history, it's about shadow pages and positive sides, and it's about mission history, for example. – a number of things. There is probably a more fundamental disagreement between the representative Knag Fylkesnes and me that is not just that we are now following an agreement between the four cooperation parties. The representative says that one reflects best on ethical issues on a free basis – I believe that one needs a foundation wall to reflect on ethical issues, and that foundation wall does not have to consist of one religion, it does in very few societies, but an important part of our ethical base wall, historically, has been Christianity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1241	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1246	I note that it is an overall committee, and it is gratifying that the division of responsibilities between child protection and parents is now well taken care of. But it deserves to be clarified on this pulpit, because we know that children with child protection are getting worse at school and they're getting worse healthier, and there might be some reasons for that. When the Rambøll report realizes that child protection expects less of children's protection, and that school employees do the same thing, but to a lesser extent than child protection, I think it's interesting to see it in perspective with other issues, among other things. school bullying and child bullying. What's so serious is that it's adults that stigmatize. We have to stop stigmatizing child-restraints. Child-restraint is an ordinary child who has normal dreams. They will also achieve results, they will also win. And then we have to help them become winners. Then the school has a responsibility, and of course child protection. One reads about issues in the media, from 2013, where the principal says that children's protection is unwanted in their school, and child protection in the eastern part of the country experiences — among other things. in the 2013 Address Paper – that when they contact the school, it is not entirely desirable for the children to enter that school. If it's an experience, adults, school principals and principals have a responsibility to get rid of that attitude. If we're going to get results in school, we're going to have to focus on just that: let kids be children, and let school students be students, not stigmatizing groups. I am also pleased that a strengthening of the budget has just been put into the budget to increase competence in this, both in child protection and in school. Then, as a legislative assembly, we must also ensure that it is followed up and increased pressure also in the municipalities. We can't have it that way that we stigmatize child-restraints. If we're going to get them up, we're going to have to cheer them up, everyone, everyone. I don't think children's protection want to be put in a booth or in a group either. None of us want that. We want to be part of the community. We want to achieve our goals. We want to be winners in each of our fields, in each of our fields. Then we have a responsibility, and I sincerely hope that this assembly will contribute to it: lifting them up and cheering them up, all of them, and ending stigmatizing, and ending feeling unwelcome at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1259	The name change from RLE to KRLE is an important change, because it gives a more precise description of the subject. It also gives a clear signal of the content of the subject, both to publishers who are required to make textbooks, to teachers, to students and to parents. Now, when we reintroduce the emphasis of time spent on Christian education, it is because we believe it is important to get thorough knowledge of our history of faith and tradition. Christian faith has largely influenced the whole of Norwegian society for hundreds of years. It's also a central part of our society today, to which most of the Norwegian population have some relationship. That Christianity has an important role to play in cultural heritage is probably not something the minister of knowledge has invented in his own head. There are also several hearings which have affected this in the hearing. Among other things, I can mentioned the municipality of Arendal. The aim of the subject is to create learning and inclusion. Getting to know Norway is also getting to know our traditions related to faith — yes, it is the key to understanding important parts of Norwegian culture. When we know the meaning of our own religious tradition, we are also able to understand how important it is to others with faith and the meaning of it. Finally, I would like to remind you that in history and social sciences, it is quite natural that Norwegian history is the focus – in the social field, that Norwegian society is also the focus. Similarly, it is natural to learn the most about what has happened and which is largely a Norwegian tradition of faith. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that the decision that we are going to take today will be an important change for future KRLE education. I myself am a teacher and a worker in Norwegian school – and I am happy to get to grips with KRLE education.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1272	It is good that there are some advantages to being the case rapporteur. Then one can kind of take the word sometimes. I'll try not to prolong the debate. I just want to thank the Chamber for a good debate, but I just have to comment on what the Council said in its statement, that he wants to go away from the general teacher, at least as I perceived it. I just want to remind you that there are a lot of people teaching in Norwegian school today who are general teachers, and there are also a lot of people teaching in subjects in which they do not have the skills. What I'm reacting to is that when the Council of State says that competence in the Norwegian, math and English subjects is very important, it means that there are other subjects that are not so important. Then I just want to remind the hall that we have seen numbers from the SSB that say that 70 pst. by teachers under 30 years of age who teach practical and aesthetic subjects, do not have one single point of study in the subject in which they teach. We're getting fatter and fatter, and there's fewer and fewer who have competence in food and health. 60 pst. Norwegian males are obese. Then I would like to ask the question: What is most important? Is it English, or is it to have competence in food and health? It has been important for Norway to have the general teacher, and it is important in several contexts, but not least for one to be able to teach in very many small places around the country. I understand that there are a lot of people who disagree with the definition of what a small school is -- it's very different from one county to another. But we know that Sogn and Fjordane have many small schools, and we know that the results there are good. I think it's very important that we have the general teachers and do not underestimate their competence, and that's what we're afraid of when we say that it should have retroactive force in this context. It's not the teachers that it's a threat to, as the Council of State was in on its contribution to me – it sounded as if it were a threat to the teachers that they were to receive further and further training. I am not afraid that the teachers will receive continuing training. I think a lot of people are going to enjoy it. Someone's going to get it too. It's the students we're worried about. We're afraid the students will get a worse offer. We also believe that it is wrong to disqualify someone who has competence and education today, when we say at the same time that it is okay not to have competence in other subjects. Thank you for the debate, I would like to say. I also want to send a greeting to the representative Stordalen, who made a good contribution, I think, about children's protection and their situation in school and that it is important that we are also concerned about it in this committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1290	In fear of prolonging a debate and a day that will be long, I will try not to provoke too much. Christianity has a central role and place in today’s RLE – a very central place and role. It reflects the importance of Christianity in Norwegian society and in Norwegian culture and history – sufficiently. It means all the colleges about this. Everyone who thinks it's too small, probably hasn't gotten involved in what it's like in school today, or maybe haven't taken it to all of these professional bodies who can do this. So they think it's a good idea not to make any adjustments to this subject. Still, one does. Where does it come from? It's from one party. Not from the Christian environments, but from one party. One party wants this discipline to be adjusted. And as the left said, it was actually they, but let go, one of them got so much else in the government agreement. That's how a Norwegian school develops. And that means I'm a shame. You can't keep that in Norway, neither in the past, in the future or today. It is simply a shame that all the professional advice in such a large subject in the Norwegian school can be easily ignored and just run through your own arrangements. I strongly warn against this in the future, and I think it is a pity that this is happening today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1301	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1315	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Government 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1326	This case concerns changes to the private school law. As the rapporteur on the matter, I would like to begin by thanking the Committee on Cooperation in the examination of this matter. The various parties agree very much on school policy. It is an overall committee that expresses that the public school is and will be the support pillar of the Norwegian school system. But there is also an overall committee that points out that through international conventions Norway has committed itself to the rights of parents and the ability to choose a different school offer for its children from that of the public, and an education that is in line with its own religious, moral and philosophical beliefs. Then there are different opinions in the Committee on some aspects of post-school policy, such as changes in the basis of recognition and changes in the name of the law. I will now prepare for the view of the Christian People's Party on this matter. The parental right is the starting point for the Christian People's Party's free school policy. We believe that we need private schools in Norway as a complement to public school provision. It must be possible to choose an alternative, which is why we are committed to facilitating the conditions of boarding schools and providing them with good and predictable framework conditions. In order for everyone to have a real opportunity to choose an alternative, we are also concerned with a good public funding of primary schools, so that parental pay can be kept at a low level. I am therefore pleased that a majority of the parties are now asking the government to investigate how costs of building can be included in the grant basis of the boarding schools. We know that many hospitals have a tight financial environment, and we know that every fresh school needs good, functional school construction in order to provide students with a good training offer. I am also pleased that the majority is asking the government to look at the possibility of the schools building up a little more equity than they have today, in order to ensure a predictable economy and allow some additional activities related to school activities, such as: cloud arrangements for own students and rental of vacant accommodation. While we want to give schools more flexibility, we want to be crystal clear that we don't want commercial health schools in Norway. School is not an arena suitable for profit and economic gain. These schools are largely run by community funds, and the money is going to benefit students. Therefore, I think it makes sense to clarify the dividend ban and also to extend the transparency of supervision to related companies. The Christian People's Party wants fresh oils, but we don't want any free slip. We made a private school settlement with the red-green parties at Stortinget in 2007, and it formed the basis of today's private school law. But the four parties that agreed in 2007 no longer have a majority in the Stortinget. The Solberg government announced a substantial liberalisation of the private school law. The Health Declaration warned that all those who comply with the quality requirements of the law should have a statutory right to start publicly funded health schools. This policy was not relevant for the Christian People's Party to support. I would therefore commend the Minister of Knowledge for choosing a solution that could give a broader settlement in the Grand Duchy. The government's desire for more diversity is safeguarded by the introduction of two new recognition bases in the law, while continuing the main lines of today's private school law. There will be no law of rights, there will be no right to take up high school. An application for approval still needs to be made, it needs to continue to be applied for on a defined basis in the law, and a discretionary assessment is still required before authorisation is granted. Municipalities will continue to speak and schools will not be approved if this will have a negative impact on public school provision on the ground. I think this is a good solution. It is a solution that implies a still strict law of free school, while opening up some more diversity in the sector than we have today. And I think that's a good solution because it's close to the center. No one is served by a high school policy that is drawn far to the right when there is a blue majority on the Stortinget, and far to the left when the majority is red.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1347	Thanks to the rapporteur, who has left us through this major matter in a good way. What this really is about is whether you want to open up many more private schools in Norway or not. The government has made a new bill because they want more private schools. The working party is against it. We'd rather spend time, energy, and money at the school that everyone, most children and young people go to, that's the primary school. As a school politician for the Labour Party, one of my goals is that all children should have the same opportunities in life and equal opportunities to develop differently, and then there are few things that are more important than a good, common public school — a school that ensures that you don't have to go too far away from where you live to get a good-quality training offer, a school that you can choose to go with those you play with in the street, a school that doesn't cost money, a school where you learn to associate with others, a school where you learn to associate with those who are either equal or different yourself, a school that has high ambitions for each child, a school that by changing your mind. For the Workers' Party, this school is just the common school, and we want to spend our time, our energy and our resources to make it even better. If you have such cloudy ambitions, you need to have focus – the right focus. And I notice that government representatives are constantly arguing that the Private School Act needs to be amended to create more diversity in the school sector and make room for innovation and good ideas. I think the government abdicates when it leaves the diversity and innovation in school to the private actors. I think it's an expression for the wrong focus. I also think that the government should concentrate on creating more diversity and innovation in the school in which they all, most of the students go. By opening up more private schools and by creating a school market, experience suggests, among other things. from Sweden, that diversity and freedom of choice are increasing for some, but at the same time more limited for others. It is a fact that in earlier liberalisations of the private school law, such as: the right implemented the last time they were in government, which led to private schools mainly wanting to establish themselves in the cities, which would go beyond the provision of services in the districts. And there will be no more students of more private schools, there will be more competition – a potentially unfortunate competition for children’s education and between cities and districts, a competition that someone can lose. If the government really wants to prevent this, I encourage them at least to vote in favour of our proposal on local veto against school institutions based on the expanded bases. Everything else is simply explained away and bad camouflage of what you actually want: more private schools in Norway. The last time the Right liberalised the law, it ended, for example. that in my county, Telemark, several school applications were accepted in Grenland, despite the fact that the county said no. The government says that the law they are now proposing is a completely different law from the one they proposed last time. Among other things, they repeatedly point out that approval shall continue to be granted only on the basis of certain grounds and criteria. This is true in itself, but the reality is that the government wants more private schools and therefore proposes to expand with two new qualification bases, profiling schools and schools with a professional programme — with a very unclear definition of what these bases really mean. Does that mean that if you have an extra party with dance this week, you're a profiling school in dance? Does this mean that if you pick mushrooms in the natural sciences and look for characters in nature that look like letters, and as long as this is clearly formulated in the school curriculum, you are a profile school in nature and outdoors? There is little help with the basis and criteria if these are so vague and imprecise that anyone seeking can actually fit in. Perhaps the reason why this is not defined more clearly in the law is that the council itself wants to fill this with its own content and have the power of definition, without interference from the Storting. If the answer is yes to the last one, at least I'm worried. Let's talk about profiling schools in public schools. Rather, let's build on what we know works: on the research line at Skien High School, on the ballet line at Ruseløkka, maybe also blow life again in the open-air life class at Tweten Secondary School in Porsgrund. And to those who say, "Relax, Christian, we can do both, have two thoughts in our head at once," the answer is, "Why have two thoughts in our head that deal with the same thing, and at the same time risk that one ambition puts legs on the other?" Because if the goal of changing the private school law is more diversity and innovation for everyone, is it not better to go ‘all in’ to facilitate innovation and diversity in the school in which almost all students go, to drop the privatisation process and to spend time and resources on something else? Because it's enough to take off, for example. local economy. More teachers at school will ensure that teachers have better time to give their students good learning experiences. The right-hand side likes to say that they're knowledge-based. In this case they prove once again that this is not the case, because there are few, if any, examples that increasing the privatisation of the school is what is needed to get a better school, where everyone, no matter what the assumptions, learns more. On the contrary, experience from several other countries shows negative trends. In Sweden, we have heard more and more words like ‘character inflation’ being used in the public school debate. We've also seen falls in school results. However, we look to countries that we know do well, for example. Finland, they almost have absences from private schools. There is therefore no reason to conclude that more private schools mean a better school overall. This does not mean that the Workers' Party is against all private schools. What we're discussing is the extent of private schools funded by public funds. The Labour Party believes that today's private school law is a balanced law that accepts alternatives to public school, while there is a restrictive practice of approval. The Labour Party is therefore still on the private school agreement from 2007. However, the Labour Party will vote for some minor adjustments in the law, including: dealing with adult applicants, alternative skills requirements and proposed models for the financing of top-level sport. We also support the changes in the law that deal with documentation obligations and the increased contribution capital limit and the introduction of quarantine provisions. When we look at the fact that an overwhelming proportion of private schools have been convicted of breaches of accounting rules and the use of state subsidies, it goes without saying that this has to be limited. But the Labour Party is opposed to changing the title of the law and the denomination of private schools to ‘freestanding schools’. We agree with the Education Association, which in its opinion says that the term ‘freestanding schools’ indicates that some schools are unfree, while others are free. It is unfortunate in a school that is characterized by freedom of method. We therefore propose that the title of the law be preserved as it has been until now, and that the denomination of schools approved by law be ‘private schools’. The major changes in this law relate to what you want to be able to accept as private schools and not. The Labour Party is opposed to extending the basis for the recognition of private schools because we are afraid that it will create a more shared school market, a school offer for some, not for all, more school offerings that cost money, which will focus around cities and go beyond the districts — which may have consequences for the school in which most of the students go. I address the suggestions the Labour Party has, alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1377	The representative Christian Thinning Bjørnø has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1380	I would also like to start by thanking the rapporteur for a good job. This is a matter that creates a lot of debate in Norwegian policy, and therefore it is also impressive the work that has been done to unload this law safely in Stortinget. The vast majority of Norwegian school students attend public school. That's good, and it's a strength by Norway. But then there are some students who want to or actually need something a little bit different from what public can offer. And there are also people out in our society, idealists, engaged school people, who don't work in the municipality or in the county, but who still have good ideas about how they see fit to offer something a little bit different to those students who need something a little bit different. It is also quite important to allow these options, that there are alternatives that are not only reserved for the rich, but that everyone should be able to choose what they want, regardless of their parents' wallet. That's why we have publicly funded private schools -- what we call now fresh schools. There is a big difference between that and the clean private schools that anyone can start in Norway, and that all the parties on the Stortinget are for them to do, and that it costs $50,000 to go on every year. What we're talking about now are publicly funded incubators, which are subject to quite strict rules. The last time it was changed as at the time it was called the Private School Act was in 2007. It was done by the previous government in cooperation with the Christian People's Party. At the time, a law of purpose was tightened up, saying that it was only allowed to start religious schools and schools that offered a pre-approved pedagogy, high-school sports and international schools. In other words, all the parties in this room are for publicly funded alternatives to public school. What we're now discussing is what are the purposes that must be the prerequisite for getting an approval to start such a school. There is no secret that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left went to the elections, and in reality, the majority in this Chamber, what can be called a law of rights, a law that does not rely on certain purposes being fulfilled, but that the quality must be good enough for them to be assessed to start up. The Christian People's Party, on its side, has gone to the elections and been dedicated to having a law of purpose. The four parties have been in close contact with the sector, both with those who are in the fresh air and with those who are in the fresh air. They've wanted one thing over another, and that's predictability. We need a law that allows more people to start up. We're doing some simplifications, and we're tightening up some areas. But the most important thing for the sector is that this does not become a law that swings from one side to the other by an alternating majority in the Biggest. That is why I am very pleased that the four cooperation parties today are going to vote for what is a broad free school settlement. What was formerly the primary school agreement in Norwegian school was between SV, the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. The new broad agreement goes between the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. It also means that this remains a law of purpose, but that it opens up several types of schools. The representative, Bjørnø, said that the purpose of this law is to get more fresh oils. Well, I don't ignore the fact that there's going to be some more freshs, but the most important thing for us is that there are going to be several types of freshs -- a greater diversity, more freedom of choice for the students. For example, we open the door. for what is called profile schools — schools which go separately into a discipline in addition to the space for action in the Knowledge Lift, which have their own curricula and which can be exemplified by real-time upper secondary schools or a school offering more languages than the public school does, with its own exchange programmes. Then we allow what is called vocational schools, our own schools started by the industries themselves, or in close contact with the industries, and that would then add up to the profession we are now going to pursue in the public school. An example of such a school is applied for here in Oslo. A training office has joined 80 restaurants in this city to get a school with 30 student places in the waitress and cookery sector. They say, we know something about what this industry needs, and we have some ideas about how education can be done. We think we can be a supplement to public school. Maybe we can even teach the public school some new ways to teach, and we can learn something from the public school about how they do things. The truth is, this is a school that could start with today's law, but only if they taught the cooks in the Bible between the cooks, or if they said you could go on the waitress line, but you're going to do it with rock pedagogy. Then you could start that school today. I just don't think that vocational school is getting better at that requirement. But I'm absolutely convinced that these enthusiasts, the 80 restaurants in Oslo, have some ideas that it's good that students get the opportunity to use, and that the public school can learn something from. This is a strict law. It is said in several debates that this really means a release. This is just as much a release for these schools as it was a release for montessori schools under the red-green government. There was no release at the time either, of course. There are strict criteria that have to be in place, but we're expanding our objectives somewhat. Just to repeat that, we don't allow dividends. You can't sort students. You can't take a higher proportion than today. The difference is that we do not demand that the school be religious or offer a particular pre-approved pedagogy. At the same time, we say that municipalities should have a greater weight to say yes or no to these schools than they have with the law of the day. Once again, when you look at all the alternatives as a threat to public school, it's really about a supplement that can't replace public school, but it can be a good alternative for those who want something else. The sector itself is very clear to us that they want a strict law. It is also important for those who currently run high school, that not unprofessional actors take place and destroy all the good options that we have today, and that we are now also going to have with the new law. The four cooperation parties also want to look at some simplifications for those who operate in fresh water. We also get the support of several opposition parties to some of these proposals, for example. how to finance school buildings. I believe that regardless of whether you go to a public school or a publicly funded free school, you have a good indoor climate and good school construction. That's why we've asked the Department to take a closer look at how to finance it. Today this is done through capital grants. It may be possible to look at how some of these can be included in the grant for the purpose of compensating for the costs they have for school construction. We also want the department to come back to us and look at how the 20-day rule works in practice. In a situation where you have a student who is gone for 20 days or more, the freshsole automatically loses its grant. It may work against its purpose — perhaps it is just when you need the grant, to make sure that student gets back to school. I'm going to say that in public school, if someone's gone for 20 days, you get an extra health sister. Then it's a little unfair if those who run publicly funded health schools lose state aid when they have some students with some extra challenges. So finally, this came at the end of the Bjørnø post, which is that you refer to Sweden. I have to say that I think it's quite special. One thing is what's going on in the media and out in the social debate, but inside the big room, I think it's much more interesting to discuss the legislative proposals that the government is actually promoting, and that we're going to deal with, instead of discussing the situation in a completely different country with a completely different system. You can talk about Sweden – it’s a very interesting debate about what’s going on in Sweden, but it’s a free school law that allows dividends, and that’s funded by the fact that the money follows the student, not by framework funding, as we have in Norway. In other words, it's a completely different model. I believe that we should have a fruitful debate on the Norwegian high school sector, we should discuss the Norwegian high school sector, not the Swedish one. The representative, Bjørnø, also says that it is much better to have news in public schools than to allow these alternatives. Well, the end of such reasoning must be that the Workers' Party should start public montessory schools, or that the municipalities should offer religious public schools. Or perhaps the public school has learned some of the montessori schools, has learned some of the stone schools, has seen that the public school, which is going to be there for everyone, is not always able to capture all the shades that students need? That's why alternatives are also allowed on the red-green side. What we are now saying is that we allow two new purposes, which in turn means good schools under strict demands, but which must not teach through religion or have montessoripedagogics. It means more diversity for students and more freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1416	First of all, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a good cooperation on new law on free schooling and for a clear presentation of the matter. The Progress Party believes that a diversity of both public and private schools is what benefits students the best. We have faith in competition in the school sector and that it can provide a better school, while it is important to maintain and invest heavily in public schools. We are so that students and parents should have the opportunity to choose for themselves the school that suits the student's skills and wants. The Progress Party therefore welcomes the fact that there is now a majority on the Stortinget to allow for the establishment of several types of fresh oils in Norway. The Progress Party believes that the proposal as it stands is a good and broad compromise proposal that will last for a long time. The basis for approval is extended. The two new foundations are secondary education in vocational education programmes and a specific profile. I think it is worth noting that a majority of the hearing bodies support an extension of the basis for approval. The Progress Group believes that more fresh schools contribute to increased diversity and inter-school learning. Publicly funded health schools also help to ensure the individual's real ability to choose a private school. Several actors have shown an interest in establishing schools that do not fall within the current framework, such as real-time vocational schools, private vocational schools, etc. The Progress Party believes that the change we are about to adopt will correct what we considered unreasonable in the current private school law. Vocational training in Norway takes place in close cooperation between school and industry through, inter alia, the apprenticeship system. We believe that increased cooperation between school and business is positive and should be extended. The fact that even now the professions have access to independent schools providing an alternative and complementary training offer for students wishing to receive training in vocational training programmes is an important measure in this respect. The possibility for schools with special immersion in specific disciplines and vocational schools to start up is an important liberalisation of the law. There is room for new and high-quality school provision to start and thus ensure greater diversity and freedom of choice for students. This we think is positive. The Progress Party will stress that the new law provides both security and predictability for students and employees. It has been claimed, in particular, by the working party team, that there is now a release of private schools, and one compares the law with Swedish legislation in this area. It's not possible to compare. The regulations in the law we are to adopt are completely different and much stricter than in the Swedish school law. Driving school is a major responsibility, and the Progress Party therefore believes it is important that both registration and deposit capital be required before approval. The Progress Party believes that the Swedish Law facilitates serious actors who wish to conduct high-quality school activities through good regulation and effective and clear instruments. In particular, the law contains a new provision allowing supervisory authorities to impose quarantine on legal entities and individuals. The Progress Party also supports the government's proposal to clarify that not only the operation of other activities but also ownership of such activities are subject to the law's prohibition of activities other than school. The Progress Party would stress that there is some flexibility in the law so that, where appropriate, some additional activities, including the rental of facilities at school time, can be allowed. The Progress Party has been working for many years to improve funding for fresh schools, and we believe that it should be considered to introduce extended access for schools to build free equity, which will benefit students in the short and long term through the ordinary income of the school, when the economic situation is right. These funds must not be allowed to leave the school company. Free schools may need some increased access to building up equity in order to ensure the security and predictability of the school economy. The ability to build up equity with income from ancillary activities has to be assessed in the context of the regulatory regulation. The Progress Party will point out that private schools also need good, functional school construction. The grant basis for the post-secondary schools is based on the average operating expenditure of the public school. Depreciation costs for durable means of operation such as school buildings are not an operating cost but an operating cost and are therefore not included in the grant basis. The Progress Party believes that the grant base should be based more on the real costs of schooling and that private schools should receive grants to ensure the possibility of good, functional premises. In view of this, the majority of the government is asking for an assessment of how construction costs should be included in the grant basis and for the evaluation of the inclusion of the depreciation of permanent operating resources in the grant basis of the boarding schools. I would also like to show that the government has announced its own big message about lifelong learning and alienation during 2015. Lifelong learning is something the Progress Party has long considered that there is a need for a thorough review of, because the content of professions changes, and because several reasons need to change. Against this background, the Progress Party believes that the Stortinget must carry out a thorough review of the organisation of school and education for adult students in line with the needs of individuals and society. In this context, the supply of fresh water to adults should also be investigated. In order to provide a real offer to adult students in fresh schools, the Progress Party sees it as essential that such offers give them the opportunity to prioritise adult students without schooling in front of applicants with school law. Today, these schools provide a good training that is adapted to the individual. The Progress Party will also point out that there are currently very few public schools offering training in protective subjects. Students who want to be educated in these subjects can choose little from a public offer. At the same time, there is a great need for the skills and knowledge represented by these subjects. Norway also has an obligation to maintain this knowledge, including: through the UNESCO Convention for the Protection of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage. Adults without the right to secondary education constitute an important student group for schools providing training in small and protective crafts. The party expects the government to find good ways to facilitate schools with protective subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1454	The vast majority of students in Norway attend public schools, and we are pleased about that. The centre party believes there is a strength at the Norwegian school and our society. One of the reasons we're assigned to one of the world's best countries to live in is because it's not the wallet that decides whether you're going to be educated or not. We go to the same school, regardless of wallet, gender, religion, class, cultural background, interests and level of function. Swallow in just 3 pst. of primary school students and 7 pst. Among high school students attending private schools, it is a human right to choose alternatives for their children. Today's private school law covers an offer with long traditions that is a supplement to the common school. In this way, today’s private school law ensures a good balance between a high-ranking common school and the consideration of parental rights. The essence of the parental right is to be able to choose a school with a content different from the public offer, not to choose an offer created in direct competition with the public. The central party understands the government's desire to develop good schools, but we believe that the good school offer should be developed in public. The central party has criticized the government for doing too little, too late, in the professions. The Government, the Christian People's Party and the Left now open up vocational schools to respond to the need for a good professional programme. It is illogical and incomprehensible for us that the government is now opening up to this, when two years ago the Grand Duchy decided that a review of the study programmes should be carried out in order to better adapt them to the needs of the labour market. In particular, it is expressed that, inter alia: sales and service, catering and catering have a bearing on recruitment and success. We still criticize the government to follow up Report. St. 20 for 2012–2013 too bad. Why in the world do you think it's better that private people deal with the professions than to sort them out the sails? The government could immediately take over the offices if they thought they were giving priority to the profession. We have also criticized the government for not doing anything about the exchange model, sail if it was also adopted two years ago. 4.5 million. There are barely four teaching positions, and it is said that there is a microstake on exchange. This means that it is not possible to facilitate exchange between school and enterprise. Neither county councils, training offices nor enterprises have the means to organise this in a good way. That is where we believe that the money should have been used. Opening up to so-called profiling schools has a good intention — a desire to sharpen and train on special skills or specialisation. It could be art schools, sports schools, research schools, etc. etc. But we have to be similar to the Labour Party asking the question: why does it have to be in private? Why can't public schools be more stimulated and given the opportunity to develop their schools in areas where they think they have a advantage? The centre party believes that there is sufficient flexibility within today’s legislation to allow public schools to deepen within, for example: arts and crafts, sport, language or real science. I think it's a little strange that the restaurant and food industry in Oslo is first taken seriously and listened to when they make their own school. They should have been in and given advice a lot earlier. It is good that the proposition emphasises that new private schools should not be approved if there will be negative consequences for the school offer in the municipality or county. Several hearing bodies believe that this can be understood as giving municipalities the right to veto, and that it may be more difficult to comply with parental rights and the desire to establish private schools. The centre lot considers that this should be differentiated between the basis of approval. In the case of schools applying for establishment on the current basis — alternative pedagogy, religion and outlook on life — we believe that the local authorities’ objections should be given considerable weight. On the other hand, the Central Party believes that when schools apply for direct competition with the public offer on the basis of the basis of which the majority now provides, we must allow the municipalities to have a right of veto. Let me stress that the Central Party's starting point is that today's private school law is sufficient to safeguard the core of parental law. We don't think it's necessary to open up to so-called profile schools, we think it's diluting the basis of purpose. In addition, it is very unclear how profile schools should be understood and defined. It has also been pointed out by several hearing bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1473	In this case, the Left has agreed with the government and the Christian People's Party on a new law on free school – first agreed on a new name for the law and then agreed on two new recognition bases. For us in the Left, it is important that it is the public school that should be the preferred offer for most students in Norway. But the private schools – or colleges, as we now call them – are an important supplement for those who want something else. We do not see this as a threat to public schools. Rather, we view it as a diversity and an enrichment for the school as a whole. When you make an agreement, if the left would have made these changes on its own, it would have looked a little different. We had probably initially wanted a right law and not extended it with two new recognition bases. In return, we also wanted more power for the municipalities and county councils and more influence for those who know best what the schools in their municipality are like or in their county. Then it would have been important for us that we had put in place a ban on direct and indirect dividends, so that these schools had not become commercial but were fresh schools, to strengthen and make the school as a whole more diverse. That's what we have in our program, and that's what we've gone to elections on. Nevertheless, we are well pleased with the results that are available here today. We're actually opening up two new qualification bases. That means that we get more diversity into school than what we have today. Then we are very pleased that we have got the government and the committee to agree that there is to be an investigation into the requirement that educational staff must be employed in the school. It is the salary of educational staff who take most of the budget of a school. By employing them at school, you reduce the possibility of making indirect dividends. We are also pleased that we are going to have a non-commercial purpose paragraph and an obligation to the schools that want to operate, to have such a purpose paragraph — to reduce the risk of indirect or direct dividends being collected. Perhaps the strongest reason why we chose to make an agreement with the government and the Christian People's Party is what the sector itself has pointed out: the need for predictability and the need for a law that can last over time. Had Left promoted its primary proposal, it had got our votes, and we had a situation where we were going to fight all the way for our primary alternatives. Now we have a law that opens up, which is clear about what goes on commercial. At least then we think that it is important to give predictability to the sector, and that things can last over time – often over several choices as well. Finally, I would just like to raise both the proposal for a decision and the comment of the committee that goes on this with small and protective subjects and the financing of these training courses. I'm very happy that these are being pulled out and pointed specifically. They're few, but that's important knowledge. It's also important for our society that such knowledge as it's taught here is passed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1492	First of all, it has been a process of concern to the work of the Committee, and at the tame of the work, the Co-operation Council turned to us. Therefore, I just want to ask the Minister to clarify how the government will proceed with the recordings that came from the Sameting, which they wanted to consult, but which they did not get. So private school law: In 2005, Norway and Sweden separated teams in education policy. The first SV did when we took over the Ministry of Knowledge in 2005, was ringing the common ball and tightening the possibility of getting state aid to private schools. 22,000 private school seats were low, ready for launch, but we stopped the Right Privatisation experiment. Therefore, the proportion of private schools in Norway is still very low compared to other countries – only 3 pst. of elementary education students and approx. 7 pst. by the students in further education go to private schools. The SV and the red-green government chose to use the resources of the public school. Sweden chose another way. Today, a quarter of the remaining elephants go to private schools. Sweden is among the OECD countries with the highest decline in all subjects, measured as PISA results. Scholars conclude that competition in private schools has not led to better quality in the Swedish school and that municipal costs have increased, mostly in small municipalities. The differences in quality between the schools have also increased significantly, while the home background has been given more information about the role of the school for students. Now the Right and Government will once again invest more in private schools, despite the experience of Sweden, despite the fact that the vast majority of students go to public schools, despite the fact that there is in no way any call among teachers, elephants and parents after the privatisation of the school, and despite the fact that a number of researchers point to the negative consequences of the privatisation of public education. In a recent article in the journal School Managers Pasi Sahlberg and Andy Hargraaves write: ‘What PISA shows is that education policy, which depends on competition, standardisation, testing and privatisation of public education, is a wrong path to go’. [[...]] [[...]] Right now tries to minimize the experience. But the problem is that the validation basis for so-called profile balls is so vague that it can lead to the approval of a large number of new private schools. The way the law is designed, a private school can be approved if a bet is slightly more in language, culture or real science. Many private actors will search, and we know from experience from other countries what the result will be: greater segregation of the students and a gradual weakening of the public school. The ban on dividends is good and good, but we know that the school companies are very creative when it comes to finding opportunities for dividends. It is the Christian People's Party and the Left who are now giving the Right and the Advance Party great freedom for the privatisation of the Norwegian School. I'm surprised that especially the Christian People's Party well to take such a scholastic right-wing turn. The private school law in 2007 became a compromise Christian People's Party should have our pleasure with. Now they choose to put the private spheres in play again and open up to a whole new type of development in Norwegian school, with unclear consequences. To the dear Christian People's Party – here are five good arguments against the new private school law. There's no shame to turn: It is a strength for Norwegian society that elephants with different social backgrounds, beliefs and culture learn together and from each other in the same public sphere. It contributes to a society with greater understanding, greater trust and stronger community. Multiple elephants in private schools mean fewer children in the common sphere. Experience from Sweden and other countries shows that larger sections of private schools lead to increased segregation. A goal of the law change is to give more innovation to the school. However, an OECD report concludes that the private school market primarily leads to innovations in marketing, not pedagogics. The new law will affect the districts where there is no market for private schools. The choice will increase for some elephants in central districts, but in the districts the offer may be poorer. The need for control will increase, and ensuring that the elephants in new private schools do not circumvent the legislation to take out excess will increase public resources to red tape. In 2005, Norway and Sweden distinguished teams in education policy. Although Røe Isaksen will not introduce a Swedish model, he is now taking a step towards the Swedish border. We don't know how big it's going to be, but we know it's going in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1528	Private schools in Norway have been approved under this government and private schools in Norway were approved under the previous government in the eight red-green years. Then I have not intended to go to harry trading in Sweden under private school law. That's why we put forward this law, which now has a majority, with the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party behind us. It is a law that allows for greater diversity in the type of schools, while at the same time tightening legislation in several areas. So there will be stricter rules, among other things. to prove that you do not take too high a price if you are going to buy services from a sister company, and there are stricter rules to take those who abuse today's legislation. Then it is true, as many people here have pointed out, that there are few in Norway who go to fresh schools. That's 3 pst. by primary school students, 7 pst. by secondary school students. That means that our big, important job is to make the knowledge school, the public school, better. It's job number. one. At the same time, there is no contradiction between it and ensuring that individual families and students have an opportunity to find alternatives to public schools. The private schools that are in Norway today have largely been important supplements to the public. They have been important to many groups and families who think a little differently about education, even though many of them, including those who are today considered to be established private school foundations, have been countered over and over again. In my opinion, the private school law that came in 2007 has given some unreasonable results. It's e.g. allow private schools to be established specifically for talents in alpine or football, but for talents in mathematics, physics or chemistry the same is strictly prohibited, unless the school operates on a religious basis or on the basis of a recognised pedagogical direction. At the same time, the government has carried out a thorough review of the law in this area, and our starting point has been that the work on new law on free schooling should contribute to more diversity, development and learning between schools. Publicly funded incubators with clear limitations on how much can be required in student payments. It also contributes to the individual’s ability to choose a post-secondary school. At the same time, there is no reason to hide that this was not the Right and the original proposal of the Progress Party. This is a compromise, where we've also gone a long way to get a broad majority. I think that is a good thing, and I also see that the different organisations in the area are largely ending up with the new law on high school. We propose to call it fresh schools because today there are completely private schools that do not receive public support, and believe that it is a good clean-up. One of the things we have compromised on is that we keep today's approval system with requirements for its purpose – the basis, which it really is – in order to be able to accept. This means that there is still to be a discretionary assessment – no right to authorisation is introduced. The legislative proposal also clearly states that a school should not be approved if this would lead to negative consequences for host municipalities or host communities — a continuation of current practice. Then we propose adding two new qualification bases to the law. One is a vocational education programme, and the other is a specific profile, profile schools. To the extent that it involves a release, it is an abuse of the word release. To the extent that it implies – and some claim it – that the door of the door is now wide open, there is strict access control on the way in to the door. Both grounds are defined in the law and in the pre-worker, and in the usual way, as in the current law, further demarcation is carried out by means of authorisation practices. Vocational training schools shall provide training which is consistent with public school training, the host state shall have the right to an opinion, and the views of the vocational training student shall also provide the opinion of the county. The second qualification basis, profile schools, must represent something that is significantly different from what is normal practice in public schools and schools recognised by other foundations of the law. There are essentially two main categories. There are schools that want to pay special attention to a topic, for example: real science, sport, language, art and culture. The other is schools with a different pedagogy from those used in public schools or schools approved on the basis of a recognised pedagogical direction. For the former, the profile schools, it requires more than just glaze on the cake – special professional attention must be given to a subject and individual curricula must be approved to make this visible. So it's not a good idea to just use what's in today's curriculum on the Knowledge Lift.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1548	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1551	The new law introduces two new recognition bases. One is that you simply run vocational schools, of course with the formal requirements for offering a balanced offer with the public school, having curricula and purposes, etc. That is also the case in the Swedish law, so this is where you fully follow Sweden. There is no tightening or any variation, neither in relation to the law proposed by Clement in 2004–2005 nor in relation to what the Swedishs do. But the second is that you have a foundation called profile schools. It is pedagogical, or it is substantive. For both schools it is said to have ‘schools that want an offer in addition to the action space of the Knowledge promise’. It's on page 24 of the proposition. What pedagogy is that beyond the space of action in the Knowledge Promise, all the time there is freedom of method in the public school? It will be interesting to hear the Minister of Knowledge define the educational options beyond the space for action in the Knowledge Lift.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1559	As I said in my post, this means that you have an offer that is different from what is normal practice in school today. But then the representative Geske has the right that today there is freedom of method in public schools, and that is one of the reasons why we have a good discussion and a desire here for greater diversity in public schools. But nevertheless, there may be reason to believe that environments that are not necessarily in public already can add new ideas, that they can have other ways of doing things, that it's easier for them, for example. because it is not a school that is as closely connected to a geographical area as many of the public schools are, to come to alternative profiles, for example. in the field of art, real science, other types of subject. It's a good framework in the law, and it's a framework that will eventually also be made clear through the practice, i.e. when you approve the individual applications with the discretion that lies there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1564	There is no frame-up at all in the law. It says "special profile," but then you have to look at the preworkers, and that's from page 24. Now the minister of knowledge has to stop talking like he was in a school debate, but start talking like he's in the main hall, where you treat a law. It says that it approves schools ‘who want an offer in addition to the action space in the Knowledge Lift. ‘ One of these acceptance criteria is pedagogy. I repeat the question – and this has been prepared for debate in the main hall: What teaching is beyond the space for action in the Knowledge Lift? What is the pedagogy that will provide the basis for being approved as a profile school, all the time required by law and by the preprocessor to go beyond the action space of the Knowledge Lift? The promise of knowledge has freedom of method. I repeat the question: what pedagogics is this? After all, we need to clarify in the main hall what is in some way the framework for being recognized as a profile school on a pedagogical basis. The Minister of Knowledge must define that here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1572	There is no need for the Minister of Knowledge to define here, just as the law does not specify that montessoripedagogics or rock pedagogics are to be regarded as well-recognised educational directions. There's a clear envelope in profile schools. As I also said in my post – a little simple, correct – it does not keep a profile like a glaze on top. You have to have a clear profile in your curriculum, you have to use the space for action in the law to move in hours and thus strengthen a professional profile. Then there could be other types of things. A representative here mentioned whether you had your own exchange programmes if you had a language school. This kind of thing will also have to be considered if it is to be different from what is normal practice in public schools. I believe that when the representative Giske is going to read the frame of the profile schools, he must use everything that has been written, not just one section.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1577	I think I have to repeat the question as a yes or no question. These are the following: Are there educational directions that go beyond the space for action in the Knowledge Lift? On page 24, the five and six lines say that the requirement to be approved as a profile school is that there are ‘schools that want an offer in addition to the action space in the Knowledgelift’ – in addition to the action space in the Knowledgelift. Then I ask again: Is there the educational alternative that goes beyond the space of action in the Knowledge Promise, all the time that you have freedom of method, i.e. educational freedom, in the Knowledge Promise, and what kind of educational offer is this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1585	It is absolutely right that with the promise of knowledge, there is freedom of method in school. It means, and there is also an answer to the representative Giske's question, that there is basically a great deal of freedom in public schools to have different types of pedagogy. But this is a law that also responds to what is stated in the former law on free schooling, where it has been said that it is «recognized educational directions». It has gained concrete content through the fact that in practice it is montessori schools and stone schools that have been approved. That is why we propose that, with other pedagogical approaches, if there are applications for what proves that there are alternative pedagogics, they should have the opportunity to do so. Then I repeat that the representative Giske has to look at the entire framework of the profile schools, both the local authority's right of expression and the county council's right of expression, that one has to look at the requirement that there should be a substantial difference between what is going on in schools, including the exemplification of what it can mean in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1592	I've been to teacher's school. I've known rock education and montessoripedagogics, but besides that I haven't heard particularly about other educational directions, so it'll be very interesting to see what this really is for. I'm going to ask a completely different question. The representative Asheim said in his speech that it was important to be able to say yes to the private school in Oslo in the restaurant and dining area, because there were eight companies that merged, and they could learn something from the public school. Then I wonder why the Council of State has not arranged for the food and restaurant industry to learn something from the public school without eight companies joining the same training office to teach 30 students. Why has one not chosen to await the review of the study programmes adopted by the Stortinget Sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1599	Now I am not going to interpret what Mr Asheim really meant, but I think that was one argument that professional health schools should also be allowed, not the only argument for that. Then it is quite obvious – the representative himself mentions the review we are now going to have of the professional study programmes, especially those who have proven to be poorly connected with the labour market – that some of the point is to find out what the needs of the labour market are, and how our education offer responds to it. I see no contrast here between the fact that both professional fresh schools can be established – for which there is an application, for which I otherwise do not take a stand, it is possible to have a case that ends up on my table – to have that opportunity in the law and, at the same time, to strengthen the professions in the ordinary public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1606	I guess we didn't get any wiser from that round of questions there. There's another thing that we've become uncertain about in the committee in the process, and that's the consultation arrangement between the Sameting and the government. Such as one should understand the consultation agreement between the Federation and the Government, which is fundamental to the work of Norway and its international obligations, etc., is that in the cases where the Sameting itself considers these to be relevant issues for the Sameting, they shall be granted consultation. It's not an opportunity to reject, according to our international obligations. In this process, the Sameting has contacted and been refused consultation on this matter and has had a series of recordings. As I understand the answer from the Minister, the Minister assesses to come back to the questions raised by the Counsellor, but I am not quite sure if I have understood that correctly. Can the Minister elaborate on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1615	The consultation system works both ways. It means that there is also an assessment of what is relevant for consultation. Then there should be issues in the billing proposal or in the case that directly involve Sami interests. Then I've had a meeting with the Sameting, because I think it's quite natural that when Sametinget believes that the consultation system is not met, and that communication with the department could be better, it's my responsibility to make it better. We had a meeting with the Sameting that was very good, very useful and very constructive, where I also said that there are some things I see that the department could be better at. We're going to work on improving that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1623	I asked about the basis for profiling school and pedagogics, but I did not get any clarification on that. I don't think I've been involved in a treatment of a law where the result of the law has been so drowsy, as unclear, as this. Maybe we can get a clarification on this with professional content. A school has to have a curriculum — that’s not a very impressive requirement. It must have a purpose – it is not very impressive. It must have teachers with pedagogical competence. This should be of course. What is the core: what are the requirements for the subject and the hour content of so-called profiling schools? The representative Thinning Bjørnø framed a lot of good examples on which he wondered was the basis for profile schools – once again back to the requirement on page 24 that it should deviate from the Knowledge Lift. In the Knowledge Lift, an hour may vary by up to 5 pst. That means one hour a week. But a school that has its own profile, its own bet on a theme, and deviates two hours a week from the hours of the Knowledgelift, is that a good enough basis for becoming a profile school?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1630	The answer to that is no, that's not a good enough basis. Here again: You have to look at the entire legal text that is proposed, and at all the frames that are. And maybe the most important element here is that it's also a judgement. In other words, there is not a form that can be selected, and once you have fulfilled all the requirements of that form, you will automatically be approved. The reason is that this is not a law of rights, it is a law that retains the principle of the previous private school law, namely a discretionary assessment. Then, the crucial criterion here too is that there should be a significant difference from what is practice in examples found in public schools. In addition, as with all other laws of this type, there will be cuts as you receive applications on the table. We had the same discussion in connection with the dispensation opportunity that the government provided, and as the Stortinget decided, where Giske was also afraid that it would be released. It hasn't been, just for the same reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1639	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1642	When we vote on the private school case today, the majority in this room – with the Christian People's Party on the team – will take the school in the wrong direction. They will vote for changes that threaten the common school we know today, which is part of the pillar of the Norwegian model: the school that will give all children the same chance in life, where everyone will learn and be taken care of on the basis of their assumptions, the school where children and young people from different walks of life meet, cooperate and build social communities. The major changes that are now taking place under new private school law are made without having evaluated the consequences of the short-term reform of Bondevik II or having seen the consequences of the Swedish release of private schools. Not gaining knowledge of the serious consequences of the reform in Sweden is particularly remarkable, and it is interesting to hear the representative Asheim when he does not want to talk in any way about what is happening in other countries. But it's not alarming, nor is it surprising. For this government and the right side of Norwegian policy, elections and ideology are clearly more important than knowledge and research on what serves society best, and in this case what is best for Norwegian students. Government and the Christian People's Party claim that this law is only a careful amendment of the 2007 law. We also heard from Asheim that there is only a slight change in Norwegian school policy. We've heard this in other things as well. We've even heard that it's a big contraction this is all about. That's not true at all. The two new foundations open up a large number of new private schools — in reality, a release. Trying to represent this as something else is wrong, simply wrong. Those who participated in the hearing in the case, including the Education Directorate, pointed out that the criteria for the so-called profile schools are very vaguely defined. Nor do we get any clarification today about the limitations of what a profile school can be, or these two hours you can have, which are going to separate these schools from the public school, in order to be approved. Nor is it clear how to ensure that the major dimensional problems in the professional field are not exacerbated when it comes to freedom to set up private vocational schools. With more schools that do not provide a place for learning, we make the professions less attractive and the recruitment situation worse. In addition, this would go beyond the administrative means of running good vocational schools in major and resource-intensive subjects. These changes in law are neither small nor pragmatic, they change the very core of the private school law we have today. State aid must now be granted to private schools which do not aim to be an alternative, i.e. on the contrary: State aid must now be granted to private schools where the aim is to compete with public schools. We need a special effort in the professional field. Norway needs skilled workers with a wide range of vocational education and training which provides a basis for independence, further education, job and trade change and retraining. Professional advice for electrical science — representing the third largest profession — is very critical to the privatisation of vocational training. They fear that strong professional environments built up over many years throughout the country are now in danger of becoming confused and lost over time. They refer to Sweden, where privatisation has provided many private schools in «cheap» disciplines and densely populated areas. The department fears that several private vocational schools will weaken education and professional environments by coming industry schools, which do not share the same broad intention of training as the public school has. Norwegian vocational training is based on the European vocational training tradition, introduced into the Norwegian working life model with tripartite cooperation, where the counties are an important partner. This is the best guarantee for strong, broad and solid academic environments in schools, which can once again work closely with the different industries. Privatisation will weaken the Norwegian model of working life in vocational and vocational training. Dilution of tripartite cooperation in education could in the long term lead to dilution of vocational training. In other words, the cooperation of the parties is a support bar in the Norwegian vocational training. We are concerned that the majority voting today weakens this role. For us, it is important to take care of and further develop the role of the parties in vocational training, not the opposite. When it comes freely to private vocational training, we fear poorer quality and decline in recruitment. In the long term, we all pay the price for it when we don't get the skilled skilled workers that the country needs. At the very end of the dividend issue: it is clear that there will be less money for public schools once they have received their private income.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1673	A diversity in the school sector is to be enjoyed. Diversity contributes positively to inspiration, creativity and innovative activity. The many ideal individuals who want to contribute to a better school, who want to create something new and provide students with good education, we are now giving a handshake. New educational strategies can challenge traditional pedagogical frameworks. The changes in the law strengthen the law and ensure that it remains a law for the many creative people and not for the commercial ones, and this is evident when we are now tightening up the possibility of commercial operations and the possibility of making dividends. And we take greater account of the interaction with existing schools when going from particular negative to negative considerations in the evaluation of each application. The dropout in high school is far too high. This is why the government's work on early work, quality levels in kindergartens, early work in primary school and right up to the professional level in higher education are very important. Today, we are further promoting the positive forces that exist in School-Norway. When the law changes now opens up profiling schools and vocational schools, we will be able to bring together the many engaging and offensive industries in a new and exciting way. Meeting with the industry association, we hear about new and exciting models of cooperation between school and business that can contribute to professional development, exciting pedagogical models and, in particular, guarantees for apprenticeships and placement in companies. Young people who decide early on on on a professional path, who have a special talent and who want to challenge themselves early on in a particular field, can hopefully find offers that lift them early into an exciting and inspiring school run. Today, when we also ensure that the law of free school retains today's approval system with requirements for a specific basis for approval, where approval is still to be granted after discretion, and where we are not to grant approval if it has negative consequences, it shows that we have a moderate legislative change that should be able to last over time, and ensure the predictability we want. It is therefore quite disappointing that the Workers' Party in this matter chooses to fall into the somewhat one-sided and old story story where they believe that this is a release and a threat to the public school. It will be a little special to hold on to this rhetoric when the old law, which the Workers' Party could accept, is now tightened up – in the new law on free schooling – as regards the possibility of commercial operation, and still have the same discretionary requirements and assessments. I guess it's more about values. Some of us believe that diversity is positive, that individuals can contribute to the development of society, that parental rights are central when opportunities and the future are to be shaped in each family, that business can play a role, contribute to innovation and promise of public service – that, in short, more votes, and society as a whole, can lead to positive developments on the school side too. ‘We learn the most from being out in business’, said the young black man and plumber Hans Martin to the Bladet Vesterålen after being interviewed about the choice of the profession – a choice he obviously does not regret. He's chosen forward-looking. As has been pointed out several times before, the SSB has said that in Norway we will lack 110 000 skilled workers only in construction, electronics and mechanical engineering by 2030. So now that we can see new, exciting vocational schools under the law of higher education, it is a positive step towards meeting this challenge. One of the main objectives of the government is to continue working to strengthen the knowledge society. Norway is in transition, which places high demands on our education system. It will require willingness to invest in quality throughout the education and training sector, and all positive forces must then be allowed to contribute – not only in top-notch sport but also in innovation and strengthening vocational training, or through, for example, vocational training. a real-time college. Norway competes globally, and in this context I will also highlight the importance of international education. An increasing number of enterprises need skilled academics and skilled workers with international training courses and degrees, which guarantee them the required skills in the market in which they compete. Just as our companies need to acquire international competence and access schools for the children of their employees, it is important that we now get the challenges of the well-known IB schools into a solution, by incorporating the 11th year of primary school into the funding model. This avoids the challenge of different levels of administration and thus unforeseeable frameworks for individual students. Today we adopt a forward-looking law for a Norway in transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1694	For many decades, there has been a fairly broad and predictable policy in the field of private schools. We had an exception in the years 2004 and 2005, where it was released to many thousands of private schools, but this was reversed again in 2005 and 2006, and that was again a broad compromise in 2007. It has provided security for the public school, but it has also provided security, I think, for the private schools, especially those we have had as part of our school system for very many years – the Christians, the educational alternatives Steiner and Montessori, top sports, the small professions and others. It has been reasonable, as was also said earlier here by the rapporteur, that there has not been a shift from one ditch to the other by an alternating majority. Then it is strange that this is exactly what the majority of people and the case rapporteur choose to do in this case. Instead of saying that we continue to create greater diversity, greater development, more profile schools and more development in that school as the Council of State and we are responsible for, namely the public school, we must therefore resort to privatisation in order to get this quality development and learning. It's a failure statement when we actually have tools ourselves – I think the Council itself has several hundred million dollars to use – in different quality development programs in the primary and secondary systems. So it's said that there still has to be an approval, it still has to fill the terms of the law, and it still has to be a judgement. Well, this was also in the law of 2004/2005. There is nothing new, including private schools in previous times and in other countries. The case rapporteur said that this was not a right now. Well, he can't have read the bill proposal on pages 26 and 27. It says: ‘In the consultation note, the Ministry stated that there is little practical relevance to the statutory or non-legislative nature of the right to authorisation. Several of the conditions for obtaining authorisation have to be assessed in a discretionary manner; this applies, inter alia, to whether the requirement for a basis is met, whether there is a need for a school and whether an authorisation would have negative consequences». You keep going. ‘a statutory right to which several conditions attach—conditions that are widely considered discretionary—will appear rather illusory’. And then it concludes: ‘The Ministry assumes that the general rule shall be that, if the conditions are considered to be met, authorisation shall be granted.’ My question to the case rapporteur is whether he has missed this sentence when he says that this is not – in practice – a right law. It follows from the Administrative Act. If you start giving schools State aid based on a judgement, others who meet the same requirements must also have the same right. It is said from the Council of State – it was clarifying – that this was not the government's primary policy, this was a compromise to meet the Christian People's Party in particular, but I also assume the Left. It is a little strange that when the four parties make compromises in other areas, for example: police reform, it is actually presented as a compromise when the proposition comes. Here, the other two opposition parties – even though Asheim refers to the four as the position parties and the other as the opposition parties – I assume that the Left and Christian People's Party are still formally in opposition – as if this were new from the government, and that they have found that they joined it. It would have been more tidy if you had said what was true, that this had been discussed in advance and arrived at. It's a new line. They say here from the Council of State that this is something the big organizations are joining. That's wrong. The Education Association is clear against, the Student Organisation is skeptical, and the KS joins in the proposal that the opposition parties, at least the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, promote here, that is to give decisive weight to the community when approving profiling schools, if any. You can vote in favour of that. I think the left mentioned this, that there was a desire for greater influence. That proposal is on the table, and it is possible to vote for it at some point in the night. It is ironic that the left-wing representative who sits on the same seat as the legendary school politician Johannes Steen, who was one of the architects behind the folk school laws in 1889, is involved. I myself took over the State Council chair in the Ministry of Knowledge after another legendary education politician, Jon Lilletun. I am quite convinced that Jon Lilletun had not joined in what Anders Tyvand is doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1727	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1730	The last time the Right introduced a private school law, many thousands of new private schools were applied for throughout Norway. The situation in my state, Troms, was really quite symptomatic. There, 1,200 private schools were applied for. All would start in the largest city in the county and in the north of Norway, Tromsø – none in the districts. For information, there are about 6,000 high school students in Troms. Such a change would drastically alter school provision in Troms, with the greatest impact on district schools. Similarly, if the private school law had been allowed to work longer than in the autumn of 2005, it would significantly change the School-Norway. The difference between the law of Kristin Clement and the law we're dealing with today is relatively small. When the Right and Advance Party, but also the Left and Christian People's Party, call this 'only moderate changes', I think that then the starting point they came from must be quite so extreme. The government has proposed, with new foundations such as profiling schools and vocational schools, actually to give private actors quite ample room to start new schools. The Minister of Knowledge was concerned that the word ‘release’ was being abused here today. Well, a word that has become more abused than that is the word ‘essential’, because when it is said that the profile schools involve ‘substantial changes’, it is difficult to see them. The criteria for being profile schools differ so little from a public school that it is only a matter of small adjustments that a private operator may have to make. For example, two hours a week in hourly distribution. isn't a significant change, it's a fairly small change. And the conclusion is that the threshold is significantly lowered. Just as ten years ago, this law may have the potential to change the school structure of a municipality or a county quite drastically. Whether it is good for a municipality or a county, it is the municipality and the county most suitable for self-determination. Then they should decide for themselves. The working party will provide municipalities with the decisive right to decide whether schools should actually be approved under the new qualification frameworks. I see that the confidence that local politicians know best in local politics and in school policy is very low in the Left, Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right. Therefore, these parties will reject the decisive voice of local elected representatives in the question of whether more private schools should be established in their community. I had actually expected something different from the Left and Christian People's Party, but I would like to hear their explanation of why they choose not to trust the judgment of local school politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1747	It is not always easy to understand all the government's reform proposals and legislative proposals. The reason why it may be difficult to keep track of what they really think is that there is a lack of, to put it mildly, a connection in all the proposals that come. In the daily and festive speeches of the government and their representatives, we hear them talking in large letters about trust in local democracy, more power for the municipalities, more influence over their own everyday lives and less interference from the state. The task report, which came the other day, and which was debated here in Stortinget, was to describe new tasks to the municipalities, and it was a key point for the government to strengthen municipal autonomy, and more tasks were to come to the municipalities. The task message ended in a stomach pad, where municipalities are largely entrusted with administrative tasks such as notarial business, sport-functional recognition of swimming pools, the right of marriage of rapporteurs and the management of certain fish species. These proposals largely impressed no one in the municipalities and were largely no real transfer of power to the local authorities. But now, when the government really has the opportunity to open up to local self-government in a matter that is very important to the municipalities, and where local government has first-hand knowledge and knowledge of the issue, no then the government will not let local democracy decide. The Governments of the Right Party and the Advance Party believe that they know better than all the local government together. So in this case, the proposal of the government and the supporting parties is nothing more than a total overrun of the local democracy they themselves say they have strong confidence in. That the municipalities themselves should not get the last word in such an important local policy case as school structure is completely hopeless. This government does not have real confidence in those who represent municipal self-government, and today we are proved beyond any doubt that the government parties with their supporting parties pose a strong threat to local democracy and public schools as a basis in the Norwegian welfare model. At the top of it all, they send the bill to the local government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1760	Today we write another chapter in the history of a government that is changing Norway in the wrong direction. This implies that important values such as Community solutions, equal opportunities for all and small differences must give way to privatisation, sharp elbows and greater differences. Public welfare solutions built through generations shall be replaced by more market, privatisation and competition. The government itself writes this in the Health Declaration: ‘The Government considers initially that the production of welfare services differs little from other services.’ Clear speech, with a clear political direction: schools, hospitals and hospitals are considered to be pure production companies. For us in the Workers' Party, welfare policy and school policy are about people, about community, about equal opportunities, about integration, about proximity, about security, about adapted training for individuals, etc. Now the government with the supporting parties will probably claim that the changes made today will not commercialize Norwegian school. I am more uncertain about it, both in terms of the value of this government's view of well-being and what history has taught us. The last time the right forces opened up to the privatisation of the school, they promised that it would not be possible to take out the profits of the schools. The problem was that the companies owned the schools. Some did so contrary to the legislation, while others found more creative ways of making money in school. I don't think a political man can hold all the holes for possible profit. It turns out that these are actors who are finding solutions to this, and I am also not so sure that the government has a desire to avoid profit in the welfare field, when they so clearly state in the Health Declaration that ‘the production of welfare services differs little from other services’. For us in the Workers' Party, it is vital that the school remains an arena where children with different backgrounds meet and how equal opportunities are sought. However, we recognise that today’s government has a different view of values and policies in the field of school and welfare that are different.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1775	The representative, Tone Merete Sønsterud, scolded that the election vow was important to the government. Yes, there may be such things you have to chat with if you're in the Workers' Party – but enough about it. Mangfold's good. That's a good one. Many societies are more dynamic, more exciting, they evolve faster. At the same time, diversity is something that politicians can stop. Some sectors need strong governance. The education sector is such a sector. You might say that we are lucky in Norway, although ‘lucky’ is a little wrong word to use. Education that allows everyone to participate through tax finance is the result of a conscious policy. The government's major educational effort is the public school. That's where the vast majority of students go. Investing in school gives everyone the opportunity to succeed in adult life, it gives us a better basis for conversion, and it's strictly necessary after eight red-green years, where one, among other things, is. was unable to carry out a post-secondary education certificate which the teachers wanted and deserved. The government’s large-scale commitment to education is to equip Norway for the future. So today, it's not government's bet that's theme – it's willful. Today we are discussing how all good forces can escape, contribute to more diversity, new exciting environments that can learn from the public, but that public can also learn from. This proposal balances the balance between the necessary governance of the education sector and the possibility of more diversity in a win-win way. It is a moderate proposal, a proposal that is a consequence of the fact that even outside the public sector sometimes there are some who have some sense to come up with. If you read the comments about the red-green parties, and you do that – albeit not with pleasure, but they are now there – you get the impression that only the public sector is contributing to diversity. It says: ‘These members believe that the government is playing a passive role in the governance of the school sector if it leaves diversity and innovation to private actors.’ It's a scourge, a scourge you get used to as a conservative, but it's a scourge for conservatives to have to defend people's ability and willingness to be initiative-makers and run things outside the public sector – but it gets me to be bounds! So it is not left to the diversity of colleges, but it is said that ‘it contributes to diversity’. That's two different things. Finally, there are some discussions that there are too few female entrepreneurs. I agree that this is a challenge. At the same time, it is a fact that more than 400,000 women in Norwegian working life work in sectors where that is practically impossible. So there's something to think about for those who want to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1795	The representative Knag Fylkesnes believes that the Christian People's Party has taken a ‘spherical political right-wing turn’ and gives us good advice that there is no shame in turning around. It might be tempting to say that when the road to the left turns out to be a dead end, it might make sense to choose the road to the right instead. By that I do not mean to say that we have not been satisfied with the private school agreement from 2007. On the contrary, there is a lot of good in today's private school law, but then the situation is that the four parties that came together on the private school agreement and the private school law of 2007 no longer have a majority in the Stortinget. The majority is elsewhere, with two government parties and the Left, all three of which want a liberalisation that goes much further than what is happening today. That's exactly why we've chosen to be constructive and engaged in dialogue with the government parties and the Left; it's to try to pass on the main lines of today's private school law, and we've made it clear, and it would be thought that the representative Knag Fylkesnes and the rest of SV and the Workers' Party should appreciate that. Then I think it's a little strange to hear comparisons with Sweden, because that's not the Swedish law we're introducing. And I think it's strange to hear representatives from the Workers' Party and SV say that now it becomes «free ahead». I don't think I've ever heard a representative from the Workers' Party or SV say that with today's private school law, it's free to start a religious school, or it's free to start a stone school. On the contrary, we hear them say that it is ‘an opening to it in the law’ and we hear them say that it is ‘a restrictive practice of approval’. Yeah, that's what's also going to apply to the new law, but we're opening up some more diversity by introducing two new recognition bases. Profile schools in public: it sounds like a good idea. I am absolutely aware of the idea of more diversity in public schools, but if I want profile schools – i.e. schools that go beyond the space of action in the promise of knowledge – in public terms, I am not really sure. It's about the public school being a school for everyone, and if you like. Eating too much professionally, it is by no means certain that it is suitable for all those who attend public school, but it may be good to have it as an alternative, in private terms, for those who want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1806	There were several of the speeches by left-wing politicians in this debate that made me ask for the floor. So once again, it's going to be made up of frightening images of fresh oils. We have had private schools in Norway constantly, even before public school saw the light of day. To refresh the story a little bit: it is even so that in the former Prime Minister Stoltenberg's government there were several of the government members who had gone to private schools themselves or sent their children there. The private school is a supplement to the public, and the two work very well side by side. It's not like it's tried here, cynical owners with profit for the eye, without thought for the students or without thought to create good schools with good results. There are false claims, and not so little wilful either. In my own home country, Vestfold, there is a rich selection of private schools, either with different educational platforms or different life views as a background. In addition, there is a school that does not seem to work in the light of the arguments put forward here. It's Skagerak International School. This was approved under the 1991 legislation at that time. It has gradually evolved and now offers all steps. In higher education, Skagerak offers IB. It is generally accepted as one of the best schools in the country. Not many meters away is Sandefjord high school. If we were to believe on the left-hand side here today, this school should be so much threatened by the sinister private school that it would hardly be able to cope – yes, almost to fall down. The opposite is the case. Sandefjord secondary school is the country's largest high school — a modern school with satisfied students, good results and one of the country's best IB lines. Healthy competition gives diversity. In order for this not to be left alone as an example from little Westfold, I can from the same county lift forward Wang top-school gymnastics. When they were to establish themselves in Tønsberg, we met the same arguments, the same scare picture was painted: now the public school would be challenged, and the top sports offer at e.g. Re high school would be threatened. The opposite also happened here. Of course it did. Schools live well. In the same field, both schools are flourishing and delivering good results both in theoretical subjects and within the sports fields they offer. The left-hand reflection of the back margin is to stop, prevent and fight against private schools as an addition to public school. The fact that reality can provide examples of a better supply and a greater diversity does not seem to leave as much as a tiny thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1821	To the last speaker, I can only say that today's law respects human rights and Norway's international obligations that parents should be able to choose school for their children. It shall discharge those obligations in full. There is no separate reason to make this legislative change. But then more questions have been asked, to which we have not yet received an answer, uncertainties that it would have been possible for the government parties and the Left and Christian People's Party to clarify before we will adopt this law today – or tonight or tonight. I asked, among other things: on the justification of the Left and Christian People's Party for not trusting local authorities, that they should have the decisive voice in such school cases. When it is said that there is tightening in this field, that it goes from negative to particularly negative consequences, I would just refer to the Ministry of Knowledge's own comments on the paragraphs of the bill, where they say that this so-called tightening, that there is a new text in the bill, 'conforms to current practice', as it says, so no change in reality. We have proposed that local authorities should have the decisive vote. The Left and Christian People's Party will not be in it. It's okay. But then the representative asked the Minister of Knowledge about, among other things, the educational basis, pedagogical methods — pedagogics — in addition to the space for action in the Knowledge Lift. There has not yet been an answer to that question. When the rapporteur, Mr Tyvand, takes the floor and talks about pedagogics that go beyond the space of action in the Knowledge Lift: Can a municipality, can a county, start a school with pedagogics that goes beyond the space of action in the Knowledge Lift, or is it closed for it? If the answer is no to that, I would say that many of us are entitled to the claim that innovation should be reserved for private operators. Then I react to the reason the representative Tyvand gives, saying that he personally believes that municipalities should not have that opportunity, because he says no, the public schools should not be so pointed, because they should be for everyone. After all, the conclusion must be that even after a new qualification basis, the new private schools should not be the same. Anyway, today we're going to adopt this law. There would be an advantage to the uncertainties and the questions that are about, among other things. The pedagogical method was answered today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1834	I believe that private schools should be set up as profile schools. But I'm not sure at all that I want everything that should be on the ground to be able to start a private school, a high school, necessarily also into the public school. I have e.g. chose to send my daughter to a Christian free school in Tønsberg, Granly school at Eik in Tønsberg. It's a few hundred meters from Eik School, which is the public school. I think it's great that I have the opportunity to choose Granly School as a Christian alternative for my children, but I think it would be wrong if Eik School was the Christian option that everyone had to go on. So the question of whether we trust local authorities or not. Yes, we trust local authorities, but I think the proposal to introduce a general veto right is a bad proposal. It is a matter of not being the colour of the local authority that determines whether there is a possibility of private initiative or not. We're going to take into account the public school offer. Municipalities are supposed to be on the track, they're going to speak. If a private school has a negative impact on the public school, it shall not be approved. That's the way it was before, that's the way it is now. If we do not now trust local authorities by continuing this policy, it is also indirectly said that neither the red-green government prides itself on local authorities. I believe that this is a very sensible balancing for the sake of the municipalities and the public school. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is very good that we now change the name of the law again, back to the «free school» law. In this way, we create a clearer understanding that there is a difference between a free school that receives public funding and the purely private schools. I agree with that and, finally, I would just like to thank everyone who has taken part in the debate for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1845	I would first of all like to thank the Christian People's Party for an honest answer. I interpret it there that the Christian People's Party kept a little bit under the nose when this agreement came into place, but at the same time clapped a little on its shoulders so that it didn't get as bad as one could have feared with the Left, Right and Advance Party. What happened was that the Christian People's Party secured a certain width in the agreement, and if there's something none in the whole sector wants, then it's a jojo game, that it's not bad, that it goes from one multiple to the other, that it changes, that there are new rules, etc. I believe that a knowledge minister with such a syllable of plurality as with the Left, Right and the Advance Party would never be in the world in favour of their primary policies. Thus the Christian People's Party secures this transformation in a situation where one could get a much better and broader result. So to Heggelund's cryptic post: many things are good, I think all are a few in. So the question is: do private actors in the school market contribute to shortages? Do they contribute to the lack of pedagogical skills and approaches? No, no, no. An OECD report recently concluded that private schools do not favour innovation in pedagogics but with a lack of and innovation in marketing. So, one should be relatively overestimated in principle that this is going to happen, because experience shows something else. What you're looking for doesn't come from the private. Then the big question is, where is the eagerness to create the same lack within the public? Think of a certain right side – with their resources and energy – would have been equally concerned with creating that deficiency there! So to school structure: Today, the municipalities – the county councils at the next level – have a crucial role to play in ensuring a good school structure. It would be right and reasonable that they too were given decisive weight when deciding whether to grant a private school application or not. And everyone's saying that now we have to rely on the municipal politicians, now we're not going to pay attention anymore, this has to be up to the local politicians, it has to be up to the school owner, etc., it's -- we're leaving, in this case, because here it's something even more important, and it's private schools. I didn't think the principal approach to the school structure in this case was particularly impressive. I didn't think the answer to the Christian People's Party was that either. Here, in fact, one has given the Right and the Advance Party great freedom for privatisation without the Christian People's Party having control of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1856	There are a lot of things we haven't received answers to, either in the debate, in the setting or in the billing proposal, about what should be the basis for being recognized as a profile school. In reality, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party say: Be so good, councillor, this is what you decide, you can make rules for this, it'll be your guess, it'll be your judgment. In other words, a government that has opted for – and has in its government statement – that it should actually be a right to support is now free to define the content of these private schools. So Anders Tyvand, and also the Council of State, says this isn't a right, it's a matter of discretion, and so on. Well, it's exactly the same structure of law as that of Christian schools. I remind you of the famous - or perhaps famous - text message of the Council of State to the school agency in Oslo : ‘you know we cannot accept the complaint. It will only prolong a bad case for us." There wasn't much beauty there. It was a right, because it results from practice, it results from the law. So now you get the exact same law structure around these profile schools. What is strange about the Christian People's Party is that, on the one hand, we talk about parental rights and the election and international rights, which were also the basis for the 2007 conciliation on Christian schools – we have also put stone education into this – and then we use almost the same technique now to legitimize profiling schools, as Tyvand himself has said in interviews that they are not related to human rights and parental rights. Double-parodically, it is when municipalities are not allowed to start profile schools, but if you are private, you should be allowed to start a profile school. It must be said to be extremely ironic that public schools are being tightened up by tests, streamlining and standardisation, but if you are private, you should be allowed to be a profile school and go beyond the Knowledge Lift. We got one answer, and that was that an hour with two extra hours was not enough to be a profile school. We could still have three and four hours, but the truth is, this is still completely floating, and we know very little about this answer. Finally, with local freedom of action: The Storting has dealt with a large task message. Major and important tasks are transferred to the municipalities, for example: management of rare fish species in mountain waters, approval of swimming pools — of which there may be a few a year — and other major, important democratic issues. However, with regard to the school structure in the municipalities – when not even parental or human rights are violated – municipalities and counties should not be allowed to have a decisive word in the team. It would have been fun to hear the rapporteur define what is the basis for profile schools – educational basis that goes beyond the promise of knowledge, with educational freedom? – and what is the basis for subjects and hours. But neither the Council of State, the rapporteur or the majority of the population have clarified the most important question in this debate: What is the basis of the future for private schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1876	It is really the posts from both the SV and the Workers' Party that made me draw again. I must begin by referring to the representative of County, who thought that the Christian People's Party was holding its nose, and had almost been forced to make a settlement. When SV talks about it, one should listen, but the difference between Christian People's Party and SV is that the Christian People's Party has moved this policy considerably through the reconciliation in which they participate. I can confirm that as one of those who have been involved in discussing this with the Christian People's Party, that here they have had a lot of impact, and therefore they can also be proud of the law that they agree to adopt today. To this intense care for local self-government from those who believe that there should be a veto right here: why are they not too veto right for the municipalities in terms of educational alternatives and religious schools? The only logical end to what they think is that the municipalities must also have veto rights in religious schools and alternative pedagogy. There is nothing in the parental right that says that you have a right to start that type of school. So the only thing you're going to discuss is whether you're going to have a veto when it comes to someone, but not others. So far the care of local self-government extends. The municipalities get more influence with this law than the red-green law did. It is said that vocational training students should be involved in discussing whether or not they should be approved and that advice should be listened to. This means that professional schools should not go beyond dimensioning. The representative Geske referred to the text message from the state councillor Torbjørn Røe Isaksen. Then the council was relatively new in the job, and the text message showed poor understanding, also because it was wrong. The religious school got no because just the legislation gives room to say no based on discretion. Not only should he not send the text message, but the conclusion in the text message he sent was also crazy. [[Laughter]] This is something that the representative Giske can use as an argument that it is possible to treat this type of law strictly. The representative de Ruiter began to talk about the law passed in 2005–06 opening up to abuse of public funds. Point one: abuse of public funds is prohibited and dividends are prohibited. The second is that when the red-greens created a new law – or changed that law – they did not change the rules on dividends and the use of public funds. In fact, we are four parties that now agree to tighten up, and ensure that the legislation is clarified so that it becomes more difficult to abuse those funds. In the end: I myself have been in municipal government and in county councils and have proposed to give the public schools greater freedom to form so-called theme schools, or profile schools, most recently in Akershu County when I sat there. The parties that were most eager to say that we shouldn't have it – we shouldn't have free schooling, not theme schools, not profile schools in public schools – are the same three parties that today are voting against this law. If you are for the diversity that I am, as well, in public school, at least agree to introduce free school choices – and say that the schools can develop more freely than they can today – but it is the red-greens who vote it down, also locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1891	The representative, Martin Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1894	In the 2007 compromise on which we are based, it is that the establishment of Christian schools is about parental rights and is therefore not covered by the right of veto, as we see it. However, neither the Council of State, the faction leaders of the various majority parties nor others have helped to clarify what the definition is on the basis of the profile schools. The profile schools that the case rapporteur from the Christian People's Party, Anders Tyvand, is now involved in introducing into the new private school law, he has not been involved in defining and giving clarity to us, or to the outside world. This is what we take with us when we go to the vote later today, but that is what the representative Giske says, that it will then be up to the regulation, the work of the Council of State and the government's discretion to establish that basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1899	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1913	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1922	I would like to be allowed to thank the proposers behind this proposal for drawing attention to a theme on which we are all concerned. This issue is about how to ensure the admission requirements for teacher training, so that they help recruit good teacher students to future school. At the same time, I would like to thank the Committee on Commitment and Good Cooperation. We all see that there is a clear link between professionally strong teachers and students' learning. Good teacher training is necessary to equip the students to meet the day-to-day meeting them in the classroom. In the Committee, we recognise that there is a link between what students can get into teacher training and what they can do when they go out and finish. I expect the proposers to explain their views, so I will now look into the views of the government parties on the matter. In the Sundvolden Declaration, the government announced that it would increase the recording requirements for learning, in both Norwegian, mathematical and English. And the Teacher Lift, which was launched in the autumn of 2014, says that the government will raise the quality requirement in mathematics from 3 to 4 from higher education. This is a step by step part of the policy announced in the Sundvolden Declaration. As a consequence, the recording regulation has now been amended. From 2016, the entry requirement for primary and teacher education will be 35 school credits, grade 3 in Norwegian and grade 4 in common secondary mathematics. It appears that the proposers for this proposal share the government's intention to strengthen the recording requirements to address the teacher training requirements of today's requirements. I think that is positive. The proposers wish to ask the government to ensure that the grade 3 in Norwegian and mathematics remains as a minimum entry requirement, but at the same time they will ask the government to introduce requirements that applicants for teacher training who do not have the grade 4 or higher in these subjects will pass a compulsory pre-school course in both Norwegian and mathematics in order to qualify for admission. So it looks like they really want more stringent requirements – higher than the grade 3 in Norwegian and mathematics – but with a slightly different set of requirements. Proposalers want two compulsory courses to compensate for the lack of competence beyond what can be expected with the grade 3 from secondary school. I refer to the Government's response letter of 12 May 2015, in which he comments on the proposal for a representative and points out the challenges related to the scope of the proposal and to the winding-up of two sets of advances, and in particular the advances in Norwegian, as well as the impact this could have on the search and admission of the studies. The Council of State stresses in the letter that the Government of the Sundvolden Declaration has set high ambitions for teacher training, with increased admission requirements in the three subjects of Norwegian, math and English, and that the government is now taking the first step in increasing the character requirement in mathematics. In order to compensate for any recruitment failure, an advance in mathematics is added. That's the idea of gradually moving forward, gaining experience and finding good solutions. We all know that the good teacher is not only professionally strong, but also has the ability to learn away, to communicate, to care about children and young people and to be a clear leader in the classroom. It's important both for students' learning and for getting a safe learning environment in school. The challenge is to get the right students to apply for teacher training, to carry it out in a good way and to stay in school. It is therefore exciting that the Committee in this case also makes a proposal for a decision asking the government to facilitate the possibility for the educational institutions that so desire to conduct admission interviews for candidates for teacher training. It could be a good addition to recording requirements related to points and grades. I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1948	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for a good explanation of the matter's content and our attitude. I think we're together on the most important thing, namely that we want professionally good, motivated, strong-relations and good teachers in Norwegian school, who have good knowledge and insight into the subjects in which they teach, good ability to motivate and evaluate the students, good relationship skills and good ability to communicate. Good teachers are important. But it's not only important that they have a good education – it's also important who gets into the education, and that we can recruit the best young people into the teaching profession. It is primarily about making the school attractive, making the profession interesting, having confidence in the teacher as a professional, having a community economy that allows you to have room for action to carry out what you want and dream about in the teaching profession, help each student and have time to follow them up. There is also no doubt that having a good professional background from high school when you enter a high-level teacher education, and thus get the greatest possible benefit from what you learn over the four or five years, is also essential. That was the background to the introduction of recording requirements under the government of Stoltenberg – 35 points now. We need 3 in mathematics and 3 in Norwegian. This has been agreed in many governments, including the Bondevik government, but in the election campaign, the Right said that this should be substantially intensified. The right-wing election programme 2013–2017 states that the right will: ‘requires grade 4 or better in Norwegian, math and English for admission to teacher training; [[...]] This is what Kristin Halvorsen said no to and got sharp criticism from the Right People. We from the Workers' Party said, let's keep the grade 3, but introduce the lead for those with only the grade 3. Now that Røe Isaksen has occupied the chair, full of action and executive power, the requirement for 4 in Norwegian is dropped, the requirement for 4 in English is abolished, and the requirement for 4 in mathematics is actually also deleted. Now you've said that if you don't have 4, you should also be able to get in if you take an advance. In fact, in the letter of hearing, this was formulated so that they could enter with the grade 2, given that they took an advance. It has been later clarified by the Council of State that it was not meant to be, so here you have to keep the requirement of 3 to get into the advance. So the reality is that you get right in if you have 4, and if you have 3, you have to take a slope. Does this sound familiar? Yes, that's exactly what the Workers' Party proposed in the election campaign, but that was too bad. Former school politician for the Right, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, said this in an interview: ‘Introducing enhanced character requirements is something the Government can only do’. Then you would think, after such a clear and clear promise in a program formulation was rewarded with election awards, and then you put almost all of these promises aside, that you walked a little quietly in the doors. No, then, in a big headline in the VG, the Minister of Knowledge says that at least 4 are needed to get in, and as VG writes: ‘This is how Minister of Knowledge Torbjørn Røe Isaksen follows up the warning of the blue-blue parties in his government statement. [[...]] So we're trying, from the opposition's side, at least to give the Council of State a kind of crutch to stick forward, by giving him the opportunity to introduce an advance in one of these other subjects that he promised to demand the character 4 in, which is Norwegian. And I'm going to think that most professionals would say that Norwegian is at least as important to a good teacher as mathematics. You can, I think, do quite well as a learner in English, art and crafts and many other subjects without being a math specialist, but the Norwegian profession is left in absolutely every subject. I guess that's the subject, with reading and writing, which is the basis for most of the learning. To introduce an advance in this – we could, of course, help the Council of State with the proposal on character 4, but we take it carefully, so that the power of action is not overly challenged, and gives him the opportunity to vote for such an advance in Norwegian – the answer from the Council of State is that it should not be given any of that. It's just to go too far. This is what we are going to vote down. However, it is nice to register that, among other things. The Christian People's Party in this case is behind a proposal which has the support of a minority, and which will not receive a majority, contrary to what the case-rapporteur in the previous case said, that he is only going to enter where he can try to get a majority. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1983	There's no time for speech. I assume that the representative will take up the proposals of the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1988	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1993	The representative Trond Giske then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e1996	In the Sundvolden Declaration, the government announced that it would intensify the admission requirements for access to teacher training. The government's strategy The Teachers' Lift, which was launched last year, says that the government will raise the quality requirement in mathematics for admission to teacher education from grade 3 to grade 4 from higher education. In the first instance, the entry requirement in mathematics is tightened, and it will apply from the autumn of 2016. It's necessary. The Progress Party believes that Director Arild Steen of the Institute for Research at the Institute for Labour was right when, on 26 January, he spoke to the Evening Post: ‘A professional status is also determined by the competence requirements. The more difficult it becomes to enter the study, and the fewer places available, the more the status grows.’ That's part of the solution. A status lifting of the teaching profession is necessary. The teacher is the individual who plays the most important role in the student’s learning. Then we must have confidence in the teachers and ambitions of the teaching profession, the school and the students. The Progress Party believes that enhanced admission requirements for teacher training will be included and ensure that the teacher students have sufficient competence in the basic subjects. Skilled and motivated teachers are the key to a good school. At the same time, the Progress Party will underline the importance of good and attractive teacher training, which is relevant to the tasks and challenges of a newly trained teacher meeting in school. Training institutions are responsible for providing their students with sound professional competence in all disciplines. The extension of primary school teacher education to a five-year master's degree provides good opportunities for the building of the necessary professional skills, as well as for the provision of more practice and more professional immersion. We believe that we need to look at the efforts of the teachers, the Teacher Lift, in a whole. Sharpened admission requirements combined with a new five-year master's education for teachers will in the long run help train more skilled and highly skilled teachers, which is essential for Norwegian students to learn more. That's the main thing: the students have to learn more and better. In this context, the importance of good teachers cannot be stressed enough, but all parties must show will and have ambitions on behalf of knowledge. Norwegian children live in the best country in the world. They are also entitled to receive the best education in the world. The Progress Party will not agree to talk down Norwegian teachers or Norwegian teacher training. On the contrary, we take Norwegian teachers, educational institutions, students and students – the teachers of the future – seriously and take it for granted that they show a willingness to step up their efforts. The effort must be stepped up in all stages. Increased character requirements mean that students need more to get good enough to get into teacher training. In particular, they need to be better in real science, where we are now increasing demands. We must not be so blinded by oil wealth that we believe in national self-righteousness that Norway can meet the welfare challenges of the future by being good at understanding democracy and working together alone. It is the hard subjects, the real ones, that are concretely value-creating and innovation-driven. Norway’s value-generating industries are competence-based and will be even stronger in the future. Oil and gas, renewable energy, maritime, offshore, marine, finance and ICT are value drivers to safeguard the welfare society of the future. These are different industries, but they all have one thing in common: they're based on real science. Increased demands for teacher students are an important building block to ensure future well-being, prosperity and value creation. The party of progress is very pleased that this is now being introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2025	We all agree that we need good teachers in Norwegian school, and we all agree that it is important to recruit the right candidates into the teaching profession and into the teacher training. The government believes that the best solution is to raise the character requirement in mathematics from higher education, from grade 3 to grade 4. That means that someone who dreams of becoming a Norwegian teacher, or someone who has a dream of teaching in social sciences and history, can risk not getting into teacher education because you are not good enough in algebra or are not good enough to solve equations with three unknowns, even though you have good grades, a good diploma and are strong in the subjects in which you want to deepen and teach. I'm afraid we can miss good teachers in the future with such a policy. By raising the math requirement, we secure candidates who are strong in math. But it's probably a rather accurate method of recruiting the best Norwegian talents and the best Norwegian teachers. The proposalers of the Workers' Party have a different approach, but the basic idea is the same. In order to get the right candidates to receive teacher training, it is necessary to raise the character requirements. They have a slightly broader approach. They'll look at both the Norwegian and the math character. They will maintain the requirement for grade 3 in Norwegian and math, but require candidates who are not grade 4 or better to pass a compulsory course before being qualified for admission. I think it makes sense to demand good Norwegian knowledge as to demand good math skills, because good knowledge and skills in Norwegian will have meaning and value no matter what subject you are going to deepen in, and no matter what subject you are going to teach in. I don't think we can say the same thing about mathematics, at least. I believe, in any case, that making more stringent character requirements is the wrong medicine. Being professionally strong is of course important in order to become a good teacher, but good grades are not the only thing to do. Having a six in math doesn't necessarily mean you're going to be a good math teacher. That definitely doesn't mean you're going to be a good Norwegian teacher. Being a good teacher requires a lot more. It requires the ability to communicate, the ability to create a relationship with other people, the ability to communicate and the ability to be a clear leader in a classroom. These are qualities that don't come through a character or a diploma. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee is now asking the government to facilitate the possibility for the educational institutions that want to do so to set up a system of admission interviews. In this way, you will be given a better opportunity to create an impression of the personal characteristics, suitability and motivation of the candidates to go into the teacher’s study. This is not something we want to make compulsory or press the institutions to implement, but we want to facilitate it for those who want it. I believe that the requirement to be admitted to an interview should be 35 points and the grade 3 or better in Norwegian and mathematics. It may well be that there are candidates among the applicants who can be seen to be able to make a good Norwegian teacher, even if you do not have a foursome in math. I would like to take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV, as it appears in the setting. The Christian People's Party will not support the proposal of the Workers' Party. The size has increased the requirement for professional immersion in the field of education, and it is at the level of teacher training that students should acquire the necessary professional knowledge. I think it's completely different things than enhanced character requirements that are needed to raise the status of the teacher's profession and the teacher's training. First of all, I believe that we need to look at the framework of the teaching profession. More time for each student and fewer time thieves are two important keywords to improve the working life of teachers. This will help more teachers to thrive in the job, more teachers to stay in the job, and more teachers to become teachers. Then maybe the character requirement for entering the study will be pushed up in any case, without there being anything we need to adopt politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2046	The representative Anders Tyvand has made up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2050	There is a broad political consensus that the competence and suitability of the teacher are the key prerequisites for the quality of teaching. Therefore, teacher training, skills requirements and continuing training have also been on the political agenda for several years. The same applies to the introduction of recording requirements for teacher training. As is well known, since 2005, applicants for teacher training have been required to have at least 3 grades in the subjects of mathematics and Norwegian and at least 35 credits in order to be admitted to the teacher’s study. The government has announced what they believe to be more stringent admission requirements from 2016, and the Workers' Party believes that the government's proposal really means removing the requirement for the grade 3 in mathematics, and opening up that everyone with the characters 2 or 3 in mathematics can enter, provided that they complete an advance course. Thus, the requirement for grade 4 is not real. The Central Party believes that today's demands for admission are good enough. We do not share the belief of the government or the Workers' Party that if we set up the character requirement centrally, we will automatically get better teacher training. It might have been more important to ask the question: is this a tool for recruiting the students who will be the best teachers? The teacher training recruitment campaign asks the question, ‘Do you have it in you?’ The question is good and goes to the core of the challenge: How do those who have it in them motivate to learn? Mathematics is important -- no doubt about it. But many people who are applying for the teacher's study are not going to teach mathematics. In this way, the government and the majority should be more concerned that there is no character requirement for the nursing study, as nurses should actually calculate and provide proper medication for patients. Teacher training is a demanding study. The central party agrees that it is important that the students being admitted have the prerequisites for carrying out the study. But there are several considerations that need to be balanced against each other, which the representative Tyvand was also involved in. We think it's more important what students come out of competence than what they come in with. The teacher’s study shall ensure that the trained teachers meet the requirements of competence and are fit for the profession. Therefore, good quality in education itself is more important than the conduct of symbol policies and the setting of stricter recording requirements. We're more concerned that potentially skilled teachers won't be applying for teacher training because they don't meet the admission requirements in mathematics. Increased character requirements and polemics around this only give a signal that today's teacher students do not achieve professional goals. It's going to be wrong. If you do not keep quality objectives professionally or personally, you must be instructed out of the study. I would like to refer to a statement by the head of studies and first amanunensis in mathematics at the teacher's education at the University of Oslo and Akershus, stressing that stricter admission requirements in themselves are not decisive: ‘Every student who has taught mathematics in teacher education for a while may well be able to tell about students who have had a weak starting point but who, through hard work in education, have graduated from the study with brilliant results. Some have used their own misconceptions in mathematics as a resource in the work on the subject, the subject and the students in practice. And we've had students with good grades from high school who only know mathematics at a technical level and can't understand the background well enough to explain mathematics to students." The purpose of education is actually learning. So it's possible to get better in a profession that you've got the grade 3 in in higher education. Printouts show that there will be too few qualified teachers in the years to come. Stricter recording requirements, at least in the short term, could lead to weaker recruitment to the teaching profession. The figures from the department show that 30 pst. of the students in 2014, would not be able to find out if the requirement was grade 4 in mathematics. Finally, we are in favour of the Christian People's Party's proposal to try out recording interviews for the institutions that want it, and we are pleased that the Christian People's Party also believes that today's demands for 3 in Norwegian and mathematics and 35 primary school credits are a good enough starting point to become a good teacher.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2079	Now all the speakers before me have brought out the teacher as the most important resource in school, and of course I will join in. Having highly professional teachers is important, but setting character requirements for admission to teacher training – which this case is about – is only part of a larger whole. I fully agree with the committee leader Trond Giske, who says this is about many more things as well. It's about lifting the whole school. For us in the Left, admission requirements for teacher training are one of many things we have to do to lift the school and to raise the status of the teaching profession. This is due, inter alia, to: together with a five-year teacher training course. It is also natural to see this in the context of career paths in classrooms, further education and other things you do in school, to lift the school, lift the teacher, and in that way move the school in the direction you want. Character requirement 4 in mathematics is one step on the way where we want to go. At the same time, it's important to us that we do it in a practical way, and I feel that that's what this advance is all about. It is about introducing character requirements, but doing so in an appropriate way, and then we also have to allow this advanced course to make it a little smooth for those who are going into teacher training. I think the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and SV on recording interviews is a very exciting proposal when it becomes a supplement to the character requirements. As a committee, we have been on a study trip to Finland, where they use admission interviews as part of the criteria for entering the education. Now Finland has a slightly different starting point than what we have, because teaching in Finland is one of the most attractive courses you can take, but that's where we really want to go. When we can choose from the same starting point as in Finland, we have really succeeded with teacher training, with the teaching profession and with the status of the teaching profession. So I think it's an exciting proposal and a good supplement to character requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2090	Having the character requirements for teacher training is a signal to those attending high school today that the teaching profession is exciting, challenging, and that it requires some of you, but it can also contribute to the quality of the studies. It can contribute to the recovery of implementation, it can also contribute to the improvement of the professional level, and of course, as implementation progresses, it can also contribute to the reduction of non-response. As I have also written in the comment on this recording, it draws absolutely in the same direction as the government. However, I will comment briefly as to why I believe we should not do this now. Let me first just stay a few seconds by the story. When Kristin Clement in his time in Bondevik II proposed the character requirements that apply today, it was very controversial. The minority parts of the Stortinget wrote at the time that there was no link between the characters and how you function as a teacher. They thought it might be risky to ignore the content of teacher training. No one uses argument anymore, no one wants to remove the character limit we have today to bring up teachers' students. On the contrary, there is now a great deal of consensus that even more stringent requirements should be met. Then we're on, and I'm going to explain a little bit why I don't mean we're going to do this right away. Let me take the small reason first, with the proposal for a representative of the Workers' Party. It's a little semantics and it's not crucial, but the Workers' Party here suggests that you keep the grade 3, but that you have to have a test that gives you some kind of competence for grade 4, that's that grade 4 becomes the real recording requirement. Then I think it's clearer with our model, which says it's the character 4 which is the recording requirement, but by having the grade 3 you can qualify for a test, which you'll then take. But as I said, it's a smaller thing. What we have sent out is an increase in the character requirement from 3 to 4 from the academic year 2016/2017. It is now provided for in higher education admission regulations. We have also assessed compensatory measures, and that is simply because we also need to take account of recruitment in a real and not non-profit world. For this reason, it is now provided that applicants with an average mathematical characterisation of at least 3 who have a national course in mathematics prior to the start of their studies will also meet the new knowledge requirement. So, as in today's order, it's different rules for those who have program subjects, that's depression in mathematics. The great reason why I believe we should not do this now is not about – as the representative Giske said – that we have lost the ambition to strengthen the character requirements. We still have that ambition. But it's not to hide that this has also been a controversial proposal. In other matters we have had here today, critical emphasis has been placed on the input from professional bodies, from organisations, recordings that have been made in the consultation round. There is a balance between high character requirements and recruitment. I am quite convinced that higher character requirements in the long term can also provide better recruitment, simply because of the signal it sends. But having a gradual escalation of character requirements is, in my view, a wiser approach than introducing all character requirements at once. It is not an assessment of the importance of the subjects, because I fully agree with the representative Giske, who says that Norwegian is a completely crucial and absolutely central subject. It is simply a matter of when political ideals meet the realities of the sector, I believe it is a responsibility to implement it gradually, and to implement it so that we can both ensure higher admission requirements and at the same time not get more recruitment problems than it may look like we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2105	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2108	Not only in the Right Programme, but in fact also in the Government Declaration, it says that one should require the grade 4 or better in Norwegian, mathematics and English for admission to teacher training. Now the Council of State says that the reason why you can't do that is because the ideals have to be balanced against reality. That's a good principle, but the question is where the Right was in all those years Kristin Halvorsen, Bård Vegar Solhjell, Øystein Djupedal, Jens Stoltenberg and many others explained to the Right that this was the reality. Didn't you know in 2013 that this was reality? Did you actually have to enter the Ministry of Knowledge and get the competent officials there to explain that the Right Policy was not feasible? My question is, what was the reason for writing this into the government statement, you just didn't know better?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2115	Our ambition is exactly the same, our ambition is what's in the government statement, and it's about balancing it up against recruitment. If you had given the previous government a few years, if you had started in e.g. 2007 with a character requirement 4 in mathematics, we might now have done the escalation we want, drawn experiences and seen how to introduce an advance course – and today we had achieved our ambition, namely the character 4 in Norwegian, math and English. That it was not done before, the previous government must answer for it. But it's quite obvious that we've now strengthened the character requirements of mathematics. We will draw some experience from this, including: to see how we are going to build a forward-looking system, for which the Workers' Party is also in favour. After that we'll see how we're going to move on, take the next step.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2122	I think this has to be said to be in the same drawer as another requirement, namely that teachers from the first stage should have depressions in the basic subjects they teach. It should not be taken from the drawer – fully in all schools – until 2029. Of course, in the same drawer there are also proposals from a government party – at that time in opposition – to remove all tolls, to remove the NRK licence, to ensure that pensioners follow wage developments, etc. It's a drawer that's getting pretty full. What's an interesting question, though, is why mathematics is more important than Norwegian. So now you're going to have the right to have a majority here in the hall to also introduce an advance rate in Norwegian. Governments point out that it is better to say character requirement 4, but exceptions for those who are grade 3, than to say character requirement 3, but with requirements for those who are grade 4. There's something called the commutative law in mathematics, which says that the order in these additions doesn't matter, so it probably goes the same thing. But what's the reason why you don't do the same thing with the Norwegian language? It must be an excellent opportunity at least to take a step towards what is stated in the Government Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2131	That's a very good question, and there are some reasons why we started off with mathematics. I probably don't have to justify why mathematics is also important. It is likely that the representative will agree. One reason is that you finish mathematics after two years, at least for the students who are here, because the science is not up to date. But in other words, you have plenty of time to prepare for an advance. In our opinion, mathematics is also easier to make an advance in. Norwegian has 393 hours divided over three years, it's twice as big as the common science of mathematics. Our assessment is that it is far more difficult to carry out an advance in Norwegian than it is in mathematics. But since we're busy getting started -- we don't have eight years where we can't act, we're busy getting started, we're busy tightening up the recording requirements -- we're starting with mathematics now. It is good that the representative Giske's party, who was in a minority and opposed the admission requirements when they were proposed by the former State Council, Clement, is now an ardent driver of stricter requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2140	Let me first say that in our proposal there is no specific definition of how this advance rate in Norwegian should be, so if the Council of State is concerned that it becomes too extensive, we are fully able to engage in a dialogue on this, adopt it here today and create a practical, good solution that satisfies that this does not become too extensive. However, there is a very important question that has not yet been clarified, and it is whether these students should first be included in the teacher's study and then take an advanced course that they must pass in order to continue the teacher's study? I saw the Council of State describe that this was after inspiration from engineering education, where it is most often so. Or are you going to take an advance course that you pass, and then apply to get into the teacher's education? In case that's the last one, why can't you just as well take up the subjects from higher and better grades that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2145	You have to take the lead to get a recording for the study, that's the model we're going to add up to. I must also say that the representative Giske has been very eager to ask questions about this matter, and that has been very good, because then we saw among other things. that it was not quite precise, as the representative Geske said, that it was explicitly stated that it would be character requirement 2 to get in. But it wasn't explicitly stated that you couldn't get on a lower-grade advance than 3. Then we got a chance to close it. This is an important and good contribution from the representative Giske to the government's policy. We're impatient, we're starting this from 2016. Ideally, such schemes should be implemented in such a way that students who start in higher education know from the very beginning what they have to deal with. We have here the expectation of getting started by implementing it, and by starting with a higher recording requirement. That's why we start in 2016, and the reason for starting with mathematics, I've already given.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2152	I think this is interesting, because this is important for those students who actually go to high school and are going to prepare for a teacher's education. Now the Council of State – that’s a straightforward clarification – says that the course should be taken first, then you have to apply for admission and get in. You have some temptations, etc. to deal with. Questions about this are: Is it the university that is going to offer this advanced course? Do you have to apply to the institution you're going to? Do you need an exam that you pass? If you're going to have it, why can't you just tell the students that they're going to take up the subject in which they're too low and get a grade of 4 in high school instead of a grade and what the Council of State calls a level of competence equal to grade 4? It's a very strange way to do it all the time when you're not going to choose the engineering education model, with first and then advanced admission. In fact, you have to have an advance course first and then an application for admission.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2160	This starts to remind me of another matter we had, where there was also agreement, at least between our two parties, but where there were still very many questions. That is a good question for the representative. I ask for understanding that not all details of the advance are clear. What's important, and the reason why you should have a course and not simply tell the students that they're going to take the private exam, is that the purpose of the course is to get up on grade 4, which is the level corresponding to grade 4 or higher. We also assess whether it can be combined with solutions for those who want to take a private examination. It's going to happen, just because you're leaving after two years in high school. I became somewhat unsure why the representative Giske thought this was unclear, because, as I see it, the curfew is the core of the Labour Party's policy, which really wants an admission requirement on grade 3, but an advance rate that I suppose should have level 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2171	I think it's great that the Right Teacher, because it's not that many years ago that the then school-political figure, Elisabeth Aspaker, went into a powerful attack on Kristin Halvorsen because Nesna had introduced an advance in mathematics. But now leave it. It is not entirely immaterial, neither the time factor nor the possibility of this forward rate, for example. for students who do not live in a place where a university is established, how this offer is actually to be made. We have not specifically stated in our proposals whether this should be taken before or after admission. You may have to get recorded, but then you had to make an advance. It's actually quite common -- it's the most common way of taking an advanced course in higher education. Now the Council of State says to create a different model for this. And then it's kind of strange, because you also emphasize the point that it's going to take a year, when you're done with math, that you can't just take up the character. But it may have been too expensive to take a private examination during the current government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2178	Now there was a broad majority on the Stortinget who said yes, and as far as I registered, there was no one when the budgetary procedure was, who protested against the private taxes. But to explain the reasoning of the representative Giske, it is precisely because we want a clear and consistent character requirement to deal with. In other words, if you have an advanced course that is embedded in the education, you enter the teacher's training with the grade 3. We want this to be a clear, uniform, understandable requirement. That means you come in with the grade 4 - if you don't get the price. Then it must be in front of the education, not in the education. So when this scheme comes, I want to come to Stortinget and answer all the details and all the questions about how this works, but I'm asking for understanding that when this comes in 2016, we've come a lot further on the way, of course, than you've done in a Document 8 proposal. But all the details are not nailed yet, and then it would be wrong for me to speculate more than I have already done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2187	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2203	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2210	First, I want to take the opportunity to thank the Christian People's Party for raising this important matter again. Then I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation through the matter. It is a unanimous committee that today asks the government to present an action plan against antisemitism. Discrimination and persecution of Jews have a centuries-long history behind them, and the Nazi extermination is perhaps the worst part of that history. Unfortunately, we see that antisemitism is increasing in Europe today, across what we all want. If we take 2011 numbers from Oslo School, we see that every third high school student with Jewish background has at least two to three negative experiences per month related to his religious background. We don't want it like that. In recent years, we've also seen several attacks in Europe where Jews have been hit just because they are Jews, and an example of this being attacked in Copenhagen, as we all know. The work on combating antisemitism and racism has been going on for a long time, both under this government and under the previous government. But it's obvious, now that we see that anti-semitism is increasing, that we still need to focus on this, and that we need to step up our efforts against this. The Committee has identified the unique capacity of the school to carry out awareness-raising activities, as the school is an important shared area in which all young people participate. On behalf of the Committee, I would like to say that we look forward to the important further work to be done on the action plan against anti-semitism.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2221	There is no need to make this debate longer than it has to be. As chairman of the committee, I think, on behalf of the whole committee, I can say that this is what we all end up about. The rapporteur has presented the details and proposals in a good manner. There is a broad cross-political consensus, and the proposals go on much of the initiative launched by the previous government, and to which there was also wide support from the opposition at the time. We're going to have a school, an upbringing, a everyday life where all students feel at home, where everyone feels safe, where no one is being discriminated against. We've seen in recent years that the Jewish hatred has increased in Europe. We've seen xenophobia of many kinds, and also in Norway we hear stories about kids and young people who feel they have to hide their Jewish background, or who get tossed into the schoolyard. Let me, therefore, also, as committee leader, send a cross-political message from this pulpit so that no doubt is left: we do not accept this, we shall stop this, we shall stand up for it and be active in it, both in the Norwegian school and in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2228	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for the good cooperation and presentation of the content of the matter. I would also like to thank the representatives of the Christian People's Party who have promoted the proposal for an action plan against anti-semitism. Unfortunately, it is most necessary to make this clearer on the agenda. In the past, the Progress Party has made several proposals in this area. In addition, we have supported several proposals aimed at antisemitism promoted by the Christian People's Party. Studies in Oslo School in 2011 show that bullying and harassment of students with Jewish faith in the Norwegian school are increasing. Some parents even say that they consider moving from Norway because of the harassment to which their children are exposed. It also emerges that several teachers no longer dare to teach about the Holocaust in a true way – this because teachers fear represals from students who, for various reasons, do not want to be presented with the historical suffering of the Jews. In order to counter antisemitism, it is necessary to work with attitudes both at school and in society. The Progress Party welcomes the response of the Council of State to the Committee, which refers to the possibility of developing teaching materials tailored to teacher training. A global study conducted by the US-based Anti-Defamation League shows that almost half of those who asked had not heard about the extermination of Jews during World War II. Studies show that 15 pst. by the inhabitants of Norway are classified as anti-Semitic. Furthermore, Norwegian men are more than twice as hostile to Jews as Norwegian women, respectively 21 pst. versus 9 pst. This shows that antisemitism is still widespread in Norway and that there is a need to counter these attitudes in society. Knowledge dissemination is thus one of the best means of increasing tolerance. There are several reasons why antisemitism must be taken seriously. One important factor is that Jews, of course, should be treated with respect and met with the same attitudes as others. Another equally important moment is that if we tacitly accept anti-semitism and harassment of Jews, it could form a ground for the formation of more extremist environments in Norway, with the fatal consequences it can have for society, and that is not the way we want it. Norway as a society has a little proud history of relations with the Jews. Perhaps the behaviour of the Norwegian authorities during World War II is most dramatic and shameful. On Sunday 25 October 1942, Chief of State Karl A. Marthinsen sent an oxygen telegram to the country’s police officers and surveyors, and the telegram was stamped ‘secret’. Here it was ordered that all Norwegian Jews be arrested. Personnel from the Nazi state police Germanic SS and from the ordinary police carried out the order quite quickly the next day. The Progress Party is pleased that there is at last a majority in the United Kingdom to draw up an action plan against Jew hatred and antisemitism. We are also pleased that the Ministry will consider various proposals presented in the proposal for a representative, as well as other measures to prevent racism. The Progress Party looks forward to constructive and good cooperation on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2245	Antisemitism did not arise with holocaust, nor did antisemitism disappear with holocaust. Antisemitism and Jewish hatred are a dark and long chapter in Europe's history. Jews have been persecuted and discriminated against in various forms over 2,000 years. Antisemitism lives on, and not enough, with what it is on the rise in Europe and in our own country. ‘Jewish’ is one of the most common shellfish words in Norwegian schoolyards. Many children and young people hide their identity because they do not dare to be open about who they are. Many fears of violence and physical attacks, and sometimes such events get quite close to us. For the last three years, we've seen more attacks where Jews are only hit because they are Jews. In February, a 37-year-old man was shot and killed while volunteering outside a synagogue during a Jewish confirmation in Copenhagen. More and more synagogues in Europe are asking for police protection because they fear being attacked. This testifies to some attitudes in our society that we have to take seriously, and that we have to fight. It might seem a little hopeless, and you might get a little bit disheartened. But at the same time, sometimes things happen that can give cause for hope and optimism. I think it was strong to see how some conscious, engaged Muslims took an initiative to form the ring of peace around the synagogue here in Oslo. It was a strong and fine sign that we want a society in which we protect each other and take care of each other independently of ethnic and religious affiliation. But we must not go into the trap of believing that antisemitism is primarily about the relationship between Muslims and Jews. Because it's far from the truth. We find prejudices and negative attitudes to Jews in all walks of life among different peoples. It is important to remember that for Norway, nothing started in Poland or Germany. For our part, it started here – at home in our own country, in Norwegian towns and cities, with our own attitudes towards other people. Ervin Kohn at the Anti-racist Centers, who are also the head of the Mosaic Religious Society here in Oslo, warns us against group thinking. That's a wise warning. When we divide people into groups, they attribute attributes to which group they belong, and collectively judge people, we dehumanize the human being. It's dangerous, and it has to be countered. We must work for a society in which every human being is recognized as an individual with an inviolable human dignity independent of group, regardless of ethnicity and regardless of religion. I believe that the school must be at the heart of this work, and the school must also take responsibility for teaching the students about antisemitism and about holocaust. The Christian People's Party believes that this teaching must be strengthened in all relevant subjects, so that the students get a good knowledge of the situation of the Jews from both a historical and a present perspective. In order to achieve this, it is important that teachers also have knowledge of antisemitism, Jewish hatred and racism in general. This must therefore also be strengthened in teacher training, both professionally and educationally. The Christian People's Party has repeatedly called for an action plan against antisemitism. We have never had a majority in the past two years, but in the last two years we have had a positive impact on some means of combating anti-semitism in the negotiations on the state budget. I'm glad that this time it's a majority for such an action plan, and that it's not just a majority, but actually a unanimous magnification that says this is something we need. We also say that the work on such a plan should be undertaken as soon as possible, and I hope that it will contain some of the elements that the Christian People's Party is calling for in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2264	The representative proposal of the Christian People's Party contains a number of proposals in the fight against anti-Semitic attitudes in our society. That's very good. Several similar proposals from the Christian People's Party have been annexed to the Minutes, last time last year. This does not mean that there has been no political involvement in the Storting for the work to counteract anti-semitism. As the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre refer to in the Committee setting, a number of measures are already in place that aim to prevent anti-semitism, including measures that include the proposals of the Christian People's Party. Once again, the party is promoting almost equivalent proposals like a year ago, and this time it has a majority, I think that is because the committee has agreed on one proposal: to draw up an action plan against antisemitism. The reluctance to the proposals earlier, at least on the part of the Central Party, has been the objection that it cannot be we in the Grand Duchy who are most qualified to develop measures that will be most useful in such a plan. So that's not how it can look in the newspaper today, that Christian People's Party gets its support for its individual proposals, but as the representative Tyvann sailed in, he hopes that part of the points will come into such a plan. This is a serious issue. Unfortunately, we have witnessed an increased threat to the Jewish religious community. The attacks in Paris and Copenhagen remind us that there has become a small world where information, attitudes and people with extreme views move quickly across borders. The work for knowledge and understanding is therefore fundamental and one of the most important things we can contribute to the school. We fear what we do not understand. Respect comes through increased knowledge through work against racism and antisemitism. In the evening post yesterday we could read an article from 16-year-old May Helene, who wrote, "Why are you messing with the Holocaust?" 70 years after World War II, with its terrible history, we can read that it is still haunted by the terrible thing that happened during the war, and that the word "Jew" is still used as a shell word. This feels very painful and hurt to many. It is unacceptable to accept that it continues. When it comes to using "Jew" as a shell word, I think there's a lot of people who don't really think about what they're actually doing when they use this term. We've managed to get rid of shell words before, and I think we can do it again if we want – if we stand together. I think it's possible to bring peoples and religious communities to life, but we think it comes through knowledge, communication and reflection, and this is very important as part of the school's work. However, anti-racist and anti-Semitic work cannot be left to the schools alone, depending on where we find all the kids. There may also be a need for information and awareness of part of the rest of the population. Many have problems distinguishing between factual criticism of the policy of the State of Israel, the peoples who live there, and people of Jewish descent. The red-green government started an important work against racism and anti-Semitism in 2010. As a result, a number of proposals were proposed in the Report. St. 22 for 2010–2011 on secondary education. Among other things, a course plan was to be developed for teachers. This is called Democratic Preparedness for Racism and Anti-Semitism. The Holocaust Centre is one of the institutions that has contributed to the development of this scheme. We are very concerned that this work continues and develops further. For this reason, it is good that a Joint Committee proposes the development of a plan against anti-Semitic work, and not that we should propose specific measures in this respect. We must take seriously that the Jewish minority in Norway feels insecure and under pressure. Then it's our job to make them feel safe and welcome in their own country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2283	Unfortunately, the issue of antisemitism is topical. Europe is experiencing increasing antisemitism. A comprehensive investigation conducted by the EU Fundamental Rights Agency last year among Jews in eight countries showed that 67 pst. said that antisemitism was a major problem, and three out of four thought it had increased in the last five years. The sphere is a central arena in this context. This is a work that has been going on over time. In 2010, Minister of Knowledge Kristin Halvorsen set up a working group with a mandate to present various proposals for action to combat racism and anti-Semitism in Norwegian schools. And in 2011, the Eidsvåg report could happen again, where there were several proposals. Several of the measures were also implemented. Some were referred to by Tingelstad Wøien. I would particularly like to highlight the launch of Dembra, democratic preparedness for racism and antisemitism. The basic idea behind Dembra is that excluding dembra and group hatred are nourished by insecurity and the feeling of outreach. The main means of combating exclusion and harassment in the school is, therefore, the creation of a democratic culture based on inclusion, participation, knowledge and critical thinking. This is about the core activity of the school – to equip students for democratic participation in tomorrow's society, as the Dembra project is formulated. It is a very important measure, and with this broad unity in the Storting there will also be more. In many ways the fight against antisemitism represents a struggle against man's darkest sides. I want to finish by reading a little letter found in Auschwitz in 1945, written by an unidentified concentration camp: ‘Dear Teacher! I'm a survivor from a concentration camp. I saw what no man should be witnessing: gas chambers built of skilled engineers. Children gas in the heels of well-trained doctors. Infants killed by experienced nurses. Women and their babies shot and burned by people with exams from high school and university. I've become skeptical of education. My prayer is: Help your students to become human. Your work must never produce learned monsters, skilled psychopaths, well-trained oakmen. Reading, writing and billing are important only if it serves to make our children more human." I would therefore like to say that this work is important. That's good. That's good. And it's important to have broad agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2299	I'll be brief. We are at the end of a long debate. That the work on combating Jew hatred and antisemitism is important and must be kept on the agenda even today, I think we have been very well explained by the other representatives, and I naturally fully support it. In my hometown, Kristiansand, last year I attended the annual holocaust day marking with 1,100 school students. The event was directed by the Foundation Archive in cooperation with the United Nations Association, the municipality of Kristiansand and the Norwegian Red Cross, and I think this is the Nordic's largest holocaust marker. It was the United Nations that decided in 2005 that 27 January would be the anniversary of the victims of the Holocaust. In 2011, we received the report It can happen again, where there was a strong need to strengthen the education of schools in this work. The Ministry of Knowledge then called on all schools to increase their skills among teachers and to put the day of holocaust on the curriculum. We agree that we cannot ignore the anti-Semitic attitudes of our time. We need active work and thoughtful action to combat and prevent attitudes. It's about the values and the knowledge we transfer from one generation to another, and it's about what kind of society we want. It made a big impression on the students in Kristiansand to hear the story of Mona Levin and her family. And it made a big impression to hear the story of the Jews in Agder. Knowing the closeness of history, we equip our children and young people to recognize racism, discrimination and antisemitism. When I have chosen to speak on this matter, it is because I am concerned that in this context it must be possible to exploit the competences and resources of the institutions, such as the Archives Foundation, the Holocaust Centre, Falstad, the Narvik Centre, the European Wergeland Centre and others. Here we have many environments that already have a large contact area with the school sector, and with opportunities to develop it further. There are good arenas and environments of competence that schools can make even better use of. I hope that it can also be part of the further planning work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2312	Let me first express joy at the broad political consensus in this matter. It is a strength both in the work we are going to do with an action plan and in the long-term fight against anti-Semitism. As State Council responsible for national minorities, I am pleased that the Stortinget has raised anti-semitism and hateful opinions several times in recent years as a topic for debate. It's a warm commitment to this matter. I would particularly like to thank the Christian People's Party for presenting proposals both today and over a long time to combat antisemitism. Unfortunately, anti-Semitism and anti-Semitism performances have gained new momentum in Europe. The Committee's position refers to various studies — and experience — which demonstrate that antisemitism is a serious problem, including in this country. Antisemitism in Europe dates back thousands of years. Myths and notions about the Jews have been conveyed from generation to generation. We all know how these myths have been used to justify attacks on Jews and Jewish property, persecution and holocaust. Such myths of Jews still live in our society and are often expressed through anti-Jewish attitudes and conspiracy theories. As Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, I have the responsibility to coordinate government policy towards national minorities and thus also for the policy of the Jewish minority. My department will also coordinate work on the action plan against antisemitism. In our digital society, we must be aware that hateful expressions, discrimination and bullying can reach our minorities – yes, it can reach all citizens, at any time, day and night. It makes it particularly important that we combat the attitudes underlying this. We have a common responsibility for building up knowledge and building down prejudices. It's the responsibility of the big community to make sure that we're a society with space for diversity and minorities. The government has launched several measures, including: a project against anti-semitism in school and the mapping of educational materials. There will also be a new survey of attitudes in the population. In addition, the Storting has provided funds for information measures directed by the Mosaic Religious Society. Knowledge combats stereotypes, mistrust and conspiracy theories. In a liberal and open society, knowledge is our foremost means of fighting hatred and distrust. We have to agree on the values we believe in and respect for the individual. We build society and politics on a fundamental respect for the individual, regardless of faith and background. The size is also defined as the need for an action plan against antisemitism. The government aims to present the action plan in 2016, and I look forward to cooperation on the preparation of this plan. Work on drawing up the plan is already starting before the summer holiday with a larger recording meeting on 29 June. Here we will invite a wide range of views and experiences into the work on the plan. It is not the responsibility of minorities to fight prejudices, and it is not the responsibility of Jews to fight anti-Semitism. It's a common responsibility we bear as a big community, and where, as politicians, we have a commitment to go ahead. It is obvious that, as political leaders, we have a considerable responsibility to stand up for important values, and that we also go ahead in our everyday lives and show that respect for individuals is essential to the good community we have in Norway. We have a common responsibility to create a society of equivalency and understanding for each other. How we talk about others – at the kitchen table, among friends, at work and on social media – helps shape our society. My hope is that the action plan and the work we are going to do on developing the action plan can contribute to a positive change in the way we talk about each other, and to a reduction in antisemitism in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2350	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2364	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2371	The core of the ministry's proposal is to open for the grant of fishing rights to a vessel in exchange for the corresponding rights granted to another vessel, without regard to whether the vessel has the same owner. The proposal thus provides for two fleets to enter into a private-law agreement on the transfer of fishing permits without simultaneously transferring the vessel to which the fishing permit is attached. The requirement that it is the fisheries management that allocates the necessary fishing permits to the fishing vessel is fixed. The same applies to current and future exemptions from the activity requirement, as today, to be approved by the Ministry. Thus, such a private law agreement is not binding on the fishing authorities. The amendment also deals with the legal establishment of the applicable rules on the granting of concession, the replacement of vessels and the hall of vessels for continued operation, the splitting and the collection of operational bases. Today this is only allowed in regulations, and the Committee is united in the view that it is important and right to get everything together in a law. At that time, key elements of the concession award will be provided by the Act of Participation. The starting point for the split-up institute is the Ministry’s instructions of 15 January 1999, 7 July 2000 and 26 June 2003, where the purpose was to provide the owners of multi-boat crews with a flexible solution to decide for themselves which vessel the master wishes to fish with at any time his operating basis. Shipowners’ teams must today carry out at least three different application procedures to the fisheries management and, in addition, carry out the purchase and reconnaissance of one of the vessels. To this day, it has our demands for real transactions. There are currently no requirements for the new vessel to be used for the fishing of temporary owners, nor requirements for the duration of temporary ownership. The main objective of the proposal is to simplify this process, where a failure to make a real vessel’s front and back room in order to meet the requirements of the fisheries management. The Committee would point out that the simplification changes that are taking place here do not imply that we are legislating it if someone has circumvented or violated previous legislation. This simplification also does not mean that basic quotas can be split and transferred between vessels, and we stress that recruitment quotas are still not negotiable. What's new is the degree of translatability. But one is still subject to the freedom of discretion of the fishing authorities in order to obtain fishing permits. It is a joint committee that points out that solutions should not be prepared to undermine the new regime. Nevertheless, the Labour Party and the Centre are concerned about pointing out that it is important to follow closely the development of practice and, if necessary, to return to the Stortinget with action. But a clear plurality, all the extraordinary Right and Advance Party, sees it as important to legislate and emphasises that this new proposal does not involve the ‘free flow’ of permits between different vessels and fleets, and that it should be required that the individual allocation of fishing permits is given a more permanent character than that proposed – in order to avoid a new arena of ‘smart solutions’. Where the Committee separates layers, it is in the view of the obligation of activity. All, except the Right Party and the Progress Party, stress that the activity requirement of the Participant Act should be maintained as at present. In the light of the views of the Labour Party, there is also a strange point of view, in view of the fact that it cannot be guaranteed that the national requirement exists, if such a significant point of the Participant Act is changed, because there is a single committee which determines that the national requirement is to be met. The Labour Party assumes that the Government takes into account that there are no multiple Storting to change the activity requirement of the Labour Act, and suggests that this is reflected in what comes from the Government in connection with the treatment of the Maritime Industry Selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2397	What the rapporteur said very well is a simplification of the procedures we are dealing with here, as well as a matter of law. The background is that in the routines that have been, a boat company has actually been discriminated against. It has been more complicated to collect rights on one boat if you have had a shipping company with only one vessel, than if you had been a multi-boat company. So for us who are to have a variety of ownership even within the fishing fleet, this is a very good thing. The fact that the Right and Advance Party do not appear to be in possession of the activity requirement is not correct. What is the background to the fact that we do not have the comments of the Workers' Party and the Center's party, is more because of the need to mark a debate that is coming later than it has something really to do with this particular matter. So it's clear. That's why I want to boast of the Council of State, which has taken the initiative in this simplification. It's important to the shipping companies. The easier you can get your drift, the better it is. I want to insert that the next step should perhaps be to see if it is possible to get rid of the system that you need to have a watercraft to structure. Historically, the structural system is justified by the fact that it would not have the old condemnation system, where the public paid to get rid of old ships. Instead, the structural system was introduced, so that the industry took all the costs. Now we have a modern fleet, but a modern fleet that needs to structure a little bit to be efficient and rational. Then it might be that we're looking at a system where you don't have to have a watercraft. The vessels present in the fleet today are largely modern and may be easier to deploy in fisheries other than the need to chop them up and, where appropriate, to sell them out of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2408	I can fully join the post that the case rapporteur, Ingrid Heggø, held in this case. There is, of course, a common setting that underlies it. So I want to get into the comment that has a clarification of the activity requirement. It was claimed in the previous post, by Frank Bakke-Jensen from the Right, that this is due to the fact that the Center Party and the Workers' Party have a marking requirement. I would like to stress that there are four parties that support the comment on the activity requirement and a majority of the committee that states that the activity requirement should be maintained as today. Here is one that is at the heart of – or weakness of – this government’s fisheries policy. There's a lot of uncertainty. What are the future framework conditions? Since the Tveterås Committee presented its position, a debate has taken place. For example, they have been subsequently informed of their positions. the issue of the activity requirement, with the exception of the Government and the Council of State. I hope that the clarification that the Committee has now made on the activity requirement makes it possible for the government not to try to change today's activity requirements, but to read what is in the position of a majority in the Committee. So the debate has gone high on the Tveterås Committee. I was present at the annual meeting in the Fiskarlage West. There was the sample leader Tveterås present. I have to say that I don't think it's okay when the chairman says that part of the proposals in the NOU is primarily put in place to create a debate, and that he is satisfied with the debate – if I understood him correctly. A NOU shall just be a professional basis; it is part of the pre-processed legislative process. It shall not be a document for the purpose of creating debate and point formulations. It can rather take place in political debates, in reading articles and in chronicles. I hope that the clarifications made by the Committee – the entire committee on nationality requirements, and the majority of the committee on the activity requirement – will be noted and followed up by the government, so that a person will not have to fight about this later, when the notification of the follow-up to the Maritime Industry Committee’s work is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2421	With my knowledge of the fishing industry, this is a good proposal, according to the needs that exist. Thank you to the government and the committee, who are lifting up and changing a practice, which is both sensible and for the better. It is important that nutrition and authorities stand together and work for reasonably good framework conditions. I have over time had the pleasure of attending annual meetings in both fishing teams and boat teams and know the importance of this industry from the West. It is a vibrant and living environment that contributes to housing and jobs. If we politicians want to maintain and develop the fishing industry, we need to ensure that the framework conditions are forward-looking and developed in cooperation with these active environments of competence, which know where the shoe prints, or – even better – what waters we operate in. If we want a viable nutrition, we have to do our best to contribute to it. The proposal today believes that the Christian People's Party is willing to do so. First, I would like to promise that the law of participants imposes many conditions for the grant of a concession. This must be the case when it comes to managing one of our main economic routes, fisheries. This has to be managed in a sustainable way. The two most important are nationality requirements and activity requirements. There are different views on this, but the Christian People's Party believes that the nationality requirement of the participant law should be maintained. The main objective of today's proceedings is to simplify a process. It is in line with the objectives of most parties. The Christian People's Party has therefore noticed that the government also characterises the change as a pure simplification. Timely decisions we want to be on. Today, companies wishing to purchase quotas must carry out at least three different application procedures towards the fisheries management: applications for continued operation split and sale, if any, applications for the collection of operating bases and sales for continued operation. complete, in addition, the purchase and resale of one of the vessels; The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries proposes to facilitate the conclusion by two shipping companies of an agreement on the transfer of fishing permits, i.e.: the concession or admission of participants, without simultaneously having to take over the vessel to which the fishing authorisation relates. The proposal implies that only one application will be sufficient, and the purchase and resale of the vessel will not be necessary – a major step forward. The rapporteur stressed that the amendment of the law should not involve the free flow of permits between different vessels and shipping companies. Each fishing authorisation shall be required to be granted a more permanent character, over a quarantine period of two years. The rental of allowances shall not be lawful. The Christian People's Party therefore subscribes to the government's proposal to simplify the transfer of fishing permits. The Christian People's Party also adheres to the clarifications proposed by the case-rapporteur, as well as the introduction of two weeks' quarantine and the continuation of a ban on the rental of allowances. The Christian People's Party wants this to help simplify and strengthen the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2450	Basically, this is a simple matter, and I was not going to draw it out, because both the case rapporteur and the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen have put forward good arguments, but when Pollestad from the Central Party keeps the post he is making, I just want to remind you that this bill does not imply any change in the activity requirement of the participant law. In fact, some parts of the suspension are concerned, but the Advance Party and the Right are not involved, because there is no relevant question in this context. So it's like the government is now working on the follow-up to the Tveterås Committee. There is a sample that the previous government put down, and they have delivered their NOU, and that is the starting point for the government to work on that matter. So you've followed the normal game rules in that way. Then there are some parties that want to conclude before the government has made its notification to the Storting, which will be a complete assessment of what will benefit Norwegian fishing interests in the future. I particularly think the Central Party is really involved in spreading an unnecessary uncertainty based on what is underlying this proposition, and the normal rules for dealing with the NOUs and the government's responsibilities. For the proposition we are dealing with today, there is a significant simplification and cost saving for business operators and management, and it is a matter that has affected many fishermen. Looking at the hearing replies, the vast majority of fisheries organisations, not everyone, support what the government is putting up with here. I also note that there is a unanimous attitude behind this, so the consensus is significant, but some obviously want to spread unnecessary uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2459	I would like to start by thanking for the cooperation on the matter in the Committee and the presentation by the case-rapporteur, Mr Heggø. The left is satisfied with the changes the size of the participant law is currently making. We assume that the purpose of the proposal is to make it easier for a fishing boat company, for a boat owner, to be granted a fishing permit for its vessel if another vessel states the corresponding permit for its vessel. This is, to the most extent, a simplification in favour of both economic operators and management. Where at least three different application procedures are needed today, one with the proposal on the table today will deal with one application. It will save red tape and economic operators for additional work – work that can rather go to value creation. In the present situation, reference is made to the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, which states that the proposal in the hearing note does not alter the link between the owners of vessels, vessels and fishing authorisations, and that fishing authorisations may continue to be granted only by the administration, and that it is still necessary for vessels owners to apply for a fishing authorisation to a particular vessel in order to be able to fish and catch. This is important. I am making these points because they are the very basic elements of the management of fishing permits, basic elements that are still going to exist. This is important for the Left, just as it is important to adhere to today’s nationality and activity requirements. The requirements are well managed in the setting, and I feel sure that the purpose, the intention, with the change we are now dealing with, is well taken care of by the Minister for Fisheries. The changes that are now being made to the Participant Act welcome the Left. It is positive for the industry, and it is positive for the administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2474	I'm a little surprised that the committee is so consensual about the setting, and that there's no major discussion about these questions. Section 2 of the Marine Resource Act states that wild marine resources in Norway belong to the community, i.e. they cannot be made private-law objects. When the government now proposes to legalise the transfer of fishing rights, entrant rights and concessions without the ship being involved in the transaction, it encourages the privatisation of the community's ownership. So there is no simplification of the procedures, as the representative Bakke-Jensen claims. It's more than that. The changes proposed here imply that a multiple of Stortinget no explicitly recognises that the fishing authorisations are subject to a turnover. These are not my words, but are fixed by the Association of Lawyers in their hearing response. There's a big principal transition a multiple now on. The purchase and sale of allowances shall now be made to a greater extent without interference from the authorities. The Ministry may not have taken particular account of either the purpose of the Participant Act or of the Maritime Resource Act. The proposed changes cannot be in accordance with them. These proposals are therefore proposals to go even further in making fish quotas into real estate that can be translated into real estate. This means that quota barons and large companies will be able to gather large quotas even more easily, while coastal communities are weakening. It is particularly in the less-capitalised area with small players that will see the most deterioration, and then in my region, North Norway. In particular, we have a fisheries minister from just North Norway who is proposing these changes. This is also the reason why all county municipalities in North Norway, LO, Norway's Coastal Fisheries Team, the Norwegian Maritime Association and the Sametinge go against the proposed changes. At the same time, the proposal for changes is a very unfortunate signal of how Norway deals with the law. These changes mean that a person opens up for what was previously illegal. Acceptance for the purchase and sale of fishing permits will go against the objectives of securing coastal bushing and of facilitating the maintenance of marine resources for the benefit of the coastal population. In particular, rather than identifying the scale of the problem and then looking at measures to solve it, the government simply states that it is difficult to provide an overview. So there's a proposal that doesn't do the necessary prework. The proposed changes will undoubtedly lead to an additional trading activity and a leased quota market. The proposal will further recapitalise the right to fish, thereby deducting values from the primary levels of fishing industries and fisheries-dependent coastal communities and transferring them to banks, finance and any trading activity. I see the proposal as an attack on the self-appointed small-scale owner who is fishing with own vessels, by giving power and the ability of passive fishermen to operate quota rentals, so that the real fisherman comes into a dependency relationship with the quota owners. The proposal runs counter to the objective of the Participant Act to increase the profitability and value creation of the industry and to ensure coastal bus services and to benefit the marine resources of the coastal population. SV will therefore oppose the proposed changes and do not support setting up the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2487	The Government has submitted a legislative proposal on changes to the Participant Act. The central change consists in the so-called splitting of fishing authorisations between two vessels below, irrespective of whether the two vessels have the same owner. The aim is to simplify the process of granting a fishing authorisation, a process that currently appears to be very resource-intensive for all stakeholders. Both fishing industry and management will save significant costs if the proposal is adopted. This is a matter that many fishermen have raised with me, and the proposal also has broad support in the fishing industry. Today it is the case that shipping companies wishing to split fishing permits must carry out at least three application procedures vis-à-vis the fisheries management and also carry out the purchase and resale of one of the vessels. These requirements appear to be meaningless for the parties involved, and there is no reasonable justification in my view that this should be the case. The bill states that only one application will be sufficient, and the purchase and resale of vessels will no longer be necessary. Management deals with such cases annually between 100 and 200, so it is relatively easy to see that the proposal involves significant resource savings. This is simplification in practice. It is important for me to stress that the proposal does not involve changes to the underlying conditions of fishing authorisation. Shipowners will have exactly the same opportunities as before for a new fishing authorisation to be granted to their vessels. It's just the process of reaching this result that's now getting easier. The amendments do not affect any of the basic conditions for ownership of fishing vessels, such as the nationality requirement and the activity requirement. Nor are rules on ownership restrictions, regional bonds, etc. be affected. Fishing authorisations and quotas will continue to be granted by the management and will be linked to a specific vessel with which to fish. The Government has also assessed whether quarantine should be introduced by splitting fishing authorisations in order to avoid circumvention of the legislation. We have come to the conclusion that this is not necessary because existing legislation has provisions that adequately counteract such circumvention. Moreover, a quarantine period would limit the choice of shipping companies in view of the existing legislation, which does not contain any such provision. No one would have earned this. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee agrees that solutions should not be prepared to undermine the new regime. The main objective of the proposal is to facilitate very demanding application procedures. However, the proposal also has another positive effect by bringing together all the basic rules on the granting of fishing authorisations under the Participant Act. These are key rules on the sale of fishing vessels for the continued operation and replacement of vessels. However, there are no material changes to these rules, which are currently enshrined in regulations. It is clear that the most basic principles are thus enshrined in the Grand Duchy by a legislative decision and not just in the administrative regulations and practices. The proposal will also contribute to a more transparent and accessible industry fisheries legislation by allowing all the main provisions to be found in the legislation. In this context, the legislative proposal should make a significant contribution to a simpler and more user-friendly fisheries legislation. Too many resources are currently agreeing to unnecessary process work. Instead, resources should be used for more meaningful work in favour of the development of the Norwegian fishing industry and society. I am very pleased that there is an overall committee that agrees with this bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2510	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2514	Will the Minister for Fisheries respect a large majority and add to the idea of opening up so that the industry can also hold a boat and a quota?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2519	I am not surprised to get that question when the Center Party and the Workers' Party in the setting are behind these kind of comments. I point out that we have a process in which we are now discussing ourselves through all the hearing opinions that have come after the hearing on the report of the Tveterås Committee. This has not been a theme in the proposition that is now in Stortinget, and we will therefore come back when the government has made its decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2524	It's not just the Workers' Party and the Center Party that are behind that note, it's a plural remark from the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the two parties that are mentioned. The Tveterås selection is very uncertain whether there is any increase in profitability in this by moving over, so that the industry can own a boat and a quota. You can do this for fishers, they're the best at that. Industry is the best in industry. Does the Minister for Fisheries see that this works well the way it is today, and that it is a value we have to take care of, having a fishing area fleet? Why do you want to change something that actually works well?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2531	The government has not taken a decision as to whether we want to change or not to change the law of the participant. This means that it is not possible to interpret the Council of State in this way now – that if you don't want to say if you're not going to do anything, it means you're going to do the opposite. I'm concerned that we're going to have a good process now in the light of the large number of hearing opinions we've received, and I think it's going to be a short stop to the process of getting rid of yourself the opportunity to see things in a slightly larger context if you're going to go into the details at this point in time. Tida is not mature today. This has not been discussed in this matter. Therefore, it is not natural to ask out at this point today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2536	I'm rewording a little bit, because the minister didn't quite understand what I asked for: do you see the value of having a fishing gear fleet? We have that in Norway, but not so many other countries have. Do you see the value of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2541	The President reminds us that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2544	We have good experience with the way in which the fishing industry has been organised in Norway until today. This does not mean that we should not take seriously the discussions and proposals that have come from the Tveterås Committee, and they must also be assessed in the light of the challenges that we must also address that industry has. But I want to repeat: the government will come back, because we haven't concluded whether we want to do one or the other with the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2549	It may at least be okay if the Council of State has now got what the majority of the Storting's view of this matter is. I would like to ask a question about another comment in the vote, which the majority of the committee, with the exception of the members of the Right and the Progressive Party, is behind. It is said that this ‘proposal does not involve ‘free flow’ of permits between vessels/ships’. My question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State agrees with the majority of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2556	It's not about free flow. This is about simplifying very extensive and demanding application procedures. It is still the administration that will decide in each case whether the underlying assumptions have been fulfilled in order to transfer a fishing permit from one vessel to another, so I do not see that this proposal changes the practice that has been. The point is that we are now cleaning up very demanding application processes. Three applications become one, and we also get cleaned up in that way that everything is going to be found in the law, unlike what has been the case until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2561	As the pattern of the first trip in the nutrition debate, I made a mistake for the Christian People's Party. I'll make that clear. We do not support quarantine, as I was going to say – I forgot a word: ‘not’. I am still asking a question: can the Council of State indicate when this law is being implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2566	We want the law to come into force as quickly as possible. I can't say on the stand whether it's 1 July, or whether it's at a little later, but we want this to come into force as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2572	A lot of the intention and the goal of these changes is to make the transfer of allowances a more private law case. Then there is little to prevent renting allowances by agreeing to buy back at a price that is lower than the selling price, for example. subtraction by 25 pst. of the catch value. How is the government to ensure that no allowance rental market is developed?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2577	What this case is about is simplifying a practice that has been established for a long time in the Norwegian fishing industry. I believe that the representative draws a picture that is not correct in terms of how things should be handled in the future. It is still the administration that, on a case-by-case basis, is going to decide how the actual transfer of rights is going to take place, and I cannot see that what the representative of Knag County here says could become development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2582	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2585	What could initially have been a simple matter is not quite as simple anymore. Community and Community resources are often raised when discussing fisheries policy in Norway. In order to become a debate where you can label someone like quota barons and cellar rings, as SV would like to do, you have to make a simplification. The Community owns the fishing resources, owns the fish in the sea. The Community of the inhabitants of Norway, by the nation of Norway, has access to and manages marine resources. Then we have fishermen, active fishermen who have been allowed to fish, permission to fish this fish. It's something other than that they've got ownership of the fish. They have been granted permission to go out and be engaged fishermen. That's the big difference. Then the bubble of the representative Knag Fylkesnes breaks when he stamps all of the fishermen as quota barons, possibly potential kennel rings to try to conjure up 25-30 pst. as soon as they have a quota. That's not the reality. When the Right is out to meet fishermen, we meet nutritionists who deal with the legislation that exists, who occasionally despair because it is complicated and bureaucratic. It is difficult to be a businessman and create good jobs, safe jobs, modern jobs on the coast, so that you can recruit the young people, the good minds you need to take this industry further. As long as SV skips reality, they can travel around and describe a reality that does not exist, where most of the Norwegian fishing industry consists of cellar rings, unwinders and scammers. But it's actually not like that. That's why I recommend the representative of Knag Fylkesnes to read the Committee's position instead of bringing the scribblers to the Coastal Fisheries Team, because the committee's attitude describes reality in a completely different way – a much, much better way. So the comments on nationality and activity requirements. It's not like the Right Party and the Advance Party are against it, it's not like we're questioning it, but when there's a process going on, we want the political process to follow the expected procedures. It is striking what power the Senterpartiet and the Workerspartiet are now taking away from all the policies of the previous government. Here a sample has been reduced to deliver a NOU. Everyone agrees on the description of reality. We have a seafood industry in Norway that is struggling today, and we've put the wisest heads on this: what we want to do, whether there are things we can do to make this easier, so that we can have a long national value chain within seafood – from the keel, from the hook and to the consumer out there, so that the nation of Norway can make the most of this. So you're denying that today. The Tveterås Committee seems to be one of the worst Workers' Party and the Center Party has heard of, it shouldn't have been there. There will be a NOW, the government will deliver policy on it when that time comes. We have to respect that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2598	Hill-Jensen takes the reality of income separately, and then he owes me to use the "scriberia of the Coastal Fishery Team". So let's call that a contradiction of dimensions. When it comes to the liability of the Hill-Jensen, we are in contact with the fishermen: see the setting, to which you refer, and the listening announcement that the Coastal Fisherman team has come with. I ask the representative to take seriously the environment along the coast, take seriously the fishermen along the coast. We are not the ones who mark them as tusks and thieves – on the contrary: we defend their place in the value chain in Norwegian fishing. That's what's our fight in SV. We want coastal resources to come to the coastal community. We want it to be a living territory. We don't want fishing quotas to accumulate on fewer hands, on fewer actors. That's exactly the opposite of what the Right wants. In fact, they want to make it easier to translate, a looser participation law, so that there can be fewer operators in the fishing industry. We fight for the coastal population, for the small actors along the coast, and our starting point is that Norwegian fisheries policy should be based on the coast. So here, there's a lot of difference, and who's closest to the everyday life of each fish, it's going to be a little bit of a question for the fishers themselves, for example. Coastal fishing team. There's a reason one has a bureaucracy attached to this. What I fear with this change is that it is made like this is just customs bureaucracy, which there is no reason to have. But one reason why a person has had this kind of limit is just that one will prevent the development of a third enterprise, an allowance lease activity. I think it's a problem that we don't deal with the problems, that we instead make the problems into practice. I mean, one moves Norwegian fisheries in a completely crazy way. Unfortunately, what's the problem, and it's a way of adapting the law, it's actually a move towards easier trading, towards quota barons, i.e., the big players, not the small ones that are along the coast. I want to warn Stortinget against this, and I think it is sad that this is now going through in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2605	The President greatly appreciates the involvement in the cases, but recalls once again that all speech should be addressed to the President and that the word ‘you’ should not be used. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2621	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2628	It is an important day today, and it is an important decision and an important matter for those who live on and relate to Svalbard – or the top of the globe, as some people mention Svalbard as. In any case, it is gratifying that it is a unanimous committee that supports the government's proposal for a solution, and it is also essentially a unanimous position in the matter. The situation for Great Norwegian is demanding. There are different reasons why Great Norske has come into the situation in which they have come into being, and one of the factors is that there has been a significant fall in the price of coal over the last few years. In addition, there is a greater element than there has been in the past of rocks and gravel in the deposits on which they operate, and due to low coal prices, there are also large, unrealistic losses in currency hedge agreements. It's something that will sometimes turn out positive and sometimes negative. This has led to a very difficult situation, and after I have said this, I have to add that in the last ten years there have also been dividends of approx. 500 million. kr from the company, so it has also contributed and contributed. When you're in such a situation, it's about finding a good solution, both for the company, for the bank, and not least for the owners. The board presented a plan of measures to the government on 16 January, in which there was a loan of 450 million. SEK, including 50 million. kr for the development of new activities. The solution that the government has reached is considered a good solution by the Committee. So that's the purchase of properties for $295 million. NOK and there is a loan of 205 million. kr. This will – if things, as far as market prices are concerned, go as it seems from the expectations you have – make you operate in 2016. The solution to the state's purchase of properties and direct control of them and some infrastructure is a good solution also for the company, because this does not mean that it weakens the further operation. The purchase will, of course, be on business terms. A lot can be said about Svalbard, Svalbard's future and the company's role there. In essence, the Committee has not given any further consideration, since the proposal does not really deal with it. You start thinking about Svalbard first – most people will think a lot about it, and most people will think a lot about Svalbard – there are a lot of elements that can be drawn into it. But coal mining on Svalbard has been important, and it will probably also be important in the future. Looking at the energy production at Svalbard, Minuve 7 has an important role to play in delivering coal to the coal power plant up there. What is important in the future is that Svalbard gets more legs to stand on, completely independent of how the company develops, and that conditions are set in such a way. Finally, the Svalbard community is complex, both in terms of the many industrial interests and the population, but mining remains important for maintaining Norwegian activity in Svalbard, and operations contribute to full-time jobs and a viable society in Longyearbyen. Finally, I would just like to point out that the government has announced that it will be reporting the swallow bar in the near future. This will allow you to discuss all the issues and challenges, but not least all the opportunities that lie in the swallowing community.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2647	The Workers' Party regards the north as our main strategic field of foreign policy. Centrally located in the north is Svalbard, a sovereign Norwegian territory. Norway is the only country with an expanded infrastructure of 78 degrees north, and it gives us a strategic advantage in the Arctic. There is the activity of the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkompani mining company through the entire-time subsidiary Stor Norske Spitsbergen Grubekompani AS. About 95 pst. the production is exported today and the country has until now owned 99,4 pst. by the company. The objective of ownership is to contribute to the maintenance and further development of society in Longyearbyen in a way that supports the overall objectives of Norwegian swallowing policy. In the ownership message we dealt with in winter, Stortinget stated that the company should be operated on a commercial basis. The significant reductions in the coal price in recent years, combined with large, unrealistic losses in foreign exchange insurance contracts – as the case-rapporteur said – have put Great Norske in a very demanding situation. At the same time, the market outlook for coal is poor. The situation of the company requires political action, and we in the Workers' Party are positive to the proposals made by the government, which is the purchase of land and infrastructure of 295 million. kr and a liable loan of 205 million. kr that can be used for operation – it is essential. We will give the company the opportunity to continue the activity. We also support the government redeeming other shareholders in the company, as it can give the state that owns more flexibility in dealing with the further development of the company. But we also record that the government is clear that this does not provide any guarantees beyond 2016, which means that the rate of conversion must be up for the swallowing society. Here it is important to find economic solutions that contribute to profitability in the long term. The challenge of the company contributing, on the one hand, to supporting the overall objectives of Norwegian svalbard policy and mining has for many years contributed significantly to stable, full-year Norwegian activity and settlement at Svalbard. On the other hand, the company must operate on a commercial basis with a view to providing a competitive return. It is positive that in recent years, the swallowing society has had more legs to stand on. Both research and travel are today important jobs for the swallowing community. We record that many employees commute to the mainland, but that Great Norske still has a significant impact on the swallowing society. We're recording that the government is reporting that they're going to make a down-to-earth announcement about Svalbard. It is most likely to come in spring 2016, and the government reports that the Communication will include measures for conversion. This could provide a predictable situation for the company in the coming year, but also for the whole society at Svalbard. The working party sees it as important that conversion work in Longyearbyen can be started while coal is still under way at Svalbard, and that Great Norwegian must have a central role in this work. This is also something we have stressed in our nutrition strategy for Svalbard, which we have come with this spring. There we promoted proposals for new initiatives to ensure continued activity and economic development on Svalbard, while further developing our Arctic competence. I hope it can also provide useful input to the government in the work on this big message. I have also noticed that the Council of State is going to Svalbard quite soon, and that is very good. The conversion of Svalbard’s business should start now, with Great Norwegian as an important player. I also hope that, after the swallowing visit, the Council of State can be clear that action should be taken in relation to that conversion, and support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2666	The Green Party today voted in favour of the extraordinary allocation of 450 million. kr to Great Norwegian. We have long and clearly argued that Norwegian coal production at Svalbard must be discontinued, and we have pointed out that this must be done in a planned way. The Great Norwegian situation has now come into being, is a solid confirmation of our point, namely that it has neither been responsible nor forward-looking to doubt a policy that rejects all questions about the future of coal production and that has refused to address the obvious factors that speak of coal production not having a future in its own right. To continue just as if nothing has happened, until the bankruptcy suddenly stands at the door, has been sleepy business policy, inconsistent climate policy and poor swallowing policy. Of course, it would be completely irresponsible for employees and the swallowing community to let Great Norwegian go bankrupt almost overnight. The employees, the company, the svalbard community and Norway need some time to plan the Norwegian Svalbard after the coal operation. And it makes sense to ensure that the company's values and areas are not spread to all winners, as part of a bankruptcy dwelling. But it must now be absolutely clear – even for all parties and politicians who have so far pretended that coal drift can and must continue into eternity – that it is now urgent to have a planned and implemented transformation. Norwegian coal operations at Svalbard do not have future characteristics. The climate problem, which we all agree on is one of our most serious challenges, is due above all to the use of coal. As is known, and for safety reasons, this is the core argument in Norway’s active marketing of gas to the EU: Norwegian gas is designed to save Europe and the climate from coal. Thus, Norwegian climate policy became less inconsistent when a unanimous increase last week concluded that it is unethical to invest State pension funds abroad in coal mines and coal power production, because coal contributes to climate change. Thus, the claim that coal production on Svalbard is immaterial – or as some have expressed it: a completely different matter – became even more unreasonable than before. But no matter how low demands you make on your own logic, international coal prices are too low to provide profitability for Great Norwegian, and very little speaks for the fact that prices will rise. In China, which accounts for half the world's coal consumption, consumption is now falling rapidly and sharply. At the same time, the United States is cleaning up cheap coal on the world market, because they themselves are shutting down coal-fired power plants. Norwegian coal operations on Svalbard can, should and must be closed. The Greens are pleased that a majority at Stortinget recently supported our proposal that the government in the forthcoming Svalbard big-time announcement should present a plan for the transition to a sustainable svalbard society. Therefore, it is now necessary to make a perfectly clear assumption of the extraordinary allocation to Great Norwegian. Large Norwegian, svalbard, Food and Fisheries and other svalbard departments need to use the next six months to plan and implement a shift from coal mining to sustainable Svalbard establishments. It must be a clear premise that Norway is not going back to the time when coal mining at Svalbard was a permanently state-funded deficit enterprise. And it must be made quite clear that the government does not continue subsidizing in the 100 million-dollar coal production at Svalbard. The transition to a sustainable society is not a threat. There is a great opportunity, both for Norway as a whole and for Svalbard, to engage and mobilise for joint action, open up new ideas and stimulate new initiatives. The Greens trust that the government will use this extraordinary allocation both as an economic and as a mental starting capital for the green shift on Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2681	First, thank you to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Left supports the current position, which means that the state acquires a direct ownership of property and infrastructure on Svalbard – properties currently owned by the Great Norske Spitsbergen Kulkkompani. Norway’s policy in the Arctic is based on sustainability and low voltage. The spearhead of Norway's Arctic policy has been our activity in Svalbard and Longyearbyen, based on research and education, space activities, travel and coal operations. The first three areas are growing, while the coal industry, as this case shows, is on the way out as the most important support for a versatile settlement, with the challenges it poses. This will in a short time have consequences for the Longyearbyen community, far beyond the coal industry isolated as a business. Now we give ourselves some extra time on this transition, which in the Left's view makes sense. But it's a shift, not a signal that coal is the future of Svalbard. Climate change also gives us new opportunities for Svalbard, while the coal industry issue presents special challenges, as it is just a lower international coal price that now gives us a very special challenge on Svalbard. The most important thing now is to maintain the Longyearbyen community as a viable community, as a family society with a wide range of offerings over a long period of time. The challenges in Great Norwegian put Svalbard policy to the test. This is a national challenge and arises at the same time as the importance of Norwegian activity and presence on Svalbard may be more important than ever. The growing interest in the Arctic makes the importance of Norway’s position more important in a local, national and global perspective. I will deal with the matter, and join in what has been presented by the case rapporteur, and what has come from the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2698	I'll make it short. It was the post from the representative Rasmus Hansson that made me want to up and correct a little bit. Because it's clear that Svalbard's position is very strategic, and you shouldn't ignore the fact that Great Norwegian provides a significant part of the infrastructure needed for a society to live there. Travel life and research have been developed, but the role of Great Norwegian is still not to be discussed. I think the financial committee's attitude about the oil fund was a little unpresidual. It says that it will be out of ‘mining companies and power producers that have a significant part of their activity related to coal used for energy purposes’ – i.e. deliveries to energy. Large Norwegians want to transform their production and target markets with better conditions, including metallurgical industry. That need is likely to go on living. So we have to take with us the shades that were in the finance committee. The representative Rasmus Hansson also said that this was a government-funded deficit enterprise. In fact, big Norwegians have contributed quite significant profits and also dividends to the state. They have been in a difficult situation now, for various reasons, which is well explained, but we should acknowledge that it is a company that has been operating on healthy criteria for quite many years. It was just to soften up a little bit of the message that the representative Hansson had.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2709	I am very pleased that a Joint Nutrition Committee is behind the proposals for decisions in Prop. 118 S on Changes in the State Budget 2015 under the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries – Great Norske Spitsbergen Kulkkompani AS – Lands and Mining. Let me also take the opportunity to thank the Committee for a quick examination of the matter. The background to the proposition is, as many people have had, the demanding situation in the wholly owned subsidiary of Great Norske, the mining company SNSG. As a result of a sharp decrease in the coal price in recent years and a large unrealised loss on foreign exchange insurance contracts, SNSG cannot be operated without the provision of liquidity. On this basis, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries received, as a major owner in Great Norske, a proposal for a plan of measures from the Management Board on 16 January this year. After careful consideration, the government has now promoted this proposition. The proposal proposes that the State purchase land and infrastructure owned by Stor Norske for 295 million. kr. It is also proposed that a subordinated loan be granted, i.e.: a low-priority loan of 205 million. kr to Great Norwegian. Agreements have been concluded with the group and SNSG's banking relationship DNB on the conditions for the injection of capital, subject to the consent of the Storting. The solution proposed in the proposal implies that the State acquires direct ownership of strategic land and infrastructure on Svalbard, which is currently owned by the Great Norske Group. At the same time, provision is made for further limited coal activities in 2015 and 2016, with the possibility of operation after 2016 if, among others. coal prices are developing positively. The limit of this solution is 500 million. kr. It is higher than the Governing Board requested in its action plan. This is due, inter alia, to: market conditions have deteriorated since the Ministry received the enquiry in January. At the same time, the proposal does not propose to provide the company with the means to develop new business areas, as requested by the board. A concrete business plan should be in place before a decision can be made. Furthermore, the role of SNSK in further business development at Svalbard should be assessed. As indicated by the proposition, the ministry will follow market developments and, of course, the situation in the company closely, and we will appropriately return to the Stortingen on the further development of the group. In addition to the purchase of properties and loans, the proposal suggests that the State redeems all the other shareholders of Great Norwegian in line with share law principles. These shareholders hold a total of 0,06 pst. of the company's shares. Several of them have a long history with the company. However, redemption is appropriate now, as it will provide the State that owns more flexibility in the management of the further development of the Great Norske Group. In assessing this case, I have been concerned that the solution proposed should not weaken the group's basis for further operation. It is therefore envisaged that the group will be given the opportunity to lease back land and infrastructure purchased by the State on commercial terms. Property and infrastructure that may not be leased back may be managed by Great Norske on behalf of the State. There are different considerations relating to the state's ownership in Great Norwegian. The big message of ownership, A diverse and value-creating ownership, shows, among other things: the State’s objective of ownership of the company is to contribute to the maintenance and further development of society in Longyearbyen in a way that supports the overall objectives of Norwegian swallowing policy and that the company operates on a commercial basis. Mining has for many years contributed significantly to stable, full-time Norwegian activity and settlement on Svalbard. At the same time, the company must be run commercially. Aid for coal activities on a non-commercial basis may be unfortunate for a number of reasons, including climate policy. These are considerations that have been emphasised in the proposed solution. It is not to be overlooked that the prospects for coal activities at Svalbard are uncertain. The government will, among other things, therefore come back to Stortinget with its own notification of Svalbard, where the situation of the swallowing society is seen in the light of also the negative development of the mining company.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2735	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2738	I would say that there is an important grip the government has done in this matter. It's difficult to know how this ends, because you don't know what coal prices you're going to get in the future. So that's an exciting situation. We're very concerned that we have to look at migration in the swallowing society, and we're busy knowing how the council thinks about it. Do you have to work independently of the deposit message? Or is it in the big message that any political steps should be taken to facilitate it? And is it that Great Norwegian will be an active actor in the kind of changes you're going to have in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2745	I agree that it is important to start the transformation of the swallowing society. Right now we have been concerned about this matter and about resolving this situation and concluding the necessary agreements in this regard. There is still some work to be done. I'm going to Svalbard in 14 days. Then I'm going to meet the community, business and Great Norwegian to just discuss the way forward. We're not now waiting for a swallowbard message. We're going to work in parallel, because we need to look on the way forward. We're going to be at Svalbard – we're going to have housing, we're going to have business activity. We're going to have to make that right for now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2755	When the action plan arrived, the Senterpartiet was in favour of it and encouraged the government to look at it with mild and positive eyes. Should one have done as the previous opposition would have done, one would have said that it was too small and it was too late. I want to say in this case that I think it was appropriate, and I understand that it took some time to assess. So to the extent that you are allowed to do so, I would like to pay tribute to the government for handling the matter. Then I will challenge the Council of State a little: it is a few weeks since this case was sent to Stortinget. Have any new, updated assessments of the Svalbard situation come forward, perhaps especially after 2016, since the proposition was presented? And how does the government work to keep up with developments in the company and Svalbard?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2762	I thank you for the support and the rose. We'll take that with us. We are in close dialogue with the company, and it is primarily now about landing all the agreements we are going to land, with banks and with companies related to property management and management. So we follow the situation. The price of coal has not improved – on the contrary. We see that there are currently no brighter prospects. Then I'm also busy engaging in dialogue with the Longyearbyen community, with businessmen and local authorities to see how we're going to move on. We must do this while we are in dialogue with the company. We have not made any decisions, among other things. the application submitted by the company for conversion. We have to go into it a lot more closely, and we need more information. But both the company and we have now had our hands full with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2771	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 8 and 9 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2800	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2807	Thanks to the Committee for a good and thorough examination of the proposal that takes account of changes in the copyright law, where we are now introducing a general contract licence and implementing the EU Heat and Powers Directive. At the same time, we're treating Innst. 341 S to Prop. 126 S, in which we are to approve the consent of the EEA Committee for inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the Directive on certain authorised uses of heat and power plants. The purpose of the latter is to create a common European system for the clearance of so-called ‘hitting plants’ where the copyright holder is unknown or cannot be located. With this directive, we will promote the dissemination of, and thus strengthen, the European cultural heritage. Following the consent of Stortinget, the Committee considers that the clearing of heat plants will be easier for Norwegian cultural heritage institutions as well. As regards the Inst. 328 L to Prop. 69 L, I would like to point out the most important thing in the introduction of a general contract license and the implementation of the Heat and Power Directive in Norwegian law. The Heat Works Directive will be implemented through new rules in the copyright law, and thus we will have a common European clearing system and mutual recognition of heat plants status in all EEA countries. The Committee agrees that such a common approach is needed both for the definition and for the clearing of heat plants. With regard to the general contract licence, the Committee considers that such a system will allow for the clarification of rights in a simple way where individual clearance is impractical or impossible. It is also the Committee's view that such a licence should not be a restriction of copyright but a form of rights management. In the case of both the contract licence and dispute resolution rules, fragmented legislation is currently difficult to obtain. The parties to the government and the Christian People's Party have, in a joint remark on the matter, wanted to make it clear that the purpose of the law is not to restrict access to agreements directly with the rightholder. It is desirable to ensure that the applicable principles for the relationship between individual clearing and clearing under the contract licence are not changed. This also means that the general contract licence shall not cover areas where individual clearance may take place. I would once again like to thank the Committee for a good work, and hope that with today's changes this complex area will appear somewhat less fragmented and inaccessible, so that copyright individuals get what they deserve, while at the same time being able to be sure that Norwegian manufacturing environments continue to produce good Norwegian content, and that distributors and television channels can serve good content in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2820	The special Nordic licensing system has existed for many years and must be able to be said to have been successful and well-functioning. However, existing legislation in this area is fragmented and difficult to obtain. For television distribution, the contract licence rules are today limited to simultaneous and unchanged retransmission. In Denmark, a non-linear service license was granted in 2008, such as: time shifted TV usage, start from the front, week archive, etc. These services have been used by television distributors for several years without a legal framework in place to clear up such rights. This has led to a deterioration in the position of rightholders. A general contract licence will simplify the clearance of rights by also giving effect to a contract concluded with a representative rightholder organisation for rightholders who are not represented by the organisation. The Committee points out that the contract licence is to be considered, in principle, not as a restriction of copyright, but as a form of rights management. With regard to dispute resolution and reflections on the EU Heat and Gas Directive, I refer you to the statements made by the rapporteur and I agree with that. So far, the committee is unanimous, and that is joyous. So I want to present some challenges to the majority, which have an additional comment, which we would like to clarify the significance of. First, the majority writes the following: « the applicable principles for the individual clearance and clearance relationship under the contract licence shall not be changed.» [[...]] What does this mean? It may be harmless, but not if it draws towards not extending the areas of collective management under the new licensing rules. That could overturn the whole balance of the matter. We have heard of examples of distributors offering new additional services without clarifying the rights of such use directly with the artists, perhaps precisely because the law on the general contract license has allowed itself to wait. Furthermore, the majority writes: ‘The majority will emphasise, as stated in the proposal, that the contract licence shall not cover areas where individual clearance can be made. For example, it may apply to areas where there is today a clearing by individual agreements with rightholders or their organisations.’;» This may indicate that the majority does not believe that extended jurisdiction should also mean extended rights to collective management. The question is then: where does it facilitate individual clearance, and how does it work today? We are told that the author/woman is pressed for individual clearance of all rights or agreements claimed by broadcasters and distributors also include new and unknown forms of exploitation, even if the author does not want this. Is that just right for direct clearance? Furthermore, it would be to water out the new scheme if rights were to be able to be cleared back into the value chain in retrospect. If e.g. Norwaco contacts a distributor about the lack of rights clearance, Norwaco has to negotiate with the distributor, not by going back and clearing in retrospect. I would like to challenge the Council of State to confirm in its statement that that is how it should be understood. We've seen through a judge against Norwaco that the concept of broadcasting is being eaten up because broadcasters and distributors without asking the author or Norwaco in advance define broadcasting as broadcasting. As a result, the author is deprived of the right to receive the money for forwarding. In other words, we may risk that the majority's additional comment will lead to a minimum change, even though the Storting is now adopting an extended legal base. A clarification of these questions, I think, is necessary to clarify that there is actually a change in line with the intentions of the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2854	I am pleased that a broad majority of the committee supports the government's proposals for changes to the copyright law. The proposal will facilitate the easier use of copyright and other copyrighted material. The legislative proposal has two main elements. The first concerns the scheme described as a contract licence. The general rule is that the use of copyright must be cleared by the individual rightholder. For areas where such clearance is impractical or impossible, we have established legal rules in Norway and the Nordic countries that allow for clearer use – i.e. an agreement – with an organisation representing a substantial part of the rightholders in the field and approved by the Ministry of Culture. This system is called the contract license and has worked well for many years, for example. for the Copier system and for the retransmission of cable broadcasting programmes. Today, the contract licence can only be used in certain areas. The proposal implies an extension of the scheme, so that it applies in general. This is done by the introduction of a general agreement licence provision. If so agreed by the rightholder organisation and the user, they may enter into such an agreement for new uses. However, the assumption is that it is impractical or impossible to clarify the right otherwise than through the use of the contract licence. Similar rules have been introduced in the past both in Denmark and Sweden. This could be good for all actors in this area: users will have legal certainty that all rights have been cleared, the rightholders will receive remuneration for new uses of copyright, and consumers will be able to gain more access to copyright in new services. Certain amendments to the dispute settlement rules for the licence are also proposed. The voting system in the field of broadcasting, the cable dispute subject, is proposed to be repealed, inter alia: in the light of the EU Directive on satellite and cable transmission. In the field of education, it is proposed that disputes relating to agreements relating to the use of copyright in education may be settled by a denominator. This could prevent the copying of copyrights for use in education from being stopped in conflict situations. The second main part of the proposal concerns the implementation of the Heat and Power Directive in Norwegian law. The Directive will address the problems of clearing the digital use of works in libraries where the author or other rightholders of the work are not found. Here I show that in Prop. 126 S for 2014-2015 and the corresponding Innst. 321 S for 2014-2015 has been proposed that the Storting consent to the inclusion of the Heat and Power Directive in the EEA Agreement. The objective of the Heat and Powers Directive is to promote the use of heat and power plants as part of the dissemination and strengthening of European cultural heritage, while safeguarding the interests of rightholders. Cultural heritage institutions across Europe are digitising their collections to create digital libraries. Without a common method of clearing heat plants, this important work will have holes and gaps. Having large libraries available for electronic searches provides better conditions both for researchers and for us common users of cultural heritage. The directive therefore introduces a common European clearing system. The scheme is based on a comprehensive search for rightholders and the subsequent mutual recognition of the inventive step of a work in all EEA countries. The information on the search shall be provided in a pan-European database on heat and power plants, where the National Library is the contact point of Norway. If a rightholder of another foundry was to notify himself at a later date, the work would no longer be a foundry and its use would have to cease. It is proposed that the new identification code should serve as an alternative to the clearing of heat plants under the contract licence, which can be used today to clear up the use of heat plants in the libraries in Norway. The legislative proposal also contains some minor proposals. Among other things, it is proposed to repeal the rules on the expert advice on copyright. The Council has not been in office for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2877	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2880	I have experienced that there was a great deal of connection from the artist team to the long-awaited message from the Council of State. Similarly, I have recorded a certain concern about the additional comment of the majority, and I will therefore use the replacement of a line to challenge the Council of State's view on whether or not the majority writes here can participate in evading the intention of the Government's communication. For example, the majority write. ‘The applicable principles for the relationship between individual clearing and clearing under the contract licence shall not be changed’. Can the Council of State confirm that it is not understood that it is drawing towards the failure to extend the areas of collective management under the new licensing rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2889	I guess it's all right if someone representing the majority can express what they've really meant. But I believe that that comment refers to what is actually stated in the proposition, and it is also natural to understand that as a clarification of what is stated there. At least I don't understand that the comment is in any contrast to what the proposition is expressing. And I can assure you that the amendment of the law does not in any way weaken the negotiating position of rightholders, either in relation to broadcasters or other users of copyright.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2894	A follow-up question: does the Council of State consider that the new extended home should also mean extended rights to collective management?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2899	In fact, in order to be able to conclude the contract licence, it must be impractical or impossible not to use the contract licenses when one has the opportunity to do so. I think it's important to clarify it. If there are artists who, through their organisation, want to negotiate with others, there is freedom of contract in Norway. It is not actually covered by the contract licence. It's very important to emphasize.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2904	I believe what the Council of State states is understood correctly, but the majority's comment states that the agreement licence should not cover areas where individual clearance can take place, but the Council of State indicates that it is where it is impossible or impractical. It's just here that there are definition questions, and where artists are afraid that in particular distributors use market power and the economy as a breakpoint to weaken the rights. There is a need for the State Council responsible for the notification to state that the majority of the comments it makes should not be in and out of that which is the good intentions of the notification by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2910	In the proposition, it is very clear that the proposal is not intended to change the relationship between the individual clearance and the clearance of the contract licence. The starting point is that the use of copyright works shall be cleared in direct agreement with the rightholders or their organisations. The contract licence may only be used if such clearance is impractical or impossible. It's said very clearly in the proposition, and I'm assuming that it's also in this comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2915	I agree with the Council of State and I welcome that clarification. One final clarification that we need before Stortinget takes this decision is that the Council of State has to confirm that with the new scheme the rights cannot be cleared back in the value chain, but if, for example, Norwaco is in contact with the distributor that this is where the rights that have not been cleared are subject to negotiation with the Norwaco distributor. Is that correctly understood, seen from the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2922	Yes – I repeat that it is possible to use the contract license. It may be used where such clearance is impractical or impossible. It is fully possible for the individual to negotiate through his or her agreement. After all, many of these actors operate on the basis of several of the different rightholders. It's possible. But when you're going to use the contract license, it's made very clear what the basis for it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2927	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2943	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2950	I want to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation. In general, the change in the law is about the ability of landowners to determine the spelling of their usernames. We have had consultations on the change and, like in the hearings of the Department, the Committee notes that there is strong opposition from name-finding bodies. The hearing bodies that argue for the amendment of the law believe that the landowner has had too little real impact on issues relating to usernames, although the law today says that the view of the landowner should be taken into account. The hearing bodies that argue against the amendment of the law believe that the usernames are joint ownership and common cultural heritage, not property of a single landowner. In many cases, usernames will lose cultural memory when the owner of the land has to be able to determine its spelling. The founder will be able to choose a writing mode which will support his private surname. The Committee stresses that the use of the term is an important cultural heritage and part of the intangible cultural heritage in Norway. The Committee also stresses that this concerns the use name and not the place name. The Committee shares the view on who shall determine the way in which the use of the name is to be made public. The Labour Party is going to vote against the amendment of the law today on the basis that we want this to be a public task more than the individual's right. Nevertheless, there is reason to point out that the Workers' Party considers that the view of the landowner should be given special emphasis and that the views of the municipalities are taken into account when decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2972	The name is not dubious. It's elementary literacy that we all learned as a child. Our name means a lot to us. It's about belonging, about inheritance, and about something as simple and practical as we all know who we're talking about when we say their name. So it is with the names of places and farms. Fortunately, here we have a good legal protection in our country. The purpose of the Local Name Act is to ‘retain city names as cultural memories, provide them with a form of writing that is practical and appropriate, and contribute to the knowledge and active use of the names’. The public is responsible in this area. The municipality adopts the method of writing the official address and name of the localities, branches, municipal streets, roads, squares, neighbourhoods, etc. The counties determine how the name of county installations is to be written. The spelling of other local names is adopted by the Staten Kartverk. Sometimes, however, disagreements arise, including writing. Two decades ago, Østre Toten travelled the municipality by name about the spelling of a number of local city names. For example, «Hoel» would be written without «e» in one place and «Who» would become «Kvem» in another. For neighbors, for other people in the East Toten and for the State's maps, these things don't mean that much. But it does for those who have got their last name from the farm they live on. Hoel with ‘e’ will not live on Hol without ‘e’, or vice versa. Therefore, he and the 100 other landowners of the East Toten, or some 900 other landowners on a national basis with undecided namesake, should also determine how the name should be written. The Ministry has now taken the necessary steps and amended the law so that landowners can determine the way in which the name is written if this way of writing can be demonstrated to have been in public use in the past. This change is good for several reasons. Firstly, the change is anti-conflict. It delegates responsibilities downwards and does not allow senior agencies to oversee the wishes of the users. This should also be seen as a strengthening of the fundamental rights of ownership. We welcome that in the Right. Secondly, this leads to a strengthening of cultural memory management, which is the very basic intention of the place name law. Cultural memories are best managed through active and continuous use, and this is achieved most effectively by transferring the decision to the person who is actually responsible for cultural memory, namely the owner of the land. Finally, I would also like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the law in this respect underlines the importance of identity and belonging. The law will, after the change, more than before preserve the invisible bond that unites man with his home.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e2991	I will not keep any long posts in this matter. That this is a matter that creates involvement in some environments, there is no doubt about it. Locally, changes in names or new names on roads, ferries and others create an incredible commitment. It is said that in Norway, there is actually a work called ‘Norwegian Gaardnamene’ — at about a point in time. Twenty volumes. Here we find pronunciations, writing forms and interpretations. It's a work that other countries envy us. We choose, together with the Working Party, not to support the proposition. The main argument for the Christian People's Party is that we believe usernames are cultural memories and historical monuments, which belong to the place and community. Family names are private property and must be written as the owner uses them. Incidents, on the other hand, are our joint ownership and must be protected from distortions. A landowner may not have the right to use more than other protected cultural memories. The protection must apply to inherited old names, irrespective of whether the name is a farm name, username or other place name. In the same way as with physical cultural memories, the use names must also be protected against destruction. Protected buildings and objects have legal protection, which must also be of use. Then the spelling must be such that the inherited local pronunciation is used. The purpose of the City Name Act is to preserve the name as a cultural memory. The way you do it, of course, is to use the username, so that you don't forget the name. The public use of usernames requires names to be written down and the law lays down rules on how to write the names. The main principle of the current law is that the spelling of the name should be based on the inherited local pronunciation, and then a written name with a form in Norwegian spelling – a new Norwegian or a book destination – that is closer to the local pronunciation. It is also possible to deviate from this spelling and to choose regional forms that are not available in bookbooks or new Norwegian. Examples of such forms are ‘laundry’ or ‘service’ instead of ‘thear’ or ‘tear’. We believe that the proper use of the name is best regarded as a collective property to be secured by the fact that an expert takes responsibility for the standardisation of the name in consultation with those who have the right to comment on it. A standardisation body must have knowledge and understanding of how to maintain and maintain a username over time. It is on this basis that the Christian People's Party opposes the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3006	The representative Bekkewold was in the work «Norwegian Garden Names» in 19 volumes. I can tell you that the work is missing from the library. I hope that is not the case with the representative Bekkevold. But at least it's like files and it's very interesting for someone who really wants to go into it. For the Centre Party, cultural protection and cultural memory protection are important, both nationally and locally, and often these two dimensions are closely linked. The traditional farm and farm names are among the oldest local names and are recognised as intangible and protective cultural memories. Old geographical names are part of our common cultural heritage and provide direct and uninterrupted links to history, in line with buildings and objects. By continuing to be in use, inherited geographical names are a living legacy from past times. The purpose of the law is to preserve geographical names as cultural memories, as well as to provide them with a method of writing that is practical and appropriate. The state's mapping works have a central function in the administration of the law through the role of decision-making authority for the writing of the names of all mountains, hills, water, rivers, etc. Following the 2005 revision of the law, the cart has been reviewed and taken decisions in many thousands of cases, in line with the law’s requirement that the writing should follow the applicable spelling principles. Many farm names are up to 2,000 years old, and writing has tended to change over time. Many farm names that today serve as family names are written according to the spelling rules of the 1700s and 1800s. And that's where we come to the core of the battle. Many landowners have been surprised in these years when the official method of writing the farm name has been changed without the owners being aware of it. I have been in conversations and meeting both with those who the representative Harberg mentioned, and with the target layer on Toten, so both have been heard. Names for most of us are closely related to our own identity. Sense if this matter is not about the right to determine neither the family name nor the spelling of these, it relates feelings and identity to the way in which the name and the farm name are written. As the law in force has been practised, in several cases, genealogies and farm names have been separated by a new form of writing of the farm name. Many landowners feel that this is an infringement of the identity of their property. Another factor is that in the historical period farms have often been divided into several farms and uses. Therefore, there are often several uses on each farm which are wholly or partly identical to the farm name. Not rarely do the landowners disagree with each other about the type of writing, so that different modes of writing have developed for the original name of the farm of the sub-users. For the centre party, it is important that the bill states that the owner of the law must be able to prove that the method of writing a wish has actually been used as a username. Senses of the current spelling were introduced at a time later than its origin, however, it is of relatively older date and according to date’s writing norm. In such a perspective, there is a historical value in continuing to allow the way of writing from the time when a place name began to be established in written form. These have been incorporated over a few hundred years and are now part of local history. The non-prescriptive nature of a person does not mean that the meaning and meaning of the name are lost. The Central Party understands and respects that there are shared opinions on this bill, but believes that the changes in the law balance the interests of the community and cultural memory and the influence of the landowner on the writing of his own property. The centre party will vote in favour of the proposal on this basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3025	We have two names in Norway. We have a law on personal names that is liberal and gives us the opportunity to call ourselves close to saying what we want. An example of this is the radio host Espen Thoresen Hværsaagod-Takkskalduha. And we have the City Name Act, where farm and utility names are regulated by public authorities and cultural memory and language management is central. The City Name Act has a long history. The first scepter of public norms is found in the 1838 food review, and since then public authorities have been responsible for standardising farm and utility names. Change in the name of the place, in the understanding of the town, municipality centre or municipality, is a little bit the topic of the law change we are dealing with here today. The case concerns the use name, which has been used by Tingelstad Wøien and others, or even more precisely – it concerns the spelling of the farm and land. Especially after we got a road name and a local road and address number, the way of writing for some uses and farms has created a debate. This is when we come to see these two laws – the personal name law and the place name law – in the context. I heard the representative of the Christian People's Party mention the writings of "tear". I've grown up on the Tjern and my name is Kjeseth. "Know" is what we say on the mouth of the people where I'm from. We haven't really reflected on it in particular, and I don't think any of us have any plans to change their personal name or go in and change the farm name. With regard to the amendment of the law here today, the Left supports it. We believe that what we're doing here today is not giving the landowner the right to determine the spelling without going into it. We also change § 3 and not just § 6. It has to be documented that it is a form of writing that has been used. For the Left, which was formed in opposition to the official state, perhaps the most important thing we are doing today, is to give landowners the opportunity to appeal and to be in dialogue with the administrative bodies that are currently managing this – the State Maps and the Language Council. In a case that can be a little sensitive, which concerns both the personal name – which is often changed to a modern way of writing – and a farm name that has long cultural-historical traditions with it, we think it is an important change. In short, that is the background for the Left to support today's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3038	Place names are intangible cultural memories. A single geographical name is a peek hole into Norwegian history. A place name can be a little story about how we settled the country, or a glimpse into our ancestors' lifestyle, goals, and faith. The geographical names are also a most living part of our oldest linguistic heritage. They are verbally handed over from generation to generation and best kept in the speech target on the spot. The purpose of the Place Name Act is to protect the geographical names. The range of names shall be continued when they are put into public use. The information that local names can give us about language and culture will be shared by future generations. We're all familiar with hundreds of city names. They're part of our daily life and our local knowledge. We get to know them in growth. They connect us to places, to a branch, to a farm, to a genus. They connect to our last name. Many Nordics have surnames that were originally local names. The legislative proposal seeks to combine two different approaches to site names. It recognises both basic and social interests. Place names have cultural memory for the big community and are thus a common owner. At the same time, we believe that the sense of kinship and personal identity attached to a specific username is a legitimate reason which the law must uphold. The legislative proposal is therefore based on the right of landowners to determine the spelling of the names of their own property and their own farm. The mapping will continue to be a formal decision-making body in the cases. However, if the landowner can prove that the method of writing he wishes on his farm has been in public use as a utility name, the method of writing shall be capable of being adopted without further delay. After the proposal, it will not be necessary for the spelling to follow Norwegian spelling principles, as is the condition of today's law. I am pleased that the committee has noticed that the amendment concerns only the username, i.e. the name of the private property or the farm. The change does not apply to any extensive farm name or other geographical name. The proposal involves a liberalisation that benefits the owner of the land on his small cadastral parcel, but the owner-determined method of writing should not be influenced by the amount of local names for which the municipality, county municipality and state adopt the form of writing. In order to be concrete, if the name of the place of use is to be entered in a street address agreed by the municipality, public standardisation is to be used. We have followed up a position that a unanimous cultural committee gave in 2008. The store asked that the rules on the writing of the username be softened. The task was to change the law so that a username which is identical to a farm name may not be written as the farm name. If a landowner wants to write the username Vik with W, he will be allowed to do so on the basis of the proposal, even if the Cartwork adopts V for the farm name from which the username is derived. If the municipality will adopt the street name Viksvejen, it will be written with V, as we otherwise write the Norwegian word «vik». The way of writing conveys directly what the word means. Official standardisation is therefore still required when state and local authorities make their write-down decisions. Place names should still have a way of writing that does not help to hide the linguistic origin or what the name tells us about nature and human activity. Local name management, e.g. in map production, has an important additional practical dimension for cultural memory management. We need a secure location of locations and events. It's e.g. important in an emergency context. For these reasons, the Mapping Board should continue to be a formal decision-making body for the use names. The vast majority of local names to be used by the public on maps and signs already exist on the population mouth. However, local names often require a write-down decision when the name is to be used by the public. Therefore, the Place Name Act is a completely real tradition bearer on behalf of all of us. Many geographical names would have been lost if the law had not ensured a continuation. When the landowners have a greater impact on the continuation of the geographical names, we give them confidence and responsibility as traditional bearers. That is why our proposal is that they should also be able to ask for a name-based recommendation if they so wish. I hope and believe that the legislative amendment proposal leads to fewer conflicts between the decision-making body and the founders. It is good for justice and builds up unnecessary bureaucracy. At the same time, I hope that understanding of why the place names need management as inalienable cultural memories can be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3070	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3073	The changes we are dealing with today are in violation of common international practices in the field of cultural protection and management. Nominees in Norway have been explicitly informed through consultations that this change is against them. Eleven out of 89 hearing bodies were in favour, and 54 were against. I would also like to point out that name-finding agencies believe that usernames are common ownership and common cultural heritage, and not the property of a single landowner. My question to the Council of State will be: Will this change strengthen the cultural memory value or weaken it in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3081	I notice, of course, the contradictions that have emerged from some of the hearings, among others. from name-based environments. What we have proposed, however, is a limited liberalisation which reasonably benefits the landowner, and only the names of private property are covered by this change. For all other place names, the rules are the same as they used to be. We have made it clear why the official standardisation of geographical names is important and necessary, and I believe that this does not help to weaken that situation, but it is absolutely to strengthen it. I just remember that this was a unanimous decision, when it dealt with the document 8 proposal in its time, and also the former councillor Trond Giske said that he wanted to change this in line with what we have actually done today. The only thing that has changed since the last time is that the Workers' Party has actually changed its view on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3086	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There is reason to believe that the Minister of Culture is concerned with cultural protection, and in her main contribution she places emphasis on the use of geographical names. But I want to ask the Council of State what means she wants to use to maintain a high level of cultural memory protection, including in terms of usernames in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3091	I believe that the law is the way it is, and the way it will still be, will be the basis for us to participate in maintaining this in the years to come. So this only has to have an effect on private owners. It doesn't matter what's public, so we actually have the same tools that have been used before. They will also be able to be used in the coming years. We believe that old usernames are a common cultural heritage, but whoever lives on the farm has a stronger connection to this name than what we might have. The personal identification with the name and property must also be recognised, and it does not do the law of the day. That's why it's incredibly important to make this change. I mention again that it was actually a unanimous collapse that signaled that there was a need to change the law, in 2008 when you had this discussion the last time – but there are some of the parties that have changed their minds about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3096	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee, the President shall propose that matters be dealt with as follows: 11 and 12 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3124	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3133	The first speaker is Mr Mette Tønder, who is now acting as rapporteur on matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3136	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good work on this matter. There has been a case where there has been agreement within the committee, agreement that we should ratify, and agreement on how to implement the Convention in Norwegian law. Children may be associated with several countries. A child may be a national of one country, live in another, live in a third country, and different rules of law and lack of cross-border communication make it more difficult for these children to receive assistance if they, for example: be subjected to care failure or abducted by their parents. It is therefore important to provide these children with increased protection and legal certainty. 41 countries have so far acceded to the Convention, including the EU Member States. Therefore, it was now high time that Norway too took this step. The Convention is proposed to be implemented by incorporation. This means that the Convention is applicable as Norwegian law. A separate law on the implementation of the Convention is proposed. In addition, amendments to the Child Protection Act, the Marriage Act and the Children’s Act are proposed in order to adapt to the Convention. The Convention regulates child protection measures. It concerns parental responsibility, permanent residence, association, guardianship, place in foster homes and institutions and the management of the child's wealth. The Committee has chosen to make some comments on some of the amendments. In order to cooperate with other countries, provision has been made for the transfer of personal data. Some of the hearing bodies have commented on this. This is explained in the proposition. This refers to the provisions of the Convention requiring personal data to be processed confidentially and used only for the purpose to which the data relate. Furthermore, the information shall not be provided if it would endanger the child or its wealth or pose a threat to the child’s family. The essential importance of the Convention is best for the child, and this may justify the fact that also minor threats or other adverse consequences prevent the disclosure of information. The jurisdictional provisions are amended to the place of usual residence of the child. This means, for example: that parents cannot avoid a child protection measure by taking the child out of the country if the child is normally resident in Norway. Parents who do not agree when moving out of the country are given the opportunity to bring a case before the court. Children's right to be heard in matters of movement is strengthened. It was discussed whether the age limit for children’s right of participation was to be 12 years or 15 years, and the Committee considered that it was a right decision to give children participation from 12 years of age. A provision is introduced to allow voluntary foster home and institution placement in other Conventional countries for children living abroad but who have normal residence in Norway. The good follow-up of Norwegian authorities to such locations is limited and there is support for restrictive practices. The purpose of the Hague Convention is to provide greater protection for children in international situations and to enhance international cooperation. We adults are moving more across borders now than what we did just a few decades ago. This means that more children are also more international. It is important to have cooperation between countries so that these children do not become throwing balls between different systems that do not talk. The ratification of the Convention will provide Norway with a new instrument for the prevention and resolution of international parental, child protection and child abduction cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3157	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for a good cooperation within the Committee and a good, complete dossier. With regard to the ratification of the Convention, it is good that it should be put in place, and the President-in-Office has given a good start on it. I just want to say that the Convention is important and necessary, especially in relation to child Abduction. However, I would like to link some comments to the changes. It is important to know that this Convention does not concern the determination of danger and fun. So the introduction of the Convention does not have a direct impact on the transfer or regulation of parents, but it regulates the parental authority. The question at issue in this connection is surrogati. So this case does not apply to surrogati, but it is shown that foreign surrogati contracts and decisions are contractual relationships that do not necessarily refer to parenting and parenting. It is worth noting that the states that have acceded to the Convention are also not countries that offer commercial surrogati to foreign citizens. The law clarifies what is a common parental responsibility. This is important in order to clarify that both parents are required to consent to e.g.: shorter holiday trips. It also clarifies that consent should be obtained by extending the stay and by making changes if you have agreed to move – which is quite relevant with today’s removal pattern. Paragraph 40 of the Children’s Act states that parents cannot move children out of the country where there is disagreement, and the case is not ‘decided’ and enforceable. It is important in view of child abductions and ensuring the best for children. There have been a number of issues in the media in recent times where someone wants to leave the child’s place of residence or belonging excluded from child protection and care in Norway, for example. by complying with the laws of their own countries – cf. The criticism that has come from other countries. So it's not like that. § 1-2 of the Act on the Protection of Children provides for the right of child protection to intervene when children are not properly cared for and the child is in the kingdom. Nor does the law require that the child be resident in Norway — and this applies regardless of the duration of the stay — if there are questions of care assumption or urgent decision. The law also applies for short stays abroad, and it is important for us that the law applies equally to all children and to the best of the child. As the rapporteur pointed out, the amendment of the law also means that parents cannot avoid a child protection decision by taking the child out of the country, if their usual residence is Norway. This is necessary in order for the protection of children to be able to follow up and implement the measures they have taken. Many children live in other countries, but usually live in Norway. The change in § 1-2 allows the Child Welfare Service to examine concerns that come with these – something that is positive and good for children who are not doing well abroad, which we unfortunately know is too often happening. The change in Section 1-2 also implies that the county council will take decisions on care and behaviour at the institution, even if the child has left the country but is considered to have a normal residence in Norway. The fact that placement decisions can be made means that children can be assured even if they are living abroad and that they receive the necessary follow-up and protection that we believe is important. These are important measures that will provide the best for children. Then we can follow up the kids if they're in the country, or if they're abroad. It has been assessed whether a specific provision should be made in Chapter 8 of the Children’s Act concerning the municipality responsible for children living abroad who are normally resident in Norway. The Committee took note of this. It is important that it is done and that the municipalities know what their responsibility is. I hope that the Council of State will follow up on this as well. The amendments to the laws and accession to the Convention will help to improve the protection of children, and the Workers' Party supports these changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3185	I am pleased that today the Stortinge deals with the proposition with the proposal that Norway now finally joins the Hague Convention in 1996. The Convention will increase the protection of children linked to several countries and will strengthen cooperation with other countries in parental, child protection and, in particular, child abduction cases. More and more children are linked to more countries and it may be extra demanding to protect them. A child may be a national of one country, live in another country and reside in a third country. In recent years, both ministries and foreign stations have been increasingly active by foreign authorities, especially in the area of child protection, where they are asked to intervene or resolve individual cases. Without the right means, this can be difficult. The accession to this Convention means that international parental rights and child protection matters can be better prevented and resolved by Norwegian authorities, in good dialogue with foreign authorities. The Convention regulates private international law and cooperation with regard to parental authority and child protection measures. The Convention shall apply in matters of parental responsibility, permanent residence, association, employment, place of residence and institution and the management of the child's property. A key objective is to prevent child abortion. Norway is a member of the 1980 Hague Convention on Child Abduction. The 1996 and 1980 Conventions are intended to work together. The Hague Convention 1996 can help prevent child abduction cases and provide a stable care solution after a return. The Convention provides that the country in which the child is normally resident may take safeguard measures. However, the country in which the child resides may take temporary and urgent measures. A case may be transferred to another country when it is at the best of the child. The Convention also has rules on the choice of law and rules on the recognition and implementation of protective measures taken in other countries. The Convention further facilitates cooperation and exchange of information between countries. The Convention requires each country to establish a central authority to cooperate with the central authorities of other Convention countries, to provide guidance on the Convention and to provide information on laws and services. In order for Norway to accede to this Convention, it is necessary to make some legislative changes. Some amendments are also desirable in order to facilitate the proper adaptation of Norwegian law to the Convention and its objectives. The government therefore proposes in its proposal amendments to the Children’s Act to prevent child Abduction and to prevent children from being left abroad. When proposing amendments to the Children’s Act, it is also considered that it is a central objective of the The Hague Convention 1996 to facilitate the continued association and contact of parents and children, even if the child and the other parent move to another country. We propose, among other things: parents who do not agree are given the opportunity to bring their own action before the Court of Justice to move the child out of the country. It is also proposed that children over 12 years of age should consent to move abroad on their own. This is particularly important in preventing coercive or sexual mutilation. We know that this often happens through strong coercion from the parents, and without the child really knowing what's going on. Today, child protection can only take action when the child is living in Norway. It is also proposed to include in the Child Protection Act that measures can be taken when the child is normally resident in Norway. This is necessary in order for the Child Protection Act to comply with the Convention. It also means that decisions on care can be taken when a child is normally resident in Norway, even if the child is living abroad. The proposal may prevent parents from evading a child protection decision by travelling from Norway. The government also proposes to open up the possibility of voluntary foster home and institution placement in other Convention countries. It then requires that parents and children over 12 years of age consent to the accommodation and that the accommodation be sound and in the best interests of the child. It is high time that Norway took part in this international cooperation. 41 States are now members of the Hague Convention 1996, including the EU Member States. The government has prioritised its work on this proposition. I am pleased that the Stortinget today supports Norway's agreement to the 1996 Hague Convention, which will help to increase the protection of children associated with several countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3217	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 11 and 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3231	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3238	Let me first of all thank the members of the Committee for very good and constructive cooperation, the aim of which has been to make things better for children and families. Today there is a large vacuum, and steps in the stairs are missing as regards voluntary relief measures and where care for the children is ultimately lost. This is a matter of full and broad support from the Children's Ombudsman, the Children's Protection Management Organisations and a number of bodies that have expressed their views on the matter. All 78 of the 87 hearing bodies that have concluded have concluded positively and support this. Child protection can currently impose relief measures outside the home but not at home. I believe that many of us in the committee regularly get calls where parents have been a little skeptical and afraid and turned down relief measures, and where one has accidentally ended up with a situation where one simply loses the children and that they are taken out of the home. In the Committee's view, this is a matter which will improve the situation. More preventive, straightforward and preventive work is needed to prevent and prevent takeovers where the basis is present. This means that you will now work more with your families, more preventively, and in this case, the Committee believes that there is a step in the right direction, where the goal is to help your parents become better carers together, where possible. Before I go further, I would like to recommend the Committee's recommendation, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party, and I would like to address the loose proposal of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Then it's done. Every day, as a Party politician, I get a number of enquiries about child protection and many opinions. I think there are as many opinions as there are people, and I think everyone who sits on the committee, maybe has nearly as many requests, and is in a somewhat desperate situation. And when we see that the system is exposed to a lack of trust gradually, I think we can do something about it. We have to contribute. Yes, child protection is doing a lot right and very well, but it can also be done wrong. We have to make sure that there are several steps in the stairs, as this case adds up to, but I also think that we might have to make even more changes. I welcome such a debate. I have also received – like the committee, which received the same thing as late as yesterday, I know – an enquiry in the form of a letter from, among others. Norway's ME association, for example, on disease. It is said that if you have sick children who do not meet at school, you will lose the right to care. That's what we're going to take seriously, relationships around disease states, too. I hope the Council of State will also take it further: you should have respect for the fact that someone is ill, and it is not said that there is a care failure. We must constantly strive that if we can prevent and prevent takeovers by working with the parents and teaching them to become good caregivers, then it must be absolutely best for everyone in society, not least for the children and families, if there is no talk of violence, assault or gross care failure, because then the children will have to leave. I think this is a good day for Norwegian children and Norwegian parents, who should be able to get help, who should work together more easily, who should be able to live the good life, which should be able to keep the family together more easily – that's what society deserves. Earlier today, performance requirements in schools were debated in another committee. Yes, it places responsibility. Take it seriously, do something with it. Those who work in the system say that the system is about to break. Then we have to help. How can we now facilitate a more effective, better and safer child protection for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3255	The representative of Morten Stordalen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3258	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a good cooperation until today, in a matter of providing children with even better protection and help. Common to all of us is that we believe that the best interests of children should be best cared for. The imposition of relief measures at home differs from the voluntary assistance many have received in the past, and we believe that child protection should be provided. I understand that someone might feel that a little threatening. Child protection is often aimed at good, voluntary agreements and provides for assistance where necessary. Unfortunately, in some cases it may be absolutely necessary to have more force behind measures that do not reach agreement with their parents. Many hearing bodies have been aware that a requirement to accept relief measures is an important element in the overall context of good child protection. Everyone agrees that children are best off in their own family, if that is the case, but sometimes it is not possible. The working party will clarify once again that the imposition of relief measures must not prevent or delay the taking-over of care where it is right to do so. The best of children must go ahead of parental protection. It's the way sometimes help we put in, discover faster whether or not care needs to be taken over, and it's positive. That is why we support that amendment. The working party will also stress the importance of testing all voluntary measures before entering and imposing measures. The possibilities that exist today, such as: to be able to impose on kindergarten, should be used even more. It is good to use Kindergarten and SFO, but we share the concern that FUG expresses in terms of competence, especially with employees in the SFO. In particular within the SFO, employees may be required to meet parents who do not really want to use that offer and who must have the difficult daily meetings. Therefore, it is important to put the expertise in the cases where appropriate, so that the assistance measures are best placed to succeed. It is also necessary to evaluate the measures early and continuously. It's set six months, but it's important to evaluate continuously. We are pleased that the exhaustive list has now been changed to be able to impose other, similar compensatory measures, as proposed by the majority. Many of the hearing bodies were sceptical that there should be an exhaustive list, and some of the questions asked were about the measures listed, having good enough professional justification. The working party considers that there must be scope for the effectiveness of child protection with its high competence to assess the effectiveness of the necessary assistance measures to be put in place. Competence and good professional offer must be the most important thing. When it comes to being able to impose on the parent-child-centre – a requirement to use it – we have been concerned that this measure could also be used preventively and at an early stage, not only in the most difficult and most serious cases, but that it should be introduced before it becomes too acute. Therefore, the Workers' Party agrees to delete the fourth paragraph of § 4-4 and to make the Centres subject to the same conditions as other caring measures and control measures, and not to the strict rules of § 4-12. Several hearing bodies mention in their replies that it is an important arena to use. It is for the authorities to decide whether the assistance measures imposed should be implemented, that is good. However, I would like to point out a concern that there is already a waiting time for treatment today, and that even more tasks could increase the waiting time. I hope that the Council of State will follow closely, and if the waiting time increases further because of the measures we are now taking, we need to be strengthened. The proposal to amend § 4-4 also raises a question of the obligation of professional secrecy, on which the representative Stordalen was involved, and the exchange of information. We must ensure that the change does not prevent the exchange of important information. That is why it is good that we have a joint proposal that this should be looked at in greater detail. The intention is for the children to get more and better help, and we must not create difficulties so that they don't get it. To achieve the goal of better opportunities for children, we also need to ensure a good exchange of information.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3286	Think of a family with two children. The children come at an age where they become more demanding, and there are still reports of concern. Someone's seen Dad squeaky on a crying two-year-old. Kinderhagen reports poor and lack of food packages and poor interaction between mother and child. Child protection begins to take a closer look at the family, but as they do, the family closes. They meet, they talk to child protection, but are proud and refuse to accept any help. Perhaps child protection finds that the family is struggling a little for the time being. Mom has lost her job, Dad is trying to compensate as much as he can, and both are struggling to put the children first in this situation. Parents have little network around them. They are offered a visiting home and perhaps a course to tackle the parent role. They still say no – they can do this themselves. In the past, child protection could put the family on the obs list and follow developments, to the extent that they got it into a stressful everyday life. Maybe the little family would handle the fires all by themselves. But maybe the situation escalates, and it all ends up in an emergency decision with the placement of the children away from home. The whole child protection system is that we should apply the least invasive measures first. Nevertheless, the number of emergency decisions is increasing. We've all experienced tough situations in life. When you're in the middle of it, you're not most susceptible to help. But the role of child protection is not just to see parents; they have a duty to see the children, to hear their voice and to help them fulfill their rights. If children suffer from a parent’s crisis and parents do not cope with receiving help, it is actually the duty of child protection to help their children anyway. In this case, child protection is given this option. We will continue to try the least intervention first. Child protection shall continue to take time to build trust, to be out in kindergartens, to be familiar with parents, to build the good relationship before anything happens, so that parents dare to contact and receive help. However, when despite all this building of trust, children’s rights must be given priority, and child protection must be able to take measures to protect the child, even if parents say no. The diverse family is a good framework around most children's growth, but we must never let the family's four walls become so thick that we don't see children who need our help.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3301	Ideally, no children and families would need assistance from child protection, and ideally, there would never be a need for public intervention. But then we know that some families need extra support from society to function, and we have as a society and as governments the duty to stand up and intervene when we see that children need our help. Sometimes we see as human beings that we need help from others. Sometimes we mean ourselves that we don't need help. It is not so difficult to understand that it is challenging when others intervene in the family sphere and impose actions on you and your child that you do not see the need for them. But sometimes this is necessary. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that it is right to both relax on the conditions for imposing relief measures and to extend access to more types of measures than today. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Ministry's assessments of the need for an exhaustive list of compensatory measures. The imposition of relief measures is intrusive. We believe that the ministry in its proposal has found a good solution to this problem, which ensures the legal certainty, predictability and security of all parties. If it turns out that this list does not seem to meet the needs, it makes sense for the Storting to consider any changes to the list after a period of operation of the new law. The Christian People's Party will therefore vote against the proposal for a new section 4-4, third and fourth paragraphs, until the first sentence. We agree with the amendment of the law, but we do not agree with the amendment of the majority of the committee, which reads 'or other similar compensatory measures'. For the Christian People's Party, it is also important to stress that child protection is entirely dependent on trust in society and good cooperation with the families and children for whom they are. Several hearing bodies have pointed out that good cooperation may be difficult to achieve when actions are imposed. It is important that voluntary measures have been tried before imposing relief measures. It is important always to think together for the best of the child, to build good relations with the child and with the family, and to work to establish trust. It is important for the child and it is important that the child be listened to in advance of assessments of the imposition of measures, along the way in the process and afterwards. The imposition of measures implies that children must establish new relationships against the wishes of their parents. So we're at risk for the child to be subjected to a strong cross-breed and a very difficult conflict of loyalty. These are strong emotional decisions for the child, and it is so important that this is handled well by everyone standing around the child. Very early detection of care failure is crucial. The smallest children exposed to it are most likely to suffer large, often irreversible, injuries from care failure. At the same time, the child protection service shall not take more radical measures than is necessary and the threshold is and should be high in order to distinguish children from parents. However, for many children and families, an offer of compensatory assistance in the home is not an appropriate alternative. The category between compensatory measures and takeover of care includes care-changing measures such as parental guidance and stay in centres for parents and children. These can be good and necessary measures for many families. Staying at a parent/child centre may prevent the child from being seriously injured, either by undue separation from parents or by preventing observation and guidance from harming the child’s parents. In some cases, care takeover can be prevented, and in other cases, care takeover is recommended. In both cases, the stay at such a centre will have a very important function. The majority today decide that a stay in the centre of parents and children can be imposed when necessary to ensure the child's satisfactory care, and the Christian People's Party is very pleased that this decision now appears to be being made, and we believe that it can prevent damage to very many young children. Then it is that on an incurrence the Christian People's Party stands outside any remarks where we were to stand in the setting. This concerns the comments made by both the Labour Party and the majority of the Committee on page 7, as well as on page 8 – it is said at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3325	The central party supports the proposed legislative changes in the child protection laws that we believe can be involved in and prevent more interventional measures such as takeovers. The Government proposes to extend the right to impose relief measures to cover more types of relief measures than at present. In addition, a proposal to relax the conditions for imposing an aid measure is made. That's what we think makes sense. It is also good that the new amendment of the law and its effects should be evaluated when this system has worked for some time. The Centre Party also supports the configuration of the Committee, i.e. support for the Committee's proposals on the non-exhaustive list of compensatory measures. We focus on listening recordings about this from among others. Bufdir, FO, Barneombodet and Save Children. We therefore support the proposal for a new section 4-4, third paragraph. We also support the proposal for Section 4-4, fourth paragraph, that it is too strict to impose as a condition that the terms of Section 4-12 of the Children's Protection Act must be in place to impose a suspension in the centre of parents and children. I would then like to emphasise as important Article 12 of the Children's Convention that children who are able to form their own views shall have the right to express this in all the circumstances of the child, and that the participation of children must be ensured in all parts of such a process, both in advance of evaluating the assistance measures imposed in the course of their journey, and after the action has been taken. I also want to highlight a comment from the Workers' Party – which perhaps the Christian People's Party should have been on – where one highlights what the Parent's Choice of Initial Training said in their hearings, that they expressed concern about whether there is enough competence when it comes to the relief measures that are imposed, and that it is very important. Special attention will be paid to the competence of students in the school leisure system for the needs and follow-up of their children. It is a good proposal made by the Labour Party in its note that there should be an evaluation after six months both in kindergarten and in SFO to ensure that the imposed functions according to the intention, and I argued that it could also become an effective practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3336	I would like to thank you for my view of a very good and wise contribution to a very important debate. It's exciting to hear the debate. Unfortunately, SV does not have the opportunity to sit in the committee despite the fact that we are burning for the protection of children and the development of the best interests of children. SV has a long job in order to have the opportunity to impose relief measures. It's basically about the child's right to help. It is then clear that action is needed with the lowest possible level of intervention, at the lowest possible level, where volunteering is central and where children are listened to. There are important principles on which child protection should work and on which today’s child protection has as important pillars. But the starting point of child protection must be the opportunity and duty of the task it is to help children and to think the best of the child. Therefore, the SV also supports the Appendix on ‘or other similar compensatory measures’. It is because it is difficult to have an exhaustive list of questions about relief measures, and we very much want good and necessary assistance to be put into effect. We know that child guards are standing in pretty tough laps around the whole country. If there is someone who has to be quiet in the storm, it is those who are loyally working according to the child's best principle, and who can experience quite rough events only to have done their job, thinking exactly of the child's best. Therefore, we believe that their toolbox should be as full as possible and that professional assessments should not be restricted. We are proud of the Norwegian Child Protection Agency, which works every day on the basis of the child's best interests, and we therefore wish to welcome this change. We think it's a very positive step Stortinget should take today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3349	Child protection and child protection issues are complicated. Often we hear about episodes where we get in too early and about other episodes where we get too late. Therefore, it is as important to focus on prevention and early efforts to help children as early as possible in the family where possible. That is why I am very pleased that the Stortinge today is treating Prop. 72 L with proposals for amendments to the Children’s Act, to protect children and to provide child protection with more tools to help children much earlier. Proposition is a follow-up to NOU 2012: 5 Better protection of children’s development. It also follows from the Sundvolden Declaration that there is a need for greater access for the protection of children to provide the necessary assistance, even without consent, where this is necessary in order to prevent the taking-over of care. With this amendment, child protection services are given the opportunity to enter the home with earlier help even in cases where parents do not want help. It is consistent with the starting point of the Child Protection Act. The principle of law is that children should grow up with their biological parents and that assistance under the Child Protection Act should be provided primarily at home. Today, child protection services have few instruments if parents do not agree to relief measures and the situation is not so serious that there is a need for care. In recent years, several professional settings and former child-restraints have also expressed the fact that child-rescue assistance is often too late. The proposals adopted today will improve the legal certainty of children and help children to receive the necessary assistance and care in a timely manner in accordance with the Child Protection Act. The aim of the proposal is to improve the situation of the child and to prevent more interventional measures such as taking care of the child. I am very pleased that an overall committee and a total pool are concerned with preventing the need for care-taking, where possible. Taking care is a very interventional measure. However, I am also pleased that several hearing bodies have pointed out that the amendment of the law may mean that drastic interventions such as care takeover can be avoided. Extending access to the imposition of relief measures will help to establish adequate and effective relief measures in a timely manner, even if the parents oppose them. The proposal allows child protection to impose on three new main categories of action: compensatory measures, designed to reduce the burden on the child of caring measures, which shall help parents to provide care for control measures, which shall verify that children are not subjected to abuse or abuse; In addition, it is also proposed to relax the conditions under which home supervision is to be imposed and it is proposed that it should be possible to impose such measures. Adding the decision to the independent county council will help ensure legal certainty for children and parents. It is important that the child protection service ensures that children are also adequately consulted and involved in these matters. The involvement of children, as also mentioned by the Committee, is an important part of the process. The child’s right of participation is clearly governed by the Child Protection Act and must be an integral part of the child protection process. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee believes that the list of compensatory measures should not be exhaustive, but that it should be opened up to impose ‘other similar compensatory measures’. I still believe that, for reasons of legal certainty, the legislative text should make clear which measures can be implemented. At the same time, I understand that the Committee considers it appropriate that the list is not exhaustive, given that the use of measures in the field of child protection is constantly changing. I live well with that majority proposal if it can also lead to more children getting help at the right time. As regards residence in parents and children’s centres, the Committee has proposed that this be imposed under the same conditions as for other care-changing measures and control measures, i.e. ‘When necessary to ensure adequate care for the child’. The conditions proposed by the Committee are not as strict as the conditions proposed in the proposal, since the proposal proposes that the conditions for taking care must be met in order to impose residence in centres for parents and children. Orders to stay in parental and child centres mean that both parents and children are forced to leave home. In addition to the fact that it is very intrusive to impose some stays away from home, it may also be stressful to be under constant observation. Nevertheless, in this case, I understand the reasons contained in the Committee's comments, and it is good that we also see that staying in parental and child centres can be a preventive measure and not just an action.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3392	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3395	I know that the Council of State is concerned with the best interests of children. But a little bit to the concern of FUG, i.e., the Parental Committee for Primary Education, about the competence of the SFO. I was into it in my post, with the employees who are going to have the daily care where we place children, and especially in the SFO, because the nursery might have a different type of employee. What does the Council of State think about how we can solve that challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3400	Like the representative, I am very concerned that those who have contact with children every single day have a competence to see children, talk to children and reveal them if there is a risk of care failure. Therefore, the competence of those working in kindergartens, in schools, in health centres and not least in SFOs is also an important part of this. Then we know that those who work in the SFO may not have the vocational training that those who work in kindergartens do. We know that SFO is also a municipal task, and it is up to each municipality to have good competence in those positions. I share the representative's concern, and that's something I want to take with me to see how we can manage to ensure that those who work with children, including in the SFO, have competence and know what to do if they detect a care failure, also with regard to the obligation they have to report on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3405	I'll continue a little bit from my post. The councils were inside the council members of their post. They have a heavy workload, and also in the previous case, we allow them a number of new tasks. What does the Council of State think about the number of employees when we're still doing new tasks, and we know that the waiting time won't be shorter?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3412	I'm very glad that some of the first things this government started was an evaluation of the statesmen. We have now received that evaluation, and we have spent these days going through it. I'd like to get back to this. It is important that the staff have the capacity to deal with these matters. What's a challenge now is that there has been a remainder that we haven't managed to bring down, and we see that there are more concerns. However, we see that the employees have worked well by transferring resources from one department to another if one of the employees does not have that much work. We also see that the introduction of a central unit has made it possible to coordinate this work. The employees have also been given extra resources both last year and this year, which I believe will help reduce the processing time. However, the evaluation we receive now becomes important. I can promise the representative that we will follow closely the situation in the county.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3423	The last question I want to ask the Council of States is the proposal we have now put forward in the Chamber, in relation to the obligation of professional secrecy and disclosure. That's important given that we're removing, because there's a lot of things there. Does the Council of State see any challenges in the change we're making? We've asked the Council of State to come back to this, but does the Council of State see any immediate danger of that change?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3430	No, I don't. I think we're all concerned that the obligation of professional secrecy should not prevent those who need information to help children and families from getting it. That is why I am pleased that the Stortinget has made that proposal. I can promise that I will come back to Stortinget with how we will follow up that proposal. The intention must be, when helping children and families, that professional secrecy should not be an obstacle. I would like to remind you that the obligation to provide information goes ahead of the obligation of professional secrecy. Those who need information to help children and families must receive it at all times. I'll come back to Stortinget with a follow-up to that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3437	I just want to repeat that the Christian People's Party agreed with the government's proposal when it came to § 4-4, third and fourth paragraphs. It's just this little supplement that the committee has added, that we've disagreed with. The big disagreement isn't, because we've asked if we can't let it wait a little bit over time and see if it needs to be supplemented. That's not what I was going to ask questions about, but it's a little connected anyway, because in today's evening post there's a big look how many competent people express concern about the quality of child protection in several places. Today, we do not adopt an exhaustive list, but child protection has a much larger scope for action on compensatory measures. We are totally dependent on the trust in child protection in the population. So with regard to the concern expressed in the Evening Post today, about trust, I ask, how will the Council of State meet this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3442	Like those who are concerned about the evening post, I have said that I share some of the concerns that arise, and have invited them to a meeting to see what is missing. At the same time, we rely on child protection to be able to help families early, and therefore the government has launched more measures. We've evaluated the council members, we're working on a new structure, we've set up a law committee to look at new child protection laws, and we're also working on a foster home message. I can promise the representative that these are concerns that we must take seriously. A lot of this is also happening in municipalities, and it is important that those working with child protection in municipalities have the skills and resources to care for those families and children, and that they can help them the best they can.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3449	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3463	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and five lines of response after contributions from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3470	The matter we are dealing with here today is of great importance to many. You can choose to view it as a purely technical adjustment, but nevertheless it affects many. Part of the case is the basic amount, on which many other benefits are also based. After the adjustment of the year, the basic amount increased from NOK 88 370 to NOK 90 068, which represents an increase of PST 1.92. The second part we're dealing with is the adjustment of the other retirement pensions, and there we have a more complicated case, where we also have disagreement in this room, which I'm going to come back to. The budget decided on the pension settlement, and that is the case on which it is based. The adjustments to the social security scheme shall be based on what has been adopted by the majority and the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Grand Duchy. The reason why this year's settlement is more complicated is because of the famous underregulation of 0.75 p.m. Now, when we have moderate wage settlements, underregulation has the consequence that there is a risk of negative purchasing power developments. When we also know that we can expect moderate settlement for years to come, the majority of the committee is united that we are very pleased that the Council of State and the government have taken the initiative, along with the political parties, to go through the principles of underregulation, the aim of which is to avoid a trend in which pensioners over several consecutive years have reduced purchasing power, while increasing the purchasing power of employees. There are, as I said, shared opinions in the committee, and I expect those who support the majority of the committee to make their views known during the debate. So now I want to think a little bit about what's the point of view of the Progress Party. The party that progressed was known to be opposed to the pension agreement. The party to progress is still opposed to the pension settlement. We believe that the pension agreement was initially a savings reform. We believe that pension is an earned right, and we therefore think it was wrong – as all of the other parties did in connection with the pension agreement – among others. to adopt a sub-regulation of 0,75 pst. The Progress Party believes that pensioners should have the same purchasing power development and the same wage growth as other employees. And now, in the very special situation — given the moderate settlement and underregulation — many pensioners in the country are at risk of negative purchasing power developments. It's a situation I don't think anyone foresaw, even the parties that adopted the pension agreement. The Progress Party cannot accept this, and that is why we are proposing today that the Storting should adopt clearly and clearly that negative purchasing power developments for its pensioners are something we do not accept. And once you know exactly what the potential negative purchasing power trend is, the government will immediately come back to the Stortinget, so that the Stortinget will get the necessary decisions and give the necessary appropriations, so that the country's pensioners will not reduce their purchasing power. Some say this is a breach of the pension agreement. Then I would like to remind you a little bit about what was written in the proposal of the Stortinget – before the pension agreement was concluded – on page 133. It was clear that ‘there should be an assessment of the existence of specific circumstances which should be taken into account, if any’. The point of progress is of the opinion that the country’s pensioners are now at risk of being given a reduced purchasing power, which should be taken into account to the greatest extent. On that basis, I would like to address the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3489	The representative of Erlend Wiborg has taken up the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3494	The representative Wiborg stressed that the outcome of the year’s pension settlement is related to the pension settlement entered into in the Stortinget. In the Question Time on 27 May, Left's Sveinung Rotevatn asked if it is now such that the Sundvolden declaration has become out-of-date, after the Progress Party's attempt at a pension fund. Then Minister of Finance Siv Jensen answered the following: ‘But it is beyond doubt what is the government’s governing body and it has joined the bodies of the Progress Party.’ My question to the representative Wiborg is: Is the Progress Party Group one of these bodies?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3504	The party of progress and the government must always deal with it at all times. A government must always deal with the decisions the Storting actually adopts. But the question might suggest that the representative had prepared his line before she heard my statement, because, as I said, the proposition, when the pension agreement was adopted, says that: ‘Evaluate the existence of specific circumstances which should be taken into account, if appropriate.’ The progress party is of the opinion that the country's pensioners are at risk of losing their purchasing power is a special issue, and that's why we want to address it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3514	Government policies indicate that the pension agreement is to be based. That is also what the government has presented to the Stortinget. This is also what the Progress Party Group in Stortinget has followed in terms of payments from the State budget, which is now coming in 2015. Nevertheless, we are in the situation that the Progress Party proposes that, in their opinion, what one does not receive in 2015 will be paid afterwards, in 2016. Isn't this to ride two horses, when you're in on everything for 2015, but is now saying that you're going to have a rematch in 2016? Wouldn't it have been better for the big group to say in 2015 that someone would grant what is the policy of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3519	If you read the comments on the Progress Party, you will see that we are ready to compensate if you find that you have a negative purchasing power development in 2015. But it's hard to predict what inflation will be like in 2015. That's what Lundtigen knows. I don't sign it. The Progress Party will today vote in favour of the government's proposal, but we will make an additional order to the government. It should not be unnatural or unnatural for the representative Lundtigen to make adjustments when a matter comes from the government and possibly grant more. I know we're going to have the agricultural settlement for treatment in a short time, and then I'm aware that there are some parties that are going to make adjustments to what's negotiated.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3526	SV shares the view of the Progress Party on pension reform as a savings reform. That's why we were essentially against it. In a note that we could read in the Evening Post, it said: «We offer more. We know we don't get it adopted, but blame the other parties." My question is: what concerns the representative Wiborg and the Progress Party the most? Is it the economy of the country's pensioners, or is it who's going to blame it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3538	Of course, it's the economy of the country's pensioners. That is why we are promoting the concrete proposal here today. The fact that lots have any internal notes should not surprise anyone. I also expect that the Socialist Left Party has it, and that you also evaluate what you think other parties think about the issues in question. I bit my mark on one thing in the question. The representative claimed that the Socialist Left Party was opposed to the pension settlement when it was dealt with. Int. O. No 67 for 2008-2009, page 25: The ‘majority’ — including the Socialist Left Party — ‘refers to the proposal that the decision of the Storting to regulate pensions during payment with the average wage and price increase is made by regulating the pension with the wage increase and then subtracting a fixed factor of 0,75 pst’. ... ‘The multiple joins this.’ So the Socialist Left Party joined this. The Progress Party did not do that, and I think it is a pity that the Socialist Left Party uses this for party political tactics instead of being with others to help the pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3550	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3554	Few issues are less suitable for political games and double communication than the annual regulation of basic amounts and pensions. It has something to do with respect for the country's more than 1 million inhabitants, who get their main income adjusted through the annual pension scheme. Unfortunately, the year’s settlement is shattered by such a game. The working party thinks this is unworthy. An almost unanimous committee recommends the adoption by the Stortinget of the Retirement Settlement Proposal for 2015, in line with the Employment and Social Affairs Minister's recommendation of 29 May this year. Only the SV have notified that in the revised national budget they will make proposals to increase the resolution framework. An equally broad majority, i.e. all parties in the Committee other than SV, notes in a joint note that the year’s proposal for the regulation of basic amounts, pensions in retirement and current pensions is in line with the pension agreement, which is once again part of the government’s governing body. So far is most of it used to be. There is a tradition that the Storting adopts the pension settlement as it is from the government. This is also the case this year, recommended by an almost unanimous committee, although there are some roles that have been changed a little, for example. The party of progress. What is different this year is two things: firstly, four of the organisations have failed to sign the year’s minutes after the deliberations with the Council of State. We all know why – because the pensioners, with the exception of those with only the minimum pension, could be at risk of having a negative real development in the pension this year, as it looks right now, with about a quarter of a million people. 47 kroner per week. Secondly, we have seen the tendency to insurrection in the Progress Party’s large-scale group against the pension settlement of the party’s own minister, the government has recommended that it submit to the Stortinget. Now this is just my third period of the Storting, but I don't remember having experienced anything similar. At the national meeting of the Progress Party at the beginning of May this year, the Chairman of the Progress Party and Finance Minister Siv Jensen clearly said that the pension agreement is part of the government platform and that last year the regulation was in line with this. Then she confirms that this year's seemingly negative result is also in line with the system. So she's rhetorical: so the bulk of the population is separate from such a situation, as we now see? The answer to that is yes. It is described in detail in Ot.prp. No 37 for 2008-2009, with a deduction of 0,75 pst. instead of calculating the average wage and price. I assume that Siv Jensen and Robert Eriksson also knew it before the Advance Party signed the Sunvold Declaration. But it says a little bit more, which I expect the Progress Party is also familiar with. In the proposition from then on, text and figures show that from the origin of the population's population to the implementation of the pension scheme, a technical factor of 0.75 pst would occur. provided a much better real development of pensions than averages. That has also been the case since 2011. In this year's proposal, the government refers to the initiative it has taken against the parliamentary leaders of the Stortinget. In order to prevent several years in a row with reduced purchasing power for pensioners, while others get more, they agreed to review the principles of annual regulation, based on three assumptions: this shall not affect the settlement of the year. No guarantee against reduced purchasing power shall be provided for each year and any changes shall not impair the sustainability of the pension scheme. I have not heard anything other than that the Progress Party was involved in those talks and gave its support to the government's arrangements. But here too, there are attempts at double communication, when the Progress Party on page 3 of the setting supports the government's arrangement, but everything in the next section says they don't support it anyway. One last example of the difference between Frp 1 and Frp 2, which someone has started to call it: the council indicates that the law binds him on his hands and feet. He can't give another penny. Let's call him and the other Frp County Councils Frp 1. Frp 2, which then becomes Frp in Stortinget, believes that negative purchasing power development must be taken into account and granted more, which means that Frp 1 is illegal, but as Frp 1 seems nice to have a Frp 2 to tell the pensioners, because then the government partner can be blamed, if the development is negative. Well, that's not how we're used to running politics in the Workers' Party. We are facing the pension reform. It had a very clear reason that still applies. We support the government and government council Eriksson and vote in favour of their proposal for pension settlement for 2015, and we have, in contrast to the Progress Party, said that we support the government's arrangements for reviewing the regulatory principles, and then we take a position on the outcome of the work when it is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3577	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3580	Our pensioners have spent a lifetime rebuilding Norway. The Progress Party notes that the Workers' Party does not want pensioners to follow economic developments, and thus do not increase purchasing power this year with moderate wage settlement. What is the logic of this, and where is justice?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3585	Thank you for the question. As I said in my post, the Workers' Party is at the pension settlement. It was a necessary reform, especially when one sees it from a generation perspective. We who are now gradually becoming pensioners earn more and more in retirement, and we are growing more and more in relation to those who are going to pay taxes at working age and pay for our pensions and in addition make up for their own. The Labour Party, as I also said in my post, has not said that we are not in a position to discuss the situation of the year. On the contrary, we have said that the proposal that the Council of State, Robert Eriksson, has taken the initiative on the basis of a strong request from the party leader, Siv Jensen, will be included. It is the Progress Party that has said that they do not support the arrangements made by their State Council for those discussions, not the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3592	I will not comment on the last response from the representative Christoffersen except that it is directly wrong that we do not support the government's proposal, we do, but we make further adjustments. I think the representative could show some more respect for the country's pensioners. There's a five-minute post in the national parliament, where we're actually going to deal with the income development of the country's pensioners who have worked a long life. Then the country's pensioners deserve that the Workers' Party actually tells why they oppose the proposals of the Advance Party to ensure that the country's pensioners have the same purchasing power as everyone else. I want to give the representative Christoffersen the opportunity here and now: what is the reason why the Workers' Party is voting today to reduce the purchasing power of the country's pensioners?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3599	Thank you for the question. It was very good, because then we can clarify that there is a certain difference in what we think about when we talk about respect for the country's pensioners. The working party is honest and clear about what we stand for. There is no working party 1 and the working party 2 in this case. It does so in the case of the Advance Party. The Progress Party is running a game where you won't stand up to what your government has presented to Stortinget. One will not accept what one himself has been able to sign in the Health Declaration. It is quite fair that the Progress Party in its time voted against the pension agreement, but in order to get into government, the Progress Party has also signed that it is the pension agreement in force. I think it's more respectful of the country's pensioners to actually stand for what you've signed on. The alternative would be to go out of government, and there would have been more respect for that game going on now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3604	I did not get an answer to my question. I record that the representative continues to spend all his speaking time talking about the Progress Party and any internal conditions in the Progress Party. Today we are going to vote on concrete proposals. The working party has been so far, unless they turn around, ready to vote to reduce the purchasing power of the country's pensioners. The Progress Party votes to maintain the purchasing power of the country's pensioners. I am now asking the representative to reply as to why she will not vote in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party that pensioners should be kept up to date with their purchasing power. I ask the representative to answer the question instead of expounding it by talking about the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3609	Faced with two alternatives, the Workers' Party has chosen the option presented by the government and with which the government has invited Stortinget to discuss – up against the game The Advance Party is running in Stortinget in this case. We believe that the government and the Party-State Council initiative are the best and the most tidy. The government itself has said that what comes out of it, that calculation, is going to have effects on what you conclude here today. We have said that it is most neat to wait and see what the Council of State of the Advance Party and the Government present to the Stortinget. Then let's take a position on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3616	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3619	This case is well-established and in line with political leadership – both the pension agreement at Stortinget, which the government parties are behind, and the Sundvolden declaration. The matter today is about two things. One thing is that the basic amount of the population's money is increased from 88 370 kroner to 90 068 kroner from 1 May 2015, which represents an increase of 1.92 pst. The same increase will also apply to disabled persons and others who receive pensions and benefits regulated by changes in the basic amount. I have realized that no one has disagreed with the size of the basic amount for 2015. In the case of an old-age pension during payment, this shall be regulated as usual, with an average of the price and salary increases. This is done in practice by regulating the pension corresponding to the salary increase and deducting a fixed factor of 0,75 pst. The 2015 wage increase is expected to be 2.7 pst., as the government estimates in the revised national budget for 2015. Age pensioners have not yet experienced a negative trend in purchasing power. This year there has been a very moderate wage settlement, and the reality in very many jobs is at best zero settlement. We have thousands who are now losing their jobs, even more people are at risk of losing their jobs, and many are on leave. The right has great respect for the model in which we have discussions with different parties before the government takes its decision and submits it to the Stortinget for final decision. I do not know that the Stortinget has changed the government's proposal in the social security schemes here in the storeroom. There has been a strong contribution to the fact that it has always been able to discuss with a number of governments with the various organisations the determination of the government, becoming a majority for and little political noise out of it. It is, in my opinion, a very good model, which is well suited to both the front-line model of Norwegian working life, which is premissive of wage making, and the tripartite cooperation. It would be very demanding if a practice were adopted whereby the treatment of social security settlements, the setting of the basic amount and old-age pensions led to a political debate at the same time as discussions are taking place. It helps to weaken the discussion institute and the possibility of stable framework conditions. The 2015 estimates show that the estimate of wage growth, price growth and the 0.75 rule indicate that current old-age pensions can have a real decrease of 0.15 pst. this year. There is some uncertainty about this because the final figures are not clear until the price increase is clear when 2015 is over. So we can actually have a discussion here that in practice is not real when we get to the end of the year 2015. Against this background, the Right believes that it makes sense to first look at developments in 2015 and then work in parallel with the case in order to find mechanisms that in the future will not result in a reduction in purchasing power for many consecutive years if employees gain purchasing power over the same period. The right is satisfied that both the Council of State and the Stortinget clarify that such a review should not weaken the sustainability of the pension system in Norway. Nor can there be any guarantee against a decrease in purchasing power in some years and any deviation between expected and actual wage growth in the last two years, which is common practice. The review proposed by the government is now supported unanimously by the Stortinget. I'm happy about that. A review will take some time, so any adjustments would in any case not be valid for the 2015 settlement. If any changes are to apply from 2016, we have to come back to when we see the case, like the Workers' Party mentions. The right is pleased that the Council of State chose to invite all the parliamentary leaders of the Stortinget to receive signals before the Council of State discussed with the organisations. It testifies that the government places emphasis on the pension settlement in the Stortinget, respects wage settlement and respects tripartite cooperation, while at the same time wanting to assess unforeseen consequences in the future. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its good work. I think it is good that, despite some political noise, we end up with a unanimous agreement on the facts of the matter, as the government has presented. I'm glad. The right is stuck on the pension agreement and is always going to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3642	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3646	I think the representative Kambe had a balanced and good post, so really I didn't have to ask any questions. But on the basis of my curiosity, I would like to ask the representative, Mr. Kambe: Do you think the Group of the Advance Party has handled the year's pension settlement in a tidy manner and in line with the Health Declaration?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3651	I am primarily pleased with what the government proposed to the Stortinget and that the Committee's position today seems to be unanimously adopted. I appreciate the fact that the big groups in all parties support it. It is a challenge that we have a situation The Storting has not experienced in the past, namely that the social security framework has become such that a zero settlement has been made. My recommendation has been, also to the Progress Party, that the government's proposal would cover the situation for 2015 without breaking the Health Declaration or anything else. We vote in the same way in a number of cases, we should also have voted in exactly the same way in this case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3658	The pension settlement follows the calendar year. There has never been any doubt about that, and that is the calendar year 2015 we are now discussing. The situation we are in is that the Progress Party wants to introduce a new principle, namely that one for pension settlements in 2016, i.e. calendar year 2016, is going to deal with retrospectively what happens in 2015 in such a way – as I understand it – that the draw of 0.75 pst. shall be compensated. Is there a solution to which the Right can join for 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3663	The rules of previous social security settlement have been such that when the matter comes to the discussion meeting with the organisations, as part of the supporting material for the Council of State, there have been the accounting figures for the previous year used before entering into the reality of the offer for the current year. That premise will also apply to next year. If this happens – when we know the price increase for 2015, we know that at the beginning of 2016 – the government has warned that to avoid many years in a row with such a change, a smoothing mechanism system should be found. To today's vote, the Right has said that the 2015 settlement is complete when the Stortinge has dealt with the year 2015, and it will be a separate settlement for what comes in 2016 and forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3670	The system of taking account of the accounts versus the one with which it is budgeted is today's system. There is no one who has agreed to any change in it, and there is an affordable arrangement. But the representative Kambe is talking about looking at the ‘many years in a row’. What was in the pension agreement, and what was on the right, was that the basic amount of the social security was to be regulated by an amount that was less than the accounting wage increase for the average. Does the representative Kambe now think that one should go away from that principle by beginning to miscalculate and see many years in a row? It doesn't change what was at the core, that one should have a different development in the G than the average of employee income in that calendar year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3675	Then I believe that the representative Lundtigen has either heard the error or misinterpreted me. What I'm saying today, and that's in our remarks, is that we support today's model, we vote for today's model. So we say, like the Center Party in its comments and voting today, that in 2016 the government will conduct an investigation into how this might be done in the future. If it becomes a proposal or if it does not become a proposal for a new solution, we have to come back when that matter comes up. For the right, there is no change in the way you regulate this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3680	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3683	What we are dealing with today is an incredibly important matter. It is a matter of financial security for pensioners and for those who receive their benefits on the basis of the basic amount decided today. There is a new situation in Norway today. We are in a situation where what was a strong real income increase for the vast majority of groups is reversed. We learn that many do not have real income growth, and we learn that significant groups have nominal income reductions for their work. There's a backtrace you should bring with you in this discussion. As noted in the opening decision, there was a difference between the budget and the accounts of 0.2 percentage points for 2014 and it has been taken into account. When one also takes into account the reduction of 0.75 pst. as part of the pension agreement, it represents a general increase in the basic amount of 1,16 p.m., up to a little above 90000 kroner. Furthermore, what the government proposes through negotiation with the parties means that the minimum pensioners are growing in relation to the general basic amount, and the growth is 1.42 pst. It's modest, but it's basically important. This means that the minimum pensioner at the ordinary rate now receives NOK 162 566, and it is less than NOK 14000 per month before tax. It is the group that the Central Party has had the main attention at all times – from Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa's legendary efforts as a social minister, when it was just put on the minimum pensioners. We must constantly pay attention to how economic policy works on the security of society. That is why the Centre Party has a special focus on the minimum pensioners, because there is the greatest need to ensure that an improvement is achieved, even in real terms, in the future. With regard to the future, the Centre Party notes that one is going to review the annual regulation, a regulation that allows pensioners over several years to reduce their purchasing power, while employees’ purchasing power increases. This is the relative relationship, but we need to be aware of – as the representative Kambe was in and as he confirmed – that what is in the pension agreement is that you have to have an underregulation of the G of 0.75 pst. It was basically something that, in our opinion, would apply regardless of whether there was a large or small real income increase, or whether it was even the opposite way. For the Centre Party, as mentioned, the problem of this regulation is the minimum pensioners. The problem is that it's percentage adjustment, and that we don't have a crown adjustment, which would seem much more equalizing. But it's a completely different system. A majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party and the SV, considers that any changes to be considered in the future – whether they should apply for 2016, or that a social security settlement for 2016 should also take into account any reduction in purchasing power in 2015. There is a fundamental assessment by the Central Party that it will apply from 2016. What's else interesting to notice is, as mentioned in the string change, the proposals of the Progress Party. Obviously, the Progress Party, like any other party here in this Chamber, is free to propose rates in pension settlements that are different from those set out in the settlement. It is clear from our constitution that the pension settlement is a preparation for the treatment of the Storting, and according to the Constitutional Act § 75, the Stortinget makes the final decisions. But the problem is that the Progress Party rides two horses. The representative, Wiborg, said to me in the line exchange that it is in the proposal that one should look at the real wage increase, i.e. adjusted to the ratio between the budget and the accounts. That is not the reality of the proposal. The reality of the proposal is that one wants a practice in the future – including adjusted for 2015 – that violates the pension agreement. That's what's interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3702	It is amazing how much parliamentary drama it is possible to create for 47 dollars a month. But we have to respect that people consider things differently. I think I'll start somewhere else and raise my eyes. Norway is in a rather serious situation. The oil price has turned heavily on the Norwegian economy, with the case we have seen. Tens of thousands of people lose their jobs. Many people have low wage growth or negative wage growth. In this situation, the social partners have taken responsibility and implemented a moderate wage settlement. Of course, it is demanding for all those who owe it, but for the Norwegian economy and Norwegian competitiveness, of which this government is very busy, it is absolutely necessary, and that is good. Then we have a pension settlement that all the parties on the Storting have at some point settled behind, which results in the situation we are now discussing. But what I think is that we must not, as parliamentarians, as members of the national parliament, always give the impression that the Stortinget has not known what it did, or understood what it did. We have had such a discussion about the frail reform, which came into force this year, and now we have the same discussion again. An unexpected situation has occurred, so we could not foresee this. I think we should have such confidence in our predecessors in this room, in previous and current governments, that they know pretty much what they're doing, and that's the good reason. The fact that one has the regulation of pensions that one has is important for the resilience of the system, and it is important in a generation solidarity perspective. So the Left, like the other party here on the Storting, says that we are open to take discussions at parliamentary level about how to stick to this for the years to come. It's all right, and it might be necessary. But then I would say very clearly and very clearly that such discussions cannot turn into a system where we take from future generations to satisfy today's generation. The Norwegian economy is going through a difficult transition. It's on. It's not just about oil prices. It's about an older wave that makes it demanding to make the welfare state go around. We're going to do that, but then we're going to be dependent on everyone involved. This is what we are about to adopt, wise policy and sensible policy, and it is good that the majority of people take responsibility. So this has become a lot of a debate about how the Progress Party behaves. I think they'll be so honest with themselves and see that when they make proposals in the Storting, which goes not just against the sums, but against the principles that their own government governs, it's not an adjustment. Then there are two different political courses. For me and for the Left, this is quite simply: we stick to what the Minister of Labour proposes. We stick to that government, and we think the government has put forward is wise. Then we will certainly have discussions ahead of us on this, and we shall take them, but solidarity between generations must remain firm. The regenerative power of the system must be there. When there are tough times for the Norwegian economy, everyone must be involved and contribute. I think we should understand that there are too many, but the option is separation more demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3719	Several have pointed out that this is an important debate we have. I'll join you to that. I think many people out there also agree with the representatives on that. Now there is a proposal for social security settlement that will reduce the purchasing power of pensioners. The Pensioners' Association, together with others, has refused to sign the minutes. It's a strong signal to the Stortinget. According to SV, it is unreasonable for pensioners to reduce purchasing power. A pension to live by ensures a worthy old age. It provides a basis for well-being, for fair distribution, for security and for freedom. The reason for the loss of old-age pensioners in the year’s settlement is that the majority of the Stortinget in the 2009 pension reform agreed that old-age pensions should be regulated in line with wage growth, and then 0.75 pst. deducted from the amount. This year's wage growth will be so low that you end up at a level lower than the price increase, so pensioners will get less paid than the price increase. This is not an attempt at adult education by SV, but a reference to a situation that the government has known about for a very long time. It is therefore strange that the Progress Party is promoting proposals against the Progress Party in this matter. SV's position is that it is fully possible to make exceptions to the model when the outcome becomes negative purchasing power for the pensioners. In our view, something else is actually unsocial. Therefore, we propose that pensioners receive income growth as high as the price increase in the year's settlement. We don't want welfare in reverses. When the new pension reform was adopted before the 2005 elections, SV proposed a solution that would ensure that pensioners would be paid in line with employees. It wasn't the majority for that. We respected that majority, and therefore we worked in government to make the implementation of the reform as social as possible. That was our starting point as a government party. I would like to remind you that it was in no way stated in our government statement that the old-age pension for the disabled was to be adjusted by age. It does so in the Sundvolden Declaration, and it was adopted in Stortinget last year. Price tag: 6 billion. spent by disabled old-age pensioners. It didn't happen on our guard. The government has now announced that it will look at future settlements and consider offsetting losses in retrospect. It is also the proposal that is being put forward in the debate. In our view, it is positive that the government sees that something has to be done, but any compensation in retrospect becomes uncertain for those who are concerned about the economy tomorrow. On the SV side, we look forward to an evaluation of the pension reform, and we look forward to a debate on what the principles in it lead to, because we fear today what we feared before the 2005 elections, namely savings. I would like to inform you today that SV will vote against a social security settlement that gives pensioners impaired purchasing power, and that SV will raise its own proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3736	Should the representative Kirsti Bergstø present the SV's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3740	Yes, I'm addressing SV's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3745	The representative Kirsti Bergstø then promoted SV's proposal. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3750	SV is a party dedicated to cushioning economic differences - a party that is aware that the rich have to contribute. One should lift up the poor. So I have a very brief question for the representative from SV, and what I'm asking is whether she can remind me that who is the country's second richest age group?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3755	I would assume that the representative Rotevatn will until some older people have good economic conditions. That's what SV thinks is positive. We want people to have a worthy old age, and we also believe that we can afford to have a worthy old age in the future. Ten years ago, I was in an alliance with young people against the pensioner. We had a pension riot just on behalf of future generations, because we did not buy the story that it is today's pensioners who have gold-plated contracts, but promoted the message about what we feared, that future generations will have to lose. We're also looking at the calculations of how long a 30-year-old has to work today to get a corresponding pension that you would get with an old system.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3762	There is no doubt that there are some older and some pensioners who have low income. There are many minimum pensioners, and they are not given the weight of purchasing power shown here. It's not the ones we're talking about -- we're talking about the age pension list, which is the country's second richest age group. It is a very honest thing to be against implementing the underregulation contained in the pension agreement, and I agree that we should be occupied by future generations. But I wonder: SV has a seat in the Ministry of Finance. If you're supposed to be underregulating, what is the amount of the bill that's going to be pushed over to today's 18 and 19-year-olds, to those who might not get a job, to those who may have just lost the job, when they become retirement pensioners? How many billions are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3769	I understand that the Left and the representative Rotevatn are concerned about youth unemployment with today’s policy – the policy that the government is leading in a very serious situation, where a strong influence should be taken to combat youth unemployment. Although the minimum pensioners are not affected and have their own regulation, I do not think that is a good comparison. It's about the minimum pensioners having very poor advice. Comparing people who have very poor advice, with those who have normal pensions, is not a starting point that SV supports. It's quite right, as it points out, that SV is concerned with redistribution, of well-being, of a free and independent life. That's exactly why we're promoting a policy where there's a fair redistribution through the tax system. We do not believe that a future pensioner is necessary to ensure a worthy old age for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3776	There are many ways to see the truth. The advantage is that we can go back and see what the respective parties meant and voted when the pension agreement was last treated. The Socialist Left Party was part of the majority, which decided to have a subregulation of 0.75 p.m. The progress party was against. That the Socialist Left Party has turned, the undersigned rejoices. There is a difference between the proposal by the Socialist Left and the Progress Party today. The Socialist Left Party says they want to rectify if there's a negative purchasing power trend of 0.15 pst. The Progress Party promotes a concrete proposal to correct, regardless of whether it ends in a reduced purchasing power of 0,15 pst, 0,20 pst. Or 0.30 pst, because we're clear on the principle. My question therefore becomes whether SV will subsidized support the proposals of the Progress Party in order to ensure that pensioners do not experience negative purchasing power developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3783	In fact, unlike the Progress Party, SV is honest in this matter. Our starting point was that we opposed the pension reform, which was pushed through in Stortingen before the 2005 elections. We wanted the principles of pension reform to be an electoral campaign, that there should be something people could say about in the election. Then it's clear that as a government party, we respected the bulk of the population, we respected the pension reform and worked to make it as social as possible. We did that with our government colleagues. We see that we have a slightly different style when it comes to it. Finally, I would like to reply as to whether we will subsidize the proposals of the Progress Party: Yes, we do. We will vote first for our proposal that will secure the pensioners in the settlement of the year. Then we will vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party if our proposal does not receive a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3792	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3795	Today, we are dealing with the social security balance for the current year, which has an effect from 1 May, a social security settlement that gives an increase in the basic amount of 1.92 p.m., for pensioners of 1.16 p.m. and for minimum pensioners with special supplements of 1,42 pst. So we're going to get a new base amount of 90 068 kroner. Much of this debate, I record, has been about what the various parties have said and done. I have been involved in all the treatment of the pension issues in Stortinget, so I know very well what has been said and done in this room. What I have a concern about, as I think it's a great commitment from many parties for, and I also realize that many pensioners are concerned about, is whether it's right to have a negative purchasing power development this year with moderate wage settlement. That is why I am very pleased and proud to belong to a government that says so clearly that they will review the regulatory principles in good time before the next social security settlement. There we have already started talks with the other parliamentary leaders. This question has also been raised in previous years. I would say it so strongly that with this government – with the Advance Party in government – it is the first time you sit down and start going through the regulatory principles. I think that the majority in this Chamber should be pleased, and I also think Norwegian pensioners are initially happy about it. This isn't about 47 kroner a month, it's about a principle. Therefore, the government has said three important things: it is important to maintain the sustainability of our pension systems. It is important to be able to look at what the chairman of the committee had in mind, to have a balancing mechanism, a smoothing mechanism, or what is called, at least look at this which gives the pensioners negative purchasing power development, for years in a row. And we can see if it's evenable that you're not going to get into this situation. It has also been said that if, against assumption, it should now prove that there will be a negative purchasing power development for the pensioners in 2015, then it can be assessed whether it will be compensated in the settlement in 2016. That you make it a problem and some ask questions about it, I also seem a little strange. For social security schemes, it has been regulated throughout the year for the following years. Those principles have always been there. Strengthening these principles and going through the regulatory principles are good for Norwegian pensioners. Then I register with the proposal from SV, the proposal that some pensioners also call for you to feel weakened by this year's settlement. No one has asked for compensation for occupational pensions. Neither is SV's proposal. It's on the old-age pensioners. What about all the hundreds of thousands of pensioners who have occupational pensions, who, with the SV's proposal, might now have gone up a little bit in public health, who have been compensated down through the coordination rules with occupational pensions and are still coming out negatively? This government is also concerned with all of them in occupational pensions, so it would make sense to review the principles in a neat and good way to prevent them from occurring, even when we are going to consider it several years in a row. I have to be allowed to comment a little on what SV had to say, which draws up the living adjustments for the disabled. The underprivileged have no life expectancy adjustment. Older pensioners have an adjustment in their life expectancy. Saying that it wasn't in the old government platform that SV was in, but happened on our guard – no, of course, I think we should be so tidy and admit that life-time adjustment in the retirement pension in the population's security was adopted and introduced in 2011, under the previous government. It's a fact. No one can get away from it. Lifetime adjustment was introduced and adopted in the Grand Duchy under the previous government. There is nothing this government has done and adopted. It seems like you're trying to get away from what you've been up to in the past – it reminds me a little bit about DDE's show «Clown in the Manese» – and I think that's what you should stay too good at when you're in the big business.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3810	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3814	I would like to return to what the representative Wiborg had to say in his last reply to me, namely on page 133 of the previous proposition that Wiborg was afraid that I had not read. I just want to remind Wiborg that it was actually I who wrote that note, and the Progress Party who signed into it. It is said that the government and the parties may ‘assess the existence of any particular situation to be taken into account’ in the settlement process, and the Progress Party states in its own note that negative purchasing power developments are such a special situation. What is the reason why the government has not used the opening that Stortinget actually gave in 2009 and has therefore not evaluated such a request by the Council of State’s own large-scale group?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3819	Yes, that answer is very simple. This government sees that a situation can arise with several years of moderate pay settlement where pensioners can have a negative purchasing power development. As I just said in my post, we're both concerned with old-age pensioners, and we're concerned with them with occupational pensions. That is why we are now reviewing the regulatory principles in order to assess whether a mechanism can be found to prevent this. I'm recording that Christoffersen points to an earlier proposition. It's hard for me to comment on a previous proposition if you don't refer to which proposition you're referring to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3824	It's probably in committee mode that it's Ot.prp. No 37 for 2008-2009, i.e. when we introduced the pension agreement. It says with all clarity – there is nothing this government sees as the first in this country – that such a situation may arise. It is clearly described in words, figures and figures. When the Storting adopted Ot.prp. No 37, the Council of State was the great representative, I just underline it. Why has one then not used the opening that Stortinget gave to assess other considerations than a purely technical regulation? What I could imagine asking is the following: The Swedish Government criticised SV in its post because SV is not involved with occupational pensioners. Now there is SV and the Progress Party 2, i.e. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Does this mean that the Progress Party 2 is also not occupied by the occupational pensioners?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3831	The party of progress is one and the same party. I'm very happy to experience belonging to a party that's occupied by the pensioners. I am proud to be in a government that is busy doing something about the challenge that the representative Christoffersen also points to. If you point to Ot.prp. No 37 for 2008-2009 — yes, it states that this situation may arise. When I was in opposition, we proposed to remove the underregulation – as voted by the previous government. Now the Progress Party is in government. For the first time in history, the Right-Fremskritsparte-Registration will sit down – on the basis also of what was in the 2008 Proposition, Ot.prp. No 37 – and review the regulatory principles. It's never happened before. Now it is happening for the first time in history – where we have to assess it against several years of moderate pay settlement, where we have to assess the occupational pension scheme, and where we have to assess the old-age pensions. I think that's wise. That is a good approach, and it should be clear in good time before the social security settlement in 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3836	The government will review the regulatory principles in the future. At the same time, the Council of State placed emphasis on sustainability. So what does sustainability mean? As I understand it, it is to have adjusted the expenditure on the pension side and the benefit side otherwise to what is the Community's total ability to do in the future. For the Central Party, it is important that this totality is distributed in such a way that a more demanding time is guaranteed of jealousy between people. The last thing is going to be incredibly demanding. So the state council suggested that one could go into a changed regulatory principle of smoothing, that is, that one took a period of time. Its longer period of time than it takes to go back, its relative number of pensioners will get an increased pension compared to a user of today's system. Well, that's one way to think about it, it could be interesting when it goes down. My question is two-part. Stands the Progress Party by the principle that minimum pensioners have a higher pension growth than others, and pensions are generally underregulated forward in relation to the real income of... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3845	The Progress Party and I, as the State Council, are dealing with the government platform. The pension agreement and the pension reform remain in the government platform. This means that minimum pensions are to be regulated by wage growth, while the general rule for old-age pensioners and those with occupational pensions is that the pension is to be regulated by wage growth minus a de facto deduction of 0.75 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3850	So what is the Progress Party's understanding of the situation we're in now is that the system of regulation of minimum pensions should continue, regulation of general pensions should continue, and then the only change is a question of the number of years that one in case should smooth this out, in the way that if one goes many years back in time – let's say five years – when there was a high real income growth, the pensioners will relatively get out better now in the short term when it goes the other way. Is that correctly understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3855	No, that's not correctly understood. What we have presented in the social security settlement is that we should assess such a smoothing mechanism and assess, if there is a negative purchasing power development for pensioners in 2015, whether it will have an impact for 2016. Then it has to go forward in the same way that you've had in social security settlements before. For example, in 2009, we had a aftermath that was compensated the following year. Similarly, this can be done by smoothing out the social security system in 2016. So it's a principle that's been practice in every year of social security settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3860	After all, the media has revealed how the Progress Party has tried to play double – to plan to blame others when they do not implement a social security settlement that should be secured against cuts for the minimum pensioners. That's what the big group can do, but a government council has to be telling the truth. The Council of State just said that a disability pension was determined in the pension agreement. No, it didn't. It was decided when we treated the disability benefit in Stortinget, and then it was decided that the disability pension should have half-life adjustments. It had been decided by the Storting, but in the government statement it said it was going to go away. It's 6 billion when it's fully implemented. kr from late retirement pensioners to the state – greetings The Advance Party, Right, Left and Christian People's Party. I want to ask the Council of State: why is it the state, and not the poor old-age pensioners, who are going to have the six billion?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3865	First of all, I would have asked myself not to speak true. The representative, Andersen, just confirms that I was standing on the speaker's chair and speaking the truth, saying that the Stortinget has previously introduced half-life adjustments for the disabled's retirement pension. I said from the pulpit that the principle of living-age adjustment, which was adopted by the previous government, was also applicable to the disability pensioners when they had reached retirement age. That's no lie on my side. It's a fact, it's just going back in the settings and looking. So the government put forward a proposal where we thought it was right that those who stood until they were 67 years old should not have a lower age pension and a more stringent standard of living than those who withdrew from work and were disqualified at 65 years of age, for example. I think that is a fair principle. Then I register that the Storting has adopted something else, and the government is dealing with the decision to raise the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3872	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3876	I would first like to thank you for the debate so far. Unfortunately, there has been a predictable debate, where the emphasis has been on attacking the Progress Party to avoid talking about the realities of the matter. But fortunately, there is still time to draw, and I am still asking for answers from the parties behind the pension agreement, on what they meant by the sentence that has been mentioned several times – to assess whether there are any particular circumstances that should be taken into account. If the fact that the country's pensioners are going to reduce their income is not a special relationship, I wonder what a particular relationship might be. Then I have to say that there is no way in which the country's pensioners should wear their shoulders, when it is spoken in the debate from this pulpit that for the sake of the sustainability of the system we have to cut pensions, for the sake of solidarity between generations we have to cut pensions. I find it disrespectful to people who have worked and paid taxes over a long life, that it should be an argument to cut pensions for the country's pensioners. It is said that Norway cannot afford it – it disagrees with both me and the Progress Party. I'm recording that the same batches next week may decide to accept 8 000 acids. Then it's not about what it costs – it's completely immaterial, because it's worth it – while the country's pensioners are going to reduce their pension. I have a little sense of it. It has been said and written in advance in the media that the Progress Party here today is going to support the government's proposal, but comes with an addition to what the government has proposed. It may be a bit untraditionally parliamentary, but I want to make a request to the presidency. It is that representatives should possibly be offered basic training in the principle of power-allocation. Because a government comes up with a proposal for the Storing, that a government follows majority decisions in the Storing, and that a government follows the laws that apply at all times, I think it is good, and I take that as a matter of course, but the Storing is of course free to make the assessments that you might want of the various proposals. Today, we have two concrete proposals we are going to vote on – whether or not the pensioners will be reduced in purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3894	The President will note that it may sound like there is a need for such a course.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3897	It's been an interesting debate. This is clearly something quite different than discussing asphalt and railway sleepers, which is what I have usually discussed. I record that the Workers' Party believes that it is a game, and that it is an unworthy debate because one believes something about retirement and how this is. Yes, I represent a party that is concerned about how we ensure that the pensioners in this country will have it. I understand pensioners who I meet and who wonder why it is such that you should be deducted 0.75 pst. each year under-regulation of the pension. Most people don't understand that, and they don't think they get any logical explanation either. Many people say at least – now I have to be careful – that they feel this as a rule. That's at least the feedback we get from pensioners, because they don't understand why they're going to lose more than what other groups are doing. I listened to the interesting posts of the representative Rotevatn and I very much agree with many of his concerns about some of what we now see in the labour market – that there are tougher jobs than it has been in the past. But I think it is important to bear in mind that those who have been pensioners for some years have actually been involved and contributed quite well, even when things have gone up and you have had good times. So you've been drawn 0.75 pst. of the pension. If someone has contributed, it is probably this particular group, after the 2011 pension agreement. I think it's good that we have a government that sees that this might have some very special consequences, namely that you're at risk of a negative development. Yeah, then you have a government council that says that this is actually something that he wants to look at, along with the government, and now fortunately with all the other parties that have said that it's okay now to look at this. Later you can come back and look at the consequences, and then it's possible to fix it. That is what the whole purpose of the proposal that the Progress Party is promoting is. We don't want to risk getting worse this year than last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3908	That this situation could arise was known. The state council and the government knew that before they negotiated. They clearly had it before they sat down at the negotiating table, and they could have gone to the parliamentary leaders of Stortinget and asked: "This effect is coming, we don't want it, are we going to make a quick legal process and arrange it so that no pensioners lose retirement this year? The government didn't. Then it's either about being cloned, or about not having been allowed by the Right. Or perhaps it is that the Progress Party in the government did not have this money in any case when they were to prioritize between their purposes? In any case, I am convinced that none of the parliamentary leaders would have said no at the time, while today's handling has made both the Right and the Labour Party and all the other 'paths' for the pension settlement now defend the principle. I must say I am very disappointed. It was decided when we treated the disability benefit here. It was half the standard of living that was adopted, because if you're out of time, it's not what the Council of State says, that you have chosen to retire – then you're out of date. You can't work any longer, like we're healthy, and you can, you know, zero out the effect of your lifestyle adjustment. That's why we got this through, with quite a fight, I have to say. We were able to figure out that they were going to have 6 billion disabled pensioners. kr with our scheme, adopted by the Stortinget – and as this government, with its supporting parties, has decided that the disabled old-age pensioners should not receive. These are people who can't go out to work when they're 67 years old, if they've been disabled before that. These aren't people who have had any choice, as it sounds like the council thinks. It's quite encouraging, because this is the Council of State that is responsible for the disability, and that is responsible for those who are so unfortunate to get into such a situation. Then the Stortinget should have stood by what we had promised before, that if you're so unhappy that you're not ready, you shouldn't be subjected to this mechanism, which is put there for healthy people to work any longer. But that's the first thing you decided to do, and I wasn't so surprised, because they had also talked about this before the election. But I have to say that I have been terribly surprised, especially that the Christian People's Party has agreed to this cut, and that the support parties think it is good policy not to allow disabled old-age pensioners to lose half-life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3921	I have a few comments: I don't know if anyone else experiences it like me, but I now feel that this debate is starting to get a little bit out of what I think is a little worth. Someone should have asked themselves that it was said and claimed that one spoke falsely. That's probably true, but half of the truths can also help signify a reality. The representative, Karin Andersen, talks about half-life expectancy adjustment for the disabled – it still exists. The right-hand party government proposed to cut it. It was one of the very first things they went into attack on. I even remember asking the council here in the hall what the wrong they had done to deserve it. Primarily, the Left and Christian People's Party took part in stopping it, so it still exists. Karin Andersen can cheer for it a little bit. It is, of course, a decision from the past that it should be evaluated at a later stage, but half-life adjustments continue to apply. The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, was still out on the galley with a «pensionistran». It was the favourite expression of the Council of State earlier, he has stopped using it after he became the Council of State. I still think it's a bad expression, it's not like we cut the pensions by 0.75 pst. We have decided that pensioners will have their share of the productivity development of society, but not as much as employees. We have chosen 0.75 pst. – a technical matter – instead of counting on the average price and salary. In the long run, and also since 2011, the pensioners have actually earned it. When someone chooses to use images like 'ran', I hope the president also allows me to continue using the same image. It really means, with the Sundvolden Declaration, that the Progress Party has joined forces with the cranes, and that the Progress Party part of the research yield was a place of government. I would have much more respect for the Progress Party in this matter if it had been said that this pension settlement and the proposal presented by the government would be too difficult for us, so the Progress Party cannot agree and therefore choose to withdraw from the government. It would have been respectable, but not talking out of both mouths, talking to two tongues. There's a lot of wisdom in old sayings, it's one that says "empty tones fall the most". But we're going to give the government a chance, and we're going to decide what government comes with. At the time when the government presents us with a plan, we might find out that if we have $300 million. Overdue, perhaps also want to use them on those disability pensioners who have lost much more than 47 kroner per week after the disability reform and who have not received support from either FrP 1 or FrP 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3936	The President would point out that the term ‘ran’ for legally adopted decisions on gross domestic product is far from parliamentary practice and use. There are several people who have used this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3939	It is certainly parliamentary to say that one agrees with the position and values that the representative of Christoffersen has taken. I would like to say something about the concept that the pension scheme should look at ‘special circumstances’. That is a wise wording. What is especially demanding in relation to particular circumstances is the development of the labour market: security of income, security of sound working conditions. It is going to be very demanding to ensure that there is no further trend towards Difference Norway, that one can thus use pension settlements to contribute to the homonymity of groups – and not least that pointed out by the representative Christoffersen, and also by the representative Karin Andersen of SV, in the case of the disability pensioners. It's incredibly central, and it'll be exciting to see how the government will follow it up. The representative Wiborg characterised this underregulation as disrespectful, implicit that those who have paid the social security fee have almost the right to benefit the individual when he is a retired person. It's a completely different understanding than what's our system. We have a system in which one in a long life pays taxes and taxes based on, to some extent, taxes according to ability. The social security charge is part of it, and in many respects the social security tax is seen as a tax. It has not been given that the tax paid, or some parts thereof, should be returned in full to the person who paid it. The tax that comes from the different pensions is one thing, it's something other than that it's going to get out of the state fund in the same month. Under-regulation of 0,75 pst. Is nothing wrong, it's a distribution policy. There is a policy of disaggregation of the situation of pensioners. It's always been the Storting that determines this. It is a popular position that different parties have different positions on how to distribute the values of the state. It's okay, but to characterize it as ran is pretty rough. Finally, the Wiborg power distribution principle, the relationship between government and big business, is well known to most of us. What's clear is that the Storting is free to believe that someone wants to know what's coming from the government. The special thing in this case is that the Progress Party in the government has one opinion, and that the Progress Party in the Chamber actually has a different opinion. That is what causes us to get into trouble and the Progress Party to get into trouble today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3952	What made me take the floor one more time was the post from the representative Hoksrud. Welcome back from the Ministry of Transport! There we had many things we fought together about, and of course we have them here in the main hall. What I reacted to in the contributions of the representative, Mr Hoksrud, as opposed to the contributions of the representative, Wiborg, is that what the Progress Party is proposing in this Chamber today is a real zero settlement for the pensioners. It has been characterised as double communication by other parties today. It may have happened before in politics that different parties are trying to engage in double communication. There's something right here that's trying to avoid. What's even worse is if you try triple communication. I experience that the representative Hoksrud did when he started his post by attacking the 0.75 p.m. rule. That is not something the Progress Party has proposed today. I have not heard anyone else from the Progress Party today who is proposing to do so. In addition, before Hoksrud became Secretary of State, he was a member of the Advance Party Group, which approved the Sundvolden Declaration, which was the basis of the government in which he was Secretary of State. It says on page 10: ‘In order to ensure the economic sustainability of the welfare society, the pension agreement shall be settled.’;» Furthermore, ‘The Government will: Ensure future pensions through a responsible economic policy.’ And... «Continue implementation of the pension reform in both the private and public sectors.» The right supports the government's proposals in this matter. We disagree with the fact that the Progress Party is promoting another proposal in addition to voting in favour of the government's proposal, because we believe that the mechanism that is already in place today could be managed in the 2016 war settlement. If the Right Growth Group wants to change the government's policy, we take it up with the government – preferably in advance – and we are on that policy. Remember – it is also a request to the representative of Hoksrud – that the Group of the Advance Party has accepted the pension agreement of 0.75 pst. It will be very demanding if this matter is constantly to come up again, if you argue with knowledge and will. But I agree with the representative Hoksrud: it's probably easier to talk about sleepers, tracks, roads and tunnels. Now the representative is back at work almost the first day of a new committee, so I hope we avoid that kind of communication in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3976	What got me to take the floor was the representative Lundtägen, because he asked me a question in the linecode exchange that I felt I wasn't getting a good answer. I would rather try to answer it properly from here. Just to avoid a misunderstanding, I said you can take, for example. social security settlement 2010 / payroll settlement 2010, if you had a lag – now I don't know if it was a lag in 2010, so don't use it against me, it was meant as an example. But to clarify what I mean, I can say this in the following way: there has been a principle in social security schemes in the past, it is today and will also be so in the future, that if actual wage developments, for example. is higher than the estimated, pensioners will receive more in subsequent years. So it's evened out, just as in the social security bill of the year, where the projected wage trend was 0.2 higher than the actual rate, which is then drawn back on this social security bill. It's the mechanism that you've had in all your social security arrangements. This is the mechanism that I think we should look at through a new smoothing mechanism, where we go through the regulatory principles to also see if we can have a provision that prevents the country's pensioners, year after year with moderate wage settlements, from getting a negative purchasing power trend – that is, buying less milk and bread next year than this year for the same money. It's about looking at whether you can expand and develop that principle in a better way. I hope it was a clearer response to Lundtegen, but at least I feel myself that it was a better response than what was given during the linecode exchange. Then I would like to say to the representative Karin Andersen, as I also said in the lineword exchange: Life-age adjustment for the disabled was introduced during the previous government. In fact, I think it was Councillor Bjurstrøm who put it forward. It is well possible that in the internal negotiations in the previous government, SV received a half-life-age adjustment and not a full life-age adjustment. So this government meant the following – as a principle: if two people have a salary of NOK 350 000, and one is 67 years old, while the other is dissatisfaction when he is 62 years old, for example, why should the person in employment until he/she is 67 years old have a lower age pension than the one who is unfit for work? I think it's a good principle that you should have equal old-age pensions – both of these should be equal to old-age pensions. That was the principle we proposed in the first state budget, which was not adopted in the Stortinget, and we are dealing with the decisions taken by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3987	I have been made aware that I have wronged both the Left and the Christian People's Party. I apologize for that – that was not the intention. I almost have to say thank you for stopping this, for this was a serious attack on senior pensioners who have not had the chance to zero out the living adjustments by working longer. The principle of the new pension reform was that people should work longer. But if you're unhappy, you can't. I'm recording that the Council of State keeps pretending that the situation is the same for the one who can work until you're 67, and the one who can't because you've fallen short. Then all the pensioners notice that this is the case. There are quite a number of old-age pensioners who have come from disability. The reason why there was an agreement on this in the previous government was that you saw that unfairness. Then I am very happy that the Left and Christian People's Party has also supported it now. It seems that the Progress Party has a little bit of each to clean up in its own rows. I noticed the posts of the representative Kambe, who correctly points out that this government has set aside the pension settlement, just as the previous government had done. But there had been nothing wrong with the fact that the council and the government had come to the Storting in ours when they discovered this effect of the lifestyle adjustment, and asked that the Storting quickly changed the law and made sure that at least no one lost. I'm pretty sure then the mood among the other big parties would have been quite different, because they had seen that this was unreasonable. Then it had also not got any fights. If this has had unfortunate consequences for other pensions, I expect the Council of State to clean it up and put forward proposals to ensure that the system does not lose a pension on these regulations. It is possible to create a floor or a principle that says it. I record that it was not done, but that a strategy for double communication – and now also triple communication – was put in place and that you continue with it in the main hall. I don't think that's a wise strategy, because all of a sudden you've messed up into a series of arguments and claims that you can't afford. I will encourage the Council of State once again to get to Stortinget quickly whose problems arise, and not wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e3999	I tend to be pretty clear about what I'm saying, but it may well be that either someone misunderstood me, or I said something wrong. I tried to point out what pensioners meant. It was both what I said – which I should not be allowed to say – and this with 0.75 pst. underregulation. There were pensioners who had little understanding of this, and that's what I was trying to point out. Then I said that I was very pleased that the government has now agreed with the parliamentary leaders that we should look at this, in the special situation that is now – that for the first time since 2011, we are in a situation where it may seem that there can be a negative settlement for the retirement pensioners. I believe that the Council of State has taken this initiative in a very good way. I'm very pleased with that. I am very aware that the government and the Progress Party in the government have accepted what is in the pension agreement and that it should be followed up. I am also very pleased that the Council of State, when you see that things can be unfair, looks at possible grips you can take – at least the problem raises. Then you want to get back to Stortinget in a proper way, and then you want to see what you're going to do next. I hope I have then managed to clarify what happened. It was not meant to try any triple communication or anything else. I tried to tell you about some of the concerns you get from pensioners – that was the message I wanted to get here. I think the debate here is very good. Everyone agrees that the pensioners are important. Fortunately, everyone also agrees to follow up on what the Council of State has wanted to follow up. So we'll see what the result is. But I am very pleased with the proposal put forward by the Progress Party. It is also – after I have managed to get along – in the 2011 agreement that when that kind of special situation arises, you should be able to look at it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4018	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4021	It was the Council of State's reply that I had to take the floor for an article, because I didn't get much wiser. I understand it this way – point 1 – that the adjustment for deviations between expected and actual wage developments in the last two years is going to be stable. Paragraph 2: Under-regulation of 0,75 pst. shall stand firm in the future. Point 3: What is the new principle, if any, is that one should smooth. This means in good Norwegian terms that the figures are to be bullied, or averaging income growth figures over, for example, the last five years rather than – as they are now – over a calendar year. Is that correctly understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4032	The next speaker is the representative of Mr Erlend Wiborg, who is the rapporteur on the subject, then the Council of State Robert Eriksson. The President hopes that smooth principles will also apply to the latter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4037	It was representative Karin Andersen's posts that made me draw again. I fully agree with Andersen's representative that the government has a lot to clean up. I fully agree with the representative, but I think it is a little special that we get criticism that we are not fast enough to change the decisions made by Karin Andersen and SV in 2011. As I read earlier today, the challenges facing the country's pensioners now stem from the decision that the representative Karin Andersen was making, with underregulation of 0.75 p.m. Then I am very happy – as I said instead – that SV has now turned around. That's good. Then we also hope that SV can use its time to be constructive in how we can get a permanent change in this system. In a previous post today, I challenged the other parties, and in particular the Workers' Party, on the clause that ‘special circumstances’ allow us to derogate from the way in which this is to be regulated. The working party has not answered what is to be done, what they consider to be ‘specialities’. The fact that the country’s pensioners are expected to have a reduced purchasing power of 0.15 p.m. is clearly not a ‘special relationship’ for the Workers’ Party. So I ask the Workers' Party to clarify: how big should a loss be before the Workers' Party believes that it is a ‘special relationship’?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4046	Firstly, to the representative Lundtigen: it is quite right that today's principle of balancing between one year and the other in terms of the difference between actual and calculated wage growth is fixed. Yes, that's right, this government is behind the pension reform. Underregulation of 0.75 p.m. as a general rule is established. So to the third, on how to find a possible smoothing mechanism, how to prevent the country's pensioners from having negative purchasing power developments year after year, i.e. buying less milk and bread next year than what they get bought for the same amount this year: this is something we need to look carefully at – together with the parties sitting on the Stortinget – to figure out and come back in good time before next year's social security settlement. That's what we've been thinking about, that's what's in the proposition, and that's what we're dealing with. Then the representative, Andersen, asked why we didn't get here before, as this was known all the way back to 2008. Why did SV already go against a guarantee provision in 2009 when this issue was known? And then we're going to get some criticism that we've done what Karin Andersen wants! The first thing I did was to bring together the parliamentary leaders and show how to address these issues. We discussed with all the parties in Stortinget. We have a common understanding that it is important to investigate and look at the consequences it can have for occupational pensions – that this is carefully addressed, and that it should be provided in good time before the social security settlement in 2016. It is this common understanding that a majority in this Chamber – before we start the social security negotiations – signalled. That the SV believes that all the others have wanted to support us in something quite different than what was signaled – no, SV was the only ones that gave other signals. Very well known, SV alone does not have a majority in this room. We've been dealing with a neat and straightforward way of doing this. I'm very concerned that we're going to do it clean and okay. I think the country's pensioners are pleased that for the first time in history you have a government that will go through these regulatory principles, see both old-age and occupational pensions in the context and find good mechanisms for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4061	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4064	Finally, the situation would have been different if the government had come and asked for these changes to be made now, to establish a principle that no one should lose. The government didn't. That's what we've been criticizing. I know they made another suggestion. They say, well, we do it this way, because that's what the rules are, and then we wait and see if we can do anything next year. That's what we've been criticizing. You could have done it now. It's quite right, as the Council of State says, that then it was only SV who raised it. Then the Progress Party didn't do it. That's something they've come up with in retrospect. So to Wiborg: The pension agreement voted against SV, as the Progress Party. Well, we did, and we had our own setup, and we can document that. When we made a government statement, we accepted the agreement that was agreed in Stortinget against the votes of the Progress Party and SV, as the basis for our government, just as the Progress Party has now done. So the criticism that is being made might as well be brought forward against the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4071	The representative Arve Kambe has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4074	First, I would like to acknowledge the clarification by the representative Hoksrud that it was not his intention to get hurt in order to doubt that the Progress Party today supports the 0.75 p.m. abbreviation, which he himself has voted in favour of in the Sundvolden Declaration. I appreciate that. So it's out of the world, and I don't expect anything else to happen to be created. So to Karin Andersen, who has had to complain about his inaccuracy several times today from the pulpit. Now she has attacked the government for not having seen this abbreviation come, in time. Well, in the state budget, the forecast was 3.3 pst. wage growth. In the revised government budget, after the salary settlement, which was completed in May, only a few weeks ago, it became clear that the salary settlement was 2.7 pst. With the paycheck you thought would come, it would not have been a real downturn for the pensioners. It would have been an increase of 0.35 pst. That's why you didn't come to the Storting... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4081	The number is out. The representative Lise Christoffersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4087	It was a direct question: what does the Workers' Party consider a special relationship? The answer to that is that it can vary from time to time, just as the Progress Party's own government council says – he says in the proposition about the new assessments to be made, that no guarantee should be given against reduced purchasing power for some years. So it can vary from year to year. When Wiborg says that the government gets criticism because one is not fast enough to change, I will answer Wiborg back: it is not in the previous odelstingsproposition that one first has to agree on a scheme for minus, and that one then has to come to Stortinget with a bill change. It is stated that the government with the parties can make that assessment when assessing which pension stoppage to promote for Stortinget. So it could have been done before the case was promoted for Stortinget, that's the whole point of that remark in the odelstingsproposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4094	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4108	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4122	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given to the main speakers of the parties and five replies to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who would have to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4129	Let me first say that this is a committee with a good working environment. We're working on an area where the discussions are often polarized. Nevertheless, we cooperate well and with good tone at the end of the setting. It must be said that for different reasons the setting does not look exactly as it should have done in the case of minority proposals. The Secretariat and the Committee Secretary took this very seriously. We have received service and assistance in large quantities. We are grateful for that. So to the matter. Some people count the success of a welfare scheme according to its cost, how many are on it, or how high a chance it has. We don't. Success in a welfare system depends on how many people it contributes to helping back to work, to self-sufficiency. Here lies the fundamental difference in the view of well-being between the right and the left. That's why the left-hand side calls the right-hand side unsocial. It's not a description of real intentions or commitment, although it might seem like they think so. It comes from the fact that the right-hand side of one scheme will combine different instruments, so that the social benefits together become a good scheme. The transitional benefit has helped many, but for some it has also become a challenge. Until 1998, the transitional aid was of ten years' duration. Most of the parties at Stortinget then agreed that it was too long, and it was reduced from ten to three years. The Right Party and the Working Party agreed on that change. The Rikstrøgdeverket evaluated the change in 2004 and came, among other things: until: ‘For the social marginal group, the loss of transitional benefit meant the doubling of the proportion of persons employed.’ There was a debate on this. Would this improve the system, or would poverty be at risk? That made the system better. Later, the transitional aid has been adjusted in several ways. The conditions have been changed, made clearer – and some say more stringent. The result was that more people came to work faster. Today, there is a majority for all the government's proposals, with the exception of one. I mean overall that we're doing better. In a little bit of different constellations on different suggestions, we make adjustments in line with what we've done in the past. Nothing combats poverty like having a job to go to. That should be the basis for anyone who wants to have a successful social policy, and that is the basis for the proposed changes. We ensure that the education taken is relevant to getting a job. Here, Nav has an important guidance task, but it is true that this is a requirement, in order to prevent longer social benefits than is necessary. We clarify Nav's guidance responsibility, precisely because we know how important close follow-up is. As a continuation of the general rule, that of staying in Norway, we reduce the possibility of receiving money abroad to six weeks. This is today of six months, much longer than is possible for the vast majority of others to leave the country in connection with vacations. It underlines the importance of being in Norway to have good follow-up, and reinforces the ability to monitor Nav. It brings me to the next point: the possibilities of control are strengthened. Between January and April, there has been a report of social security fraud to a lone mother or father of 14 million. kr. It is important that the rules are simple to understand, easy to follow and easy to manage. So let's do something about that. It's no secret that I wish we could also do something about the age limit. In the context of the very positive effects adjustments in terms and duration have had in the past, namely that it has helped people faster in work, I believe the proposal is good and important. Unfortunately, there was no majority for that today. Finally, I want to say something about language. We write and talk about the lock-in effect, appropriateness, conditions, penalties and coincidences. It is important to be professional and precise when talking about these questions. At the same time, we shall never lose sight of the fact that this is about humans. It's about giving help, and it's about giving opportunities to stand on your own. Legal languages can be alienating and, in the absence of a better word, cold. There we must be conscious – probably more than we are. Otherwise, I take up the proposal of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal, like other proposals we are adopting today, is to make the system more effective, and to use the resources for the most important thing, namely to help people in work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4168	The representative Stefan Heggelund has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4173	I agree with Mr Heggelund that the quality of a welfare system is not measured at its cost or how many are on it, but how it works. That's also the exact point. Under the red-green government, we made several grips that improved and strengthened the transition support, which made it an excellent qualification support. We use social security to create change. The most important thing to get out of poverty is to get into work, while the lonely caregivers get something extra to live on in a difficult situation. So that's the problem with the proposal to cut at the age limit. Can the representative Heggelund tell me why it is cheaper to be a lone parent or easier to be a single parent when you reach school age?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4180	It surprises me a little that the representative Trettebergstuen and the Workers' Party are now partly leaving the large consensus that has been on the transitional aid. What the Workers' Party has done in the past has been measures to help people get to work more quickly. The working party has been aware that this benefit is at risk of being locked in, and everyone knows that it is much better for a family to have a safe income than to be on social benefits. That's why we make it clear that Nav's guidance responsibility, so we're doing something about the terms, but that's why we wanted to lower the age limit, precisely because it would be a contribution to helping people get to work faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4185	I don't understand how excluding people from the opportunity to get transitional benefits is a tool to get people to work faster. As I said, the transitional aid is, after eight red-green years, a consistent qualification aid that prevents poverty and creates lasting change. What the government is doing now is just another attempt to cut into the scheme, as was done when the red-greens crashed, as was done during the budgetary procedure last autumn, and as is now done. The only thing you're going to achieve with a limit on age is that more people can't get transitional benefits, and you save 200 million. kr. Explain to me – once again – how cutting at the age limit makes people work faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4192	The Trettebergstuen needs to see this in the context of the other proposals – clarifying Nav's guidance responsibilities, and we change the condition of education – all these things to ensure that people get to work faster or increase their job breaks. So we know that it's better to have a safe income at the bottom than to go on social benefits. That's why we're increasing incentives for this to go faster. Every time you've done something about the incentives in this system, it's been so that people get to work faster. Did Trettebergstien forget what I just said about the 2004 evaluation of the Rikstrygdewerk – what was said, and what is written in a common note, what happened to those who lost the transitional aid, when together we reduced the duration from ten to three years? The Tritebergstien knows that these measures work, but she finds it opportunistic not to be for them, that's the fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4197	The reason why the left-hand side calls the right-hand side social is the repeated attacks on welfare schemes that we see from the right-hand side. An attack on the transitional assistance provided by the government was just changing the age of the child as an entry gateway to the scheme. It's a dramatic intrusion. My question is: why does the representative Heggelund think it is more important that a single-parent for a six-year-old qualifies for a safe job than a single-parent for an eight-year-old?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4204	I want you to get to work as quickly as possible and increase your job break as quickly as possible. Why? Well, in most cases the income is better at 100 pst. job than meeting an activity requirement and then going on social benefits. That's good for child poverty. But I am not surprised that the Socialist Left is opposed to the proposal. The Socialist Left is about any change proposed in welfare schemes to make them better. And it's not the first time the Socialist Left Party has been wrong about this social benefit. They were among the parties opposed to the change made in the 1990s, with a sharp reduction in duration, a reduction of seven years. It was against them, it was unsocial. So it turned out to be very social. So SV should not be a guide in how to develop welfare schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4209	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4213	Child poverty is a symbol of our rich welfare society. No party in this room has done enough to fight it. Don't say that. But there is a difference in the essence of today's government and the red-green, which crashed for eight years, when it comes to the policy of distribution, to the will and to the ability to combat poverty. Child poverty is not combated by providing action plans with fine words so as to carry out unsocial distribution in tax policy by cleaning out tax cuts to those of us who have the most, while – as we see here today – constantly promoting attacks on the very safe arrangements we have and, as we know, helping to ensure that the families where the poor children live get a little better. The transitional benefit is such a scheme. In support of single dependants in a often very difficult situation, the social benefits are poverty-reducing. And precisely because it demands that recipients participate in job-qualifying activities while receiving social security, it ensures that the social security is used to achieve lasting change, self-sufficiency, at the other end. It is, as you know, the most important way out of poverty. As a result, transitional aid is a highly skilled aid that achieves several objectives at the same time, thus being one of the most important weapons against poverty. Let it be said that the majority of the amendments adopted here today are amendments that we in the Labour Party support. There are changes that help to reduce the chances of abuse. It is essential for the legitimacy of the welfare state and social security systems to prevent and reduce abuse and to organise mechanisms to make it more difficult to abuse them. Many of today's proposals contribute to it, and that is of course the Labour Party for. But we're separating layers with the government on a couple of points. One is the proposal that the benefit should be abolished from day one when entering into a consensual union. There is no one who believes that you should receive support as a lone parent while living together. Thus, it may seem a bit funny that today's law provides an opportunity to keep the benefit for up to a year while in a cohabitation. It may also seem a bit strange that the Workers' Party suggests that you lose the social benefits after six months of cohabitation. But life is not as simple or as black and white as a form and a paper and a law paragraph. Anyone who has been in such a situation knows very well that you don't stop being the sole caregiver of your child from the day a new girlfriend moves in. Some will never. For some people it's going to be a short time, for others it's going to be a long time. There is therefore a need for some flexibility, so that people are going to dry up into new circumstances, so that in these new circumstances, there are actually likely to be two dependants before the social benefits fall out. Six months we think is a straightforward flexibility that weighs these considerations. The second thing we're voting against is the proposal to cut the social benefits. It is the proposal to reduce the age limit from eight to six years. It's not like that, as the representative Heggelund said, it's probably a twist that's going to get people to work faster. No, the only way to achieve this is to cut the age limit from eight to six years, to exclude people from receiving transitional benefits. For example, the alternative to receiving transitional benefits and thus being entitled to qualification measures and an increased opportunity to get into self-sustaining work at the other end is to go on. social welfare benefits. The real motivation of the government behind cutting age is a desire to cut the transitional regime. It's not a new wish. We've seen it before. We saw it last year in the budget procedure last year, and we saw it year after year as the red-greens crashed. I am very pleased that a great majority today once again say no to the government's attempts and attacks on a decent, poverty-reducing and qualifying social welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4228	Would the representative like to comment on the proposals distributed in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4231	I'm addressing the Workers' Party's proposal. In addition, I would like to give an explanation of vote. There has been a new proposal on the table this evening, proposal No. 5, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. That is what the Labour Party is against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4238	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4243	Cohabitation has become a common form of life. It is a natural consequence that the legislation on cohabitation and marriage is harmonised, as the Labour Party also agrees. That is why I am a bit stunned, and I think it must be a kind of logical defect of the Workers' Party, when they believe that at the time of the inception of the union, there should be a transitional period of six months before the recipient is deprived of the right to transitional benefit. When the rules on cohabitation and marriage are harmonised and equalised, there should be no different rules on the establishment of cohabitation and marriage. Does the Workers' Party believe that the transitional six-month period should also apply at the time of marriage? In fact, someone chooses to get married before they move together, even though one already has children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4248	I don't think that a social security code is ever going to be able to take over all of the special cases where it might go wrong. But it's still like this that most marriages start with a consensual union. It is not that all marriages last, but it is not at all that all cohabitation lasts either. We listen to those who, at the hearing, strongly disagree with the proposal that the benefit should lapse from day one, because it is going to lead many people to enter into new relationships, and many are going to lose the benefit in short-term cohabitation, where one is actually still the sole provider. And that's the Workers' Party against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4253	The Trettebergstuen and the Workers' Party referred to child poverty. Which part of the scale – for child poverty increased under the red-green government. There were several poor children under the red-green government. Then it is quite brave to stand here and almost present it as this government – which has provided a national strategy against child poverty – that does not want to address this challenge. This is an answer that does not come from the Workers' Party. It's that when you see that every time you make adjustments in terms and duration of the transitional benefit, it helps people get to work faster, or people increase their job breaks faster. Why, then, is the Trettebergstuen against such a proposal today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4260	We have made adjustments in terms and durations earlier. We introduced activity requirements. It turns out to work well. We've also adjusted down the years you can receive transitional benefits. Before it was ten years, now it's three years. It's also proven to work. But the point is that cutting the age limit for the children won't have that kind of effect. The only thing you get with that grip is that it excludes people from being able to receive transitional benefits, from being able to get extra financial help while at the same time being given the opportunity to qualify to become self-sustaining. The alternative to this is e.g. social assistance. It is not poverty-reducing and is not part of the line of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4265	I wonder at the content of the arguments of the Workers' Party regarding having a six-month break in a cohabitation before being willing to pay for the child. In many new circumstances, it may take even longer before he pays kindergarten, SFO, clothing and equipment. But what is nevertheless a fact is that there are at least some others who share the rent, the electricity, the Internet, the newspaper subscription and the food, which makes the total economy of that family dramatically better, both because you have two incomes, and because there are two who share the income from day one. Therefore, the Right Party government believes that it is a point that the day you have a partner changes the economy in that family, regardless of whether the new one comes in, spends its money directly on the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4270	I believe that the line representative Kambe now just came along, proves that the right side has a very narrow view of what a family and what a community actually involves, and how people live their lives. It's not like this for everyone, and far from it for all the families and people who receive transitional benefits, that from the day one of them is on the Internet, two to buy food and have two incomes. That's not the way life is. There's a lot of fate out there, and there's a lot of reasons, for example: may include a girlfriend such as loses the place of residence in a short-term cohabitation without that means that person can contribute financially. These cases, the real life, are what the Workers' Party sees and wants to take into account. That is why we believe that a six-month transitional arrangement will mean the kind of flexibility that we want, so that it does not affect these people in a distorted way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4281	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4284	I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for a good report here today, and not least also for a good work on solving the committee through a major and heavy matter that is important. The issue we are dealing with today stems from the Sundvolden Declaration, where it is clear that the government will change the transitional benefit and introduce clearer requirements for activity. There has been a clear objective for this government – to improve the arrangements, benefits and instruments we have, to get more people out of work, to help more people to be self-sustaining. It's tempting to say that transitional aid is something of an anachronism, that is, a system that was created at a time when society was organized differently, and that now has not much of the same relevance. The transitional benefit shall ensure the income of living for those who are single or alone for the care of children after a break-up. But when the scheme was established, it was established at a time when adultery, for example. was not as accepted as today, and also at a time when it was common for mothers to be often at home, and care was largely given to mother. The old model of society led to many lone mothers being out of work for a few years while the children were young, and they had problems getting a job again when they needed it. But times change. Now it's much more common for both parents to work. It is much more common for both parents to share care for their children after a breakup. School leisure schemes are now in place. A wide range of nursery places is established for those who want it. School start age has been reduced. There are also good arrangements for poor-economy parents with a view to reducing the prices of kindergartens, which this government has also contributed to – reducing the prices of kindergartens for those with the weakest economy. But when times change, society changes, it is also important that we go through the schemes and benefits we have, and see whether those benefits are the right tool to help those we want. Then I have to say that I am disappointed with some parties here today who are choosing a political game and are just going to defend it instead of being involved and figure out how we can adapt the transition aid to be as accurate as possible. We have also seen for many years that the transitional aid scheme extends very far from some recipients. One example, drawn up by former prime minister Vigdis Giltun on a question to the then Minister of Labour Anniken Huitfeldt in 2012, was about a lonely caregiver who changed the direction of study just before she finished her bachelorship, because she could then receive transitional benefit any longer. I think everyone agrees on that is an unfortunate outcome. But when we see that kind of rash, it's important to take the grips we can to reconstruct any loopholes in the system. We also know that we have had many examples of a number of recipients having had new children with those they have – apparently – moved from. Now, these dirtholes we want to close again. I am pleased that the Storting today adopts adaptations to a system that has had the best intentions, but is no longer relevant to society and the time we live in, and that has overly facilitated abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4303	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4306	The representative Wiborg spoke warmly and for a long time about the measures to be taken by the majority in this Chamber. Most of these support the Workers' Party – there are proper measures. He did not talk so much about the measure – the big attempt to cut the scheme – where a jaf should save almost 200 million. Every year, fewer single-parents are given the opportunity to receive financial support while qualifying for work — when the option may be social assistance. This is a proposal which fortunately is not supported by the majority of the population. I don't think it makes any significant impression on the Progress Party, but what does the representative Wiborg think about the fact that the Single Parent Association, FO, NTL – everyone who was at the hearing – warns against that proposal, precisely because it will lead to more single-parents going on other passive social benefits and at the same time it will increase, not reduce, child poverty. Does this make an impression?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4313	If the representative had followed me during my post, she would understand that I was clear that the arrangement had to be adjusted in relation to the time in which you live when assumptions and social conditions change. When the transitional regime was adopted and introduced in its time, society looked completely different from today. There are several structural grips. One thing I had to say was, among other things, school starts have changed from seven years to six years. Then we think it is natural, when school starts change, to suggest that, as a general rule, transition aid should be able to go to the children is six years old, as they can start school, school leisure arrangements, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4318	Although ‘times change’, it is not cheaper or easier to be single-parent or single-parent at school. I want the representative Wiborg to tell me why it's natural to cut, from eight years to six years, because the child starts school when it's six years old. You have kindergarten today, it can't be about babysitting. What is it that makes just six years so innmari much easier to be single-parent and so innmari much easier to be a child of single-parent? On the contrary, we believe that six years, school starts, is a vulnerable phase for many, and there is a need to have this benefit as an extra security and support at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4323	What arrangements are needed to help people with the challenges they face? There are many small children’s parents who have it tough economically. It is not just those who have experienced a relatively recent break-up that has made it difficult economically. Fortunately, the government is doing a lot of work, but I am not going to go up the big tax debate here today. We have a government that comes with concrete and targeted measures for those who are struggling financially. I was aware that the government is choosing to reduce the nursery prices for parents with a weak economy. The working party disagrees. We make it easier for more people to get faster into work. We need to follow up on what schemes we want to use to help people in different stages of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4332	The times change, said the representative Wiborg. It's people who change society, time doesn't necessarily do anything. Those who have changed society in recent years have had equality and well-being as a goal and have tried to create a working life that you can cope with both legs. We who tried to change society in that direction also made transition aid even more accurate, as time went on. That's one thing I don't understand, and I haven't gotten any wiser in the lines, and that's what makes the arrangement more accurate by removing the possibility of receiving transitional benefits if you become a single parent for an eight-year-old?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4337	I'm very pleased with the question. When talking about equality – and equality is an important topic – I believe that the most important factor in ensuring equality is helping people to be economically independent and not dependent on getting money – whether it's from a man of everyone else. It's the most important thing. That's exactly what the government is doing in this case as well. Better provision is made for people to be able to get into education and work — and thus to take care of themselves. The Socialist Left lives well with people living many years on passive benefits. The Socialist Left wanted initially a transitional grant of ten years where there would hardly be a requirement for activity. I'm glad the big crowd doesn't follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4344	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4347	I'm going to try not to go out the debate too far, but I want to thank you for the good debate that has been, and the important focus that has been on the scheme, which actually works. The case is, as many people have had, that it has been adjusted – it has been improved along the way, and it helps to help people who live in poverty, at least many of them, and who have young people living in poverty, back in work and activity so as to get out of poverty permanently. To succeed in that is the important goal that politicians must have. Work is the key to getting out of poverty. The Christian People's Party feels that the proposition has many good simplifications and improvements. There is some liberalisation, and there are some important restrictions on something. The Christian People's Party supports the setting of the Committee, i.e. that we support the adjustments proposed by the government, with one important exception, we do not support changing the age limit from eight to six years. We're referring here to recordings at the hearing, and we'll end up doing that. I also record in the note that the Workers' Party writes about partners/female/partners who are in prison that they should be entitled to transitional aid and ask the government to look at it. I think that is an interesting proposal, and I hope that the government can assess whether it is an opportunity, because it is partners who are in a difficult situation and who can also benefit from the transitional benefit because it can help them in activity, for example. make it possible to get back into work if they do not.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4357	The transitional benefit is an important scheme because it allows single parents to provide children with stability and safety, while at the same time requiring them in such a way that the beneficiary is given the opportunity to qualify for work. It is precisely this combination that is a great combination and an important scheme to continue. It is with this scheme that with many other schemes, there have been changes. Now, as many people have experienced, the period of benefit has been reduced to three years, while the requirement for activity has been reinforced. I would like to stress that it is very important that we have targeted arrangements here that also create the necessary trust outside of others, who are in a more fortunate situation, so that we can get rid of the suspicion that many lone mothers and fathers are experiencing. For this reason, it is important to have a systematic view of creating a regulatory framework that is easy to understand and deal with for the person concerned, and an administration that also has a single regulatory framework, so that one can have a simpler enforcement and a less bureaucratic system, and, as I said, a system that facilitates people to get into work and thus become sailors. For, as stated in the proposal, the whole point is that there should be temporary assistance for maritime aid, and the transitional scheme consists of four benefits – a transitional benefit granted for the maintenance of life, while there is also support for child care, education and mobility grants, which are social benefits for the recovery of expenditure. With regard to the change in limiting access to the payment of benefits when staying abroad, the Centre Party supports it. There will now be access to stay outside six weeks in one year. As others have noted, it is necessary to be in Norway to have a good follow-up. It is also necessary to have confidence in the transitional arrangements, so that, as mentioned above, a person is given general respect for the arrangements for those who need them. It's a change that, in the opinion of the Center Party, is a wise change. Then to go straight to the proposals: the centre party supports proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, which insists that the right to transitional benefits be waived after six months of cohabitation and that benefits can only be received in a single consensual union once during the benefit period. It is important, as has been said by the Workers' Party, that there is some flexibility here. I also think it is important that one should have the security to enter into a new relationship, and that it is good that one should enter into a new relationship, because this will improve the possibility for young people to live well. It is essential, then, that we have the six - month rule before a cower gets the benefit. In my opinion, it is also easier to practice such a six-month rule. Otherwise, the Central Party insists that the age limits of eight and in exceptional cases 10 years respectively should be maintained. When we're on the eight-year rule instead of reducing to six years, it's because the transition from kindergarten to school is a vulnerable transition. It is important that we then have a transitional benefit, so that at least it should not also be able to enter into economic conditions that make that transition difficult. In total, the Centre Party is at the age limits of transitional benefits currently in existence. As regards proposal No: 5, who have come from the Right Party, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party, the Central Party will vote against it. It will not be a responsible consideration to vote in favour of that proposal, since it has not been discussed in the proposal or in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4372	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4375	Age and maturity are no exact size. The centre party has noted that the transition from kindergarten to school is a vulnerable phase in a child’s life. I don't disagree with that, that this may be the case for some children, but when the Central Party chooses to maintain the 8-year limit for the receipt of social benefits, is it the best thing for the child, or does the Center Party emphasize the perspective of adults? And isn't it, even in the opinion of the Center Party, that it's a goal to get into work or education as quickly as possible, so that child poverty can be prevented?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4382	Well, getting to work as quickly as possible is the point. Those who get into work, they thus come into a new situation – one has a better chance of doing so. What's at the heart of us wanting to keep the eight-year rule is the best thing for the child. It's the child's best that's the center here. It's probably no exact size if it's going to be six years or eight years, it's going to be a judgement, it's going to be an assessment, and we're going to evaluate it so that it's important to have a identity, it's important to have an awareness of families that are in such a situation. And if we go a little bit further than maybe some people think is right, I think that's a wise approximation. It is better to invest a little – to put it that way – in the future than to move too fast. So it's a wise balance that the majority fortunately – also with the help of the Left and Christian People's Party – do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4389	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4392	The transitional benefit is an important scheme for many single men and – in particular – women, and it is a system for which we are to fend. At the same time, as with all other social security schemes, we have to keep an eye on it being unbureaucratic, it's going to get people to work, it's going to pay off to work, and one is going to avoid cheating. In this way, I believe that the government has proposed a lot of reasonableness in the proposal for the Storting, and they are also receiving wide support in the Storing today. On the left hand side, we support many of the proposals before us, but we do not all support them. There are some suggestions we think there is reason to adjust in today's order, and where we think the government is going too far. One is on the issue of foreign residence, where one proposes to cut that period down to six weeks. There we have chosen to base ourselves on the assessment of Nav, which means that three months is a suitable hatch, a suitable possibility, which is also one for comparable statements. One of the suggestions we have made today applies to this. When it comes to the education requirement, we think that it is in the strongest form and does not take on the different situations in which many people can live, and the possibility that many people want and should have to take on further training, to improve their working capacity. If so, we also have a proposal of our own. Then there's a proposal we're voting against, and that's the question of age -- changing from eight years to six years. We explain in the setting why Left has taken the position we've been doing, and it's – like the others have assessed it – that here we're in a vulnerable phase of a child's life. It's a difficult transition for many to go from kindergarten to school, and we don't think putting on Alein mothers and fathers increases economic concerns at such a stage is a wise way to go. This is also a proposal that has received quite a lot of criticism in the hearing, both here on the Stortinget and in front of it. When it comes to the distributed proposals from the Workers' Party, the setting states that we will vote against them. Then there is a new proposal, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. We're also going to vote against that. The reason for this is that the transition benefit is meant to help single parents in a demanding situation, and who is the father or mother of your children, does not change your situation as a single parent, so we have challenges to see what the purpose of that proposal is. There was also pretty tough criticism as it was out on hearing earlier this year. So I want to take up my proposals in the vote and thank you for all the good committee work. It has been tough temptations, and it has been difficult to get everything to do together, but with good work from both the case spokesman, from the secretariat and from all the members of the committee, I think we'll be able to achieve goals in a way that represents the will of the Greatness in the various questions, and that's all we're here for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4409	The representative Sveinung Rotevatn then mentioned the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4412	I would like to start by thanking the Left and Christian People's Party for contributing to a majority that prevents the most severe tightening of the transitional welfare system, namely reducing the entrance of the child's age from eight years to six years. I think it is very serious that the government proposed such an attack, but I am pleased that the government parties were put in place by the supporting parties. And why? Well, that's because single-parents have an increased risk of poverty. It's hard to feed kids on one income. In addition, if you have a loose relationship with the world of work, yes, the situation becomes very demanding. That's why the transition benefit is so good, and that's why it's so important, because it's just going to give financial support to single-parents in periods when you need a job or training. We're proud of the transitional support that we helped shape in our government period, and that's because we know that it works, and that it's accurate. More than nine out of ten recipients are women, and when the scheme is tightened up, everyday life becomes tougher for many single mothers, and we risk more kids becoming in poverty. All relationships in life are not planned. Crime and disease are examples of it – it’s independent of your own or your child’s age. If you stay alone and have a job like this. requires a lot of evening work; yes, the situation can be that life does not go on. Therefore, SV believes that single-parents should have the right to receive support for education, even in cases where re-training is required in order to get a job with a working time appropriate to the opening time of kindergarten. People should have the opportunity to qualify for a safe job, which can be combined with the very life situation that lives alone. I would also like to thank the case rapporteur, not necessarily for being so politically mobile, but for being very helpful with the short deadline we have had. The case rapporteur has previously accused SV of being against everything. That's not right. We support a great many of the changes that actually lie here – the changes in the labour market law, the simplifications in the social security law, the fact that there is civil status to determine the entrance to the social security system, the need to have clearer rules for Nav's responsibilities, and not least the need to introduce sanctions rules and common rules for labour-related measures, as well as provisions relating to child-care. What we do not support, and what we vote against, are the rules that do not take into account real life. That is why we are opposed to limiting access to payment on a foreign basis. We think it's enough with the activity obligation and what's there. We are opposed to the loss of the transitional benefit from the first day with new cohabitation and want primarily to maintain today's legislation. Secondly, we will vote in favour of the Labour Party's proposal. And of course, we're opposed to changing the age limit from eight to six years and lifting the exception rule for children's age in the event of a breakup. Finally, I would like to mention that we are going to vote against the new distributed proposal, proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox The left had a good reason for that. I have to admit that there is neither cohabitation nor marriage that makes children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4427	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4430	I would like to express my sincere thanks for the good words of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and I would like to take this opportunity again to underline the good tone and the good cooperation that we actually have in the Committee, despite sometimes deep political disagreements. I have a question for the representative Bergstø and SV. We all agree that the purpose of transitional assistance is to help people to self-sufficiency as quickly as possible. Why, then, should there be specific training requirements for transitional benefits, other than those for redundancy benefits, than those for those who receive training as measures? There are, of course, stricter conditions precisely because we need to get people back to work quickly. Why should it not also apply to transitional benefits?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4437	I think that those benefits are not comparable, and that is because there are other target groups who are on redundancy pay. There's a health example that you have to think about in another way. It is not appropriate for a person who has been sickly notified and who has received redundancy benefits due to damage to the shoulder to become a long-distance driver, for example. Therefore, it is necessary to think of appropriateness in a different way. I fear that such a wording as is now proposed will make the system more rigid and will prevent single-parents, for example. will have the opportunity to take the necessary retraining in order to obtain a job that can be combined with the life situation that alone sustains.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4443	I thank you for your answer. The purpose of these different schemes is to help people get back to work as quickly as possible, and then it is important that Nav is good for guidance, but also to ensure that the training they may have is relevant for getting a job as quickly as possible. Another question is why we are opposed to what we do when it comes to living abroad. Imagine that you are a lone parent and work 100 pst. Then you don't have the opportunity to travel abroad for six months. Does not the government's proposal on control possibilities and the fact that one should be in Norway to be followed up well by Nav, precisely taking into account the ability of the vast majority of others to travel abroad in connection with vacations quite well?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4450	First, I have to say that we agree that the transitional benefit will bring people into work quickly, but then there must also be opportunities for safe work that you can do. Then we think that the obligation to provide guidance to Nav is sufficient and good in order to help the person who is to qualify for a job that can be combined with the life situation and with the needs of the labour market. There are many who have a job and are educated as one thing and work in broad sectors. I don't want to restrict people's educational choices in such a way. So I believe that there are clear entry requirements for the benefit and that there is an obligation to operate with sanctions, that you have to set up if you are called in to a meeting, you have to be active. In the few cases where you can live up to the obligation of activity and be in education, for example. in relation to parental penitentiary, this should apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4457	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4460	I think the case rapporteur presented the matter in an excellent way, but I still want to give a few considerations about it. The whole main purpose of the case presented and dealt with here today has two clear devices: firstly, it is to encourage the beneficiaries to get to work in a faster and more efficient way. The second is to simplify legislation and make it more comprehensible and accessible to those who are to use it. I think that is two good reasons which should be taken into account in legislation. I am pleased that there is broad support for most of the proposals that have been put forward here today, for the whole goal being that people who are in a situation outside the labour market, who have a dependant responsibility, and who are alone in that responsibility, can experience some of the greatest freedom that humans can achieve, namely freedom by being self-sufficient with their own income. I want to facilitate a policy that makes it easier and better to get into working life and experience that freedom. The right-wing Party government believes that it is one of the most important steps to prevent families from becoming low-income families and that young people are growing up with low income and in poverty. That's why I think it's good to now reduce the possibility of taking the transitional benefit to the rest of the world for six months, and to reduce it to six weeks. Why is that good? Well, that's good for two reasons. It is good because it makes it easier for Nav to pursue closer follow-up with professional activity for the individual, for example. a person living in Verdal, who is a lone parent of one child and who is going back to work. It is easier for Nav in Verdal to follow him if he is in Verdal and not in Paris. This makes it easier to conduct vocational training and follow-up in a good way. At the same time, it provides clearer conditions for checking and verifying that the performance conditions are met. I think that's good, when for some time we saw that one of the arrangements that was most abused was the transitional benefit. I don't want schemes that invite abuse, but I want schemes that are good and well-designed for those who really need help getting back to work, and who need those arrangements. That cleaning-up thing is doing this government right now. To be clear about the age limit, what we're talking about is just the transitional benefit. Childcare will remain unaffected by this. It'll still be that way that you can get it to the fourth class step for the kid. So let's not misunderstand this, but let's be clear about what we're actually discussing. I think the best way to avoid poverty is to help people get back to work. I mean, the best way to do this is what this government has put forward here. I would also have liked it to have been decided to change the age limit from eight years to six years, precisely because I want people to get into work as quickly as possible, and that they should experience joy and freedom by being self-sufficient with their own income as quickly as possible. We also have to remember that over 50 pst. of those who receive transitional benefits, have a foot within the working life and combine it with working life. Then we have to make it possible for them to enter the labour market more quickly and increase their position so that they can be self-sufficient. We also need to make the arrangements simpler and more efficient. These considerations are well taken care of, and therefore I am very pleased that there is a broad majority behind most of the proposals for changes that are being addressed here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4483	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4486	A change in the Social Security Act under Chapter 15 will lead to a simplified regulatory framework for both the provision of living support (i.e. transitional social assistance) and support for child care. The regulatory framework will be clearer and easier to understand. As it is today, the rules of Chapter 15 are difficult to understand for ordinary people, and they may be difficult to practice. The aim is to simplify legislation so that it becomes a restructuring process and to strengthen the motivation to get into work. In the context, this is about securing the lone parent and child income for a limited period of time. It is a preparation to take personal responsibility and care for yourself and children on their own income. Getting into work is the most effective way to combat poverty on its own. Looking at the 2004 National Research Office report on transitional aid, it can be noted that the percentage of employed persons increased between 2000 and 2001. There was an increase in income, an indication of several full-time employees and higher income due to completion of education. For people who had little connection to the labour market, losing the transitional benefit meant doubling the proportion of persons employed. The promotion party is very concerned that individuals should have the opportunity to support themselves and that relief measures, such as: transitional benefits, during a period of time, enable one to be self-assisted. Of course, this implies a requirement to be in professional activity. In order to meet the requirements, the beneficiary must either be in work, be in training, register as a job seeker or set up his own business. Let me underline: the party of progress is concerned with non-discrimination under the legislation and believes that a natural consequence would be to equalise cohabitation and marriage. You're not still alone when you're in a cohabitation. Thus, the Progress Party believes that social benefits should be abolished at the time of the inception of cohabitation. In the Committee it was agreed that it was an important democratic principle that legislation should be easy to understand and relate to. Simplification will make it easier for individuals and less bureaucratic.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4501	This is not for the debate. I just want to say that in an incubation, we're going to do something in the voting that no one in the committee has said, that we're removing the age limit for transitional benefits. I have been convening with the other parties in the Committee on this and would like to inform you that there will be a comment on the second reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4506	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 15 and 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4520	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4527	The government is following developments in the labour market. It has done so for a long time and has had regular contact with the social partners. Norwegian business continues to face significant challenges that require conversion. The government's aim is to facilitate the development of business. Innovation and innovation are key to economic growth. The backbone of increased unemployment in Norway and Europe has recently been through — in particular Norway — a marked reduction in oil prices, although it has increased since the bottom of the gap in January. It is still significantly lower than one year ago and is still far too low to start planned investments and accelerate maintenance. A significant decline in oil investment is expected in 2015, and although 2016 will also have a decline, a flare-up is expected during 2016 before there may be a return to growth in 2017. The krona has strengthened as the oil price rises, but it is still weaker than in the years following the financial crisis. This, together with a slightly higher international growth, could contribute to increased exports of goods and services in the future, but will not be enough to counteract the current economic cycle. In May, unemployment increased by 200 in Norway. It was considerably less than you thought. Gross unemployment, which is the sum of total unemployed and job seekers on measures, increased by 100 people. By the end of May, there were 75 000 registered unemployed at Nav. That's an increase of 2,500 from a year ago. The unemployment rate is therefore 2.7 p.m., which is unchanged from May last year. The sum of total unemployed and jobseekers on measures is now 88 600, which is 1000 more than last year’s May. At the end of May, the major change was that 5,400 people with a background from the engineering and ICT sector were completely unemployed. It's an increase of 61 pst. compared to May last year. Most of this increase has come from engineers and civil engineers, where unemployment has increased by 143pst. the last year. Of course, it is in the petroleum industry that the increase has been the largest. Besides engineers and ICT professionals, brokers and consultants and people with a background from industrial work are responsible for the greatest increase in unemployment. These are also occupational groups affected by the alarming situation in the oil industry. Unemployment has increased most in Rogaland, Hordaland and West Agder. In these three counties, the unemployment rate has increased by 49, 19 and 16 pst respectively. In total, this represents 4,100 people, who are mostly involved in oil-related work. This case concerns the law of the permit. 4,750 were licensed in Norway at the end of April – 2,945 of them on a full-time basis and 1,805 of them on a part-time basis. 80 pst. of those licensed in Norway are men. The social partners have taken responsibility, and I want to praise them for how quickly, conflict-free and moderately paid in 2015. Immediately after it was clear, the social partners issued a call to the government to adjust the law on permitting. I am pleased that the government today has unanimous agreement from the Stortinget for the proposal to halve the period an enterprise has to pay the salary to an employee at the beginning of a period of leave from 20 to 10 days with effect from 1 July, and that the period of one employee can receive the daily allowance increases from 26 to 30 weeks. I believe that the government has found a good balance point to support the need for conversion for Norwegian business and working life, while at the same time correcting temporary market failures through a strengthened permitting system. After the employer's period, the government assumes compensation of employees, but the daily allowance is only 62.4 p.m., so there is also an expense for the individual employee. A change of laying rules along with several action places in the revised budget will make a positive contribution. The State budget and the revised budget also note that Nav has to give particular priority to the Rogaland, Hordaland and West Agder counties. At the same time, we know that a number of other things also contribute to this, but this is a response to the legislation on permitting itself. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4559	For a long time, many have warned of tougher economic times and increasing unemployment. The situation we see today is not something that has suddenly arisen, it's a long-known development. Despite the fact that government representatives have said a number of times both in this room and outside that they are closely following the labour market and that they are engaged in keeping unemployment low, they have pursued a policy that largely counters this objective. The consequences of government policy are seen in today's labour market. Labour market policy in the adopted budget for 2015, with tight permitting rules and a low number of action places, has contributed negatively to the difficult situation we see in the labour market. Many unemployed people could still be at work if the government in this area had not implemented its ideological belief that the market should rule. I am very pleased that the government is finally turning around, but believe that since they did not turn around in time, but waited too long, the government must also take responsibility for the many who have now lost their work as a result of the government's policy. The resistance to changing the rules of lay-off, which the government has received legitimate criticism of from then on throughout the working life, once again shows a government that does not understand everyday life in large parts of business. In this case, employers and workers — businesses throughout the country — have stressed the importance of maintaining the skills of firms in times of decline in order to gain market share in peak periods. It worries me that until now the government has not seen this matter in the same way, but hesitant about a change that I cannot understand was anything but ideologically conditional. At least it wasn't reasonable. That is why the amendments to the legislation on permitting which we are finally discussing here today are supported by a unanimous increase. The red-green parties have asked for this change for a long time, and we protested against it when it came, because far earlier than today's government, we saw the danger signs in the labour market. At the same time, we are asking today that the government facilitate the increased use of rolling platforms. It is known that, as a result of less work experience, young people are more likely to experience challenges in working life in recessions. They may experience that lack of longevity results in their being among the first to be laid off. For the same reason, it is those young people who more often have to take more of the burden of being permitted. In this case, we have therefore requested that the government open a more rolling law of leave by facilitating the allocation of leave to several employees within the total 10 days' pay and 30 weeks' leave. We believe that this will make it easier to put in place solidarity mechanisms that prevent those with the lowest length of service automatically being the ones that have to go first. A more flexible regulatory framework for permitting can also help to ensure the competence of businesses. I notice that a majority in this Chamber in the vote criticises our proposal for a solution for increased access to rolling permitting. I will not go into the technical assessments and discussions about this now. What is politically most interesting is that the government parties and the Left are criticising our proposal precisely because it is supposed to be technically difficult to implement, but they are not themselves making their own proposals that can give just increased access to rolling leave. I think this makes it clear that today's government is concerned about the discussion for the sake of discussion, without being really and politically interested in finding solutions that are tailored to the needs of business.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4570	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4573	The representative shall do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4578	Then the representative of Anette Trettebergstien has taken up the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4581	The case today shows most of all one thing: that the government parties deliver what we have promised. We have promised to follow the situation in the labour market and take the necessary steps when necessary. For us in the Progress Party and the Right, the most important thing is that we equip Norwegian society well for the future. This is done by ensuring a robust and good economy and by maximising the use of society’s resources. Labour and human competence may be our most important resources. That is why it is very important that we ensure the proper functioning of the labour market and that we do not leave it unbalanced over time. That is why we in the Progress Party in our programme promise to adjust the permitting arrangements in line with the labour market. That's why the government parties follow closely and actually implement the necessary adjustments in the permitting arrangements, as we did in the budget, and as we do today. At the same time, I must say that I am amazed at the post-war clock that the opposition is now showing. Yes, it is easy to say today that there is now a need for changes in the rules of leave, but it is not the same as saying that it would have been right to do so in June 2014. After all, the point must be to monitor developments closely and adjust them whenever necessary, not to introduce corrections until necessary. If you do the last thing, you're at risk of turning productive labour into wrong places. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about why this is important for the whole country. There's a lot of talk about how permitting rules are important for the maritime business cluster, and – I'm going to be completely open on it – it's not an industry that's very strong in my home country. Nevertheless, it is important to remember that not all establishments that experience more difficult times now are located along the coast. Domestic industries also notice that there are more pressing times and that it may be more difficult to sell their goods. That is why we in Hedmark are also pleased that the rules on leave are now being adjusted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4594	The party supports the proposals to reduce the employer’s period from 20 to 10 days from 1 July 2015, as well as the change that means that the right to receive daily allowances under leave increases from 26 to 30 weeks. It is in line with the Central Party's 2015 alternative budget. We thought it was right to do this from 1 January, and it turns out now that it was a wise position. But it's better to get it now than to have to wait even longer, so that's why it's quite natural for us to support it. We are also involved in a common note and a joint proposal with the Workers' Party and the SV to roll the boards, in such a way that for example. three employees may roll on one leave, but that the employer is only charged with one period of pay. It demands that employees agree – that is the first bid, that is. that there is solidarity and a community, that one distributes the burdens. The only thing left is that it will not only be a better situation for those who are being promoted as a flock, to say that, but it will also give the company the opportunity to keep professionals who you might have spent a lot of resources learning in the company – and that's sensible and wise. That's a very good reason for the proposal of the minority, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. Otherwise, I just want to say that with the situation we are now in, where there will be a much more demanding labour market, when one combines it with the fact that there is free labour immigration from the EEA area, one is facing increasing challenges, not least those who are weak groups in the labour market, those who do not have 100 pst. ability to work but partial ability to work. It is going to be very demanding now to follow up the possibilities of securing them work, and the government has gone out very and said that there are going to be better relationships here than those under the red-green government. It's going to be interesting to see what action you're taking to realize it. Because, as I said, from the point of view of the Centre Party, it is necessary to move from free labour to regulated labour immigration. It's incredibly important that we have a low unemployment rate and that we have a high level of employment. It is the whole foundation for the funding of our universal welfare systems, and there must be greater attention to, not least, the high level of employment we have had, but which is now falling as a result of changes in working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4605	When the government came into office in 2013, it almost started to weaken the rules that allowed employees to be permitted instead of losing their jobs in uncertain times — the rules that have made sure that many companies have just been able to retain valuable skills instead of having to get rid of it. These changes caused many people to lose their jobs when companies encountered difficulties. Therefore, it is very gratifying that the government has now turned its face. But it's late, it's unnecessarily late, and I'd like to remind you of a quote from the Prime Minister after a meeting on the state budget in the government's contact committee last year. At that time, LO leader Gerd Kristiansen was out with a clear message that the government should change the rules of lay-off so as to avoid redundancies in the companies. The NHO was out with support for the message. But Prime Minister Solberg stood on his side. ‘Those who are laid off get work elsewhere’, said the Prime Minister to LO Currently and referred to the ongoing assessment of working life and that she could not register that unemployment was rising. ‘The danger is that the companies will be kept on leave, which can be used to benefit elsewhere’, said the Prime Minister. What was the result? Well, businesses are losing competitiveness and productivity because you have to quit competent people. So it's no shame to turn around, but you get to the goal faster if you turn around in time. That is why I also hope that there is an atmosphere among others to support the proposal from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV on rolling leave. It's about a burden-sharing, which both the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have been involved in, about the fact that it's hard to be on the perm, and it's also about the special and vulnerable situation of young people in the workplace. We see that there is an increase in youth unemployment, and that too many people today are looking forward, but without attaching it. That is why I want to repeat the message that it is good that the government has turned around in its vision, and then I hope that it is possible to have movement in the view of rolling permitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4624	Let me first express a great deal of understanding to all those people who feel uncertain about tomorrow: Do I have a job to do? How am I supposed to support my family? Am I going to be able to do the expenses next month? There are questions many are asking themselves. We as politicians must have that respect and understanding for people. The lump in the stomach that many people have, we're going to take it seriously. That is why I am also extremely proud and happy to belong to the Right Party Government, which is thinking about change, which is: How are we going to secure jobs and build new jobs for the future? How are we going to make sure that you go into a sustainable transition, and you're not left in a situation where that lump in your stomach is going to come back again and again? There this government has started a considerable work. I have to say that I find it a little strange when the representative Trettebergstuen, from the Workers' Party, says that it is the ideological Right Party government that can for that situation on the labour market. In what way does the Trettebergstien believe that this government’s policy is the cause of the global situation we see, the reason why the oil price has fallen? That relationship I can't see. What this government is also concerned about is conversion. We have had meetings, including: This week, with the business community, where I myself was present with Prime Minister, Minister of Industry, Minister of Oil and Energy and Minister of Finance. What do the industries, on a broad scale, say back to the government? They are pleased with the policies and fiscal policies that are being pursued. It's positioned correctly. It participates in and contributes to a low crown price, which helps to ensure better security for the export industries. That's good. It helps to ensure that we have the necessary transition to secure jobs. There were two main demands on the way from the social partners. One was to reverse the permitting rules. The second was several areas of action. This government provided 1,500 additional action posts under the revised national budget. This government reversed the rules on permitting, precisely because we had a good dialogue with the social partners, which shows that tripartite cooperation works in a good way, and it adapts the instruments to the actual situation. Then I also record that the Workers' Party comes up with another proposal, a proposal the Workers' Party has never made before, a proposal that was also not considered when you were in government, even during the financial crisis. Possibly it was because it was too administratively demanding to implement, and because there is a great deal of money that can be passed on to others, which means that you don't necessarily have a provenneutral system. ICT adaptations in Nav to achieve this have also not been taken into account. I'm just recording the fact. Then I also register the fact that from 1 January 2014 it has been equal to the employer's period of full and partial leave. It has made it more possible to obtain good rolling permits and distribute them to several persons, which was not the case under the old legislation, where there was a longer employer's period of leave of less than 40 pst. So it's added up to flexibility. It is added to what the parties have requested by means of good tripartite cooperation. The labour market situation is being taken seriously, and good tools are being put in place to equip Norway for the future, to make that lump of stomach as much as possible to people and to ensure that you have good jobs to go to, not only today and tomorrow, but also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4641	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4644	I in no way blamed the government for the fall in oil prices or the global situation – not at all – what I blame the government for is that they have met the warnings about this situation and the situation of passiveness, with a poor labour market policy, with a passive industrial policy, with measures too late. When we talk about having a good dialogue with the parties, it is tempting to say that the government has at least been slow in thinking, because the social and economic partners around the country and the beach have the fuss about changing the law of the permit since we made the decision that changed it. It's too little, and it's too late. The consequences have been too great. The labour force is now filling up unemployment statistics. Businesses lose valuable and, for some, completely irreplaceable competence. Does the Government agree with the social partners that those who are now in the job queue could continue to be in work if the government had followed the calls of an overall working life to maintain the rules of leave at the level of the Stoltenberg government in 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4653	I record the actual situation, that unemployment started to increase in the spring of 2013. It went up moderately every single month, also at the end of the red-green reign. That's a hypothetical question the representative deals with. Does the representative really feel that you are in full employment when you are on leave? No, you're free. You are connected to an enterprise, but you receive leave money, leave money – you are free. That means you're not at work. You haven't been registered in statistics the same way, but you're not in the world of work. Today we have 2.7 pst. You're out of your mind. It's exactly according to what the forecasts have shown. We see challenges in the market. But I don't think you should draw a black picture either – make everyday life blacker than necessary. We also see light in the tunnel. The Sverdrup project, for example, is one of the big ones that will be launched in 2016, which means that the order books will be filled. Norwegian industry wants jobs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4662	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4678	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 19 and 20 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4707	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4714	Let me first of all thank the Health and Care Committee for a good cooperation and good treatment of these matters. Today, the majority of the population will ensure that conditions are put in place to allow more elderly health workers to participate in working and social life. I am very pleased about that on behalf of the Advancement Party. Recently, this government has submitted a public health report to the Stortinget. The Communication makes it clear that the Right and Advance Party in the Government have a clear objective of facilitating healthy and active ageing. It affects several parts of our society. Among other things, this means facilitating the possibility for older people to work longer. Life expectancy has increased over the last hundred years, people have improved their economy, better living conditions, better opportunities for education and access to healthcare. There are therefore many who have the opportunity to continue to contribute to society, even after reaching retirement age — and more people simply want to stay longer in work. When we talk about the elderly, we often talk about elderly caregivers with care needs and the need for health care. Healthy elderly people — those who still have their health and will, their desire and their ability to participate in working and social life — are easy to forget. I think we need to change that. A sustainable Norway we get when we use all forces. It is also a fact that in the coming years there will be an increasing need for health professionals. It is therefore important to use the valuable labour that a significant proportion of health professionals over 75 years of age make up. I also think it is a great advantage that more patients will have the opportunity to keep their doctor longer, the doctor who has known the medical history of the patient over decades, who knows family and social conditions – and who not least enjoys the full trust of their patients. Many patients will be pleased to keep a faithful, competent and professionally fully up-to-date doctor longer, even though he or she is both gray in hair and born around 1940. I also notice that this age limit is curious. It is distinct in the European context. I see no need for Norway, with a great future need for health professionals, to stick to such special restrictions. Nor is this age limit based on evidence that older doctors and other health professionals pose a greater risk to their patients than their younger colleagues do. The party of progress has long been a champion to remove the age limit for licensing doctors. In 2010, we promoted a proposal for a representative on this subject. This is supported by the Medical Association, which believes: ‘Age limit is less suitable as a means of protecting patients from malfunctioning elderly doctors. either due to age impairment, illness or professional inactivity.’;» [[...]] I am glad that today we also clarify the conditions for authorisation. The authorisation system is important to ensure that we have authorised our healthcare personnel. Today, more education abroad takes place, and more move to Norway to work. It is therefore essential that the SAK, the National Agency for the Authorisation of Health Care Professionals, also carry out a work that ensures, as far as possible, that we have available qualified labour in a resource-efficient way, because the need for health professionals will be increasing in the future. Today, we are taking a significant step in the right direction to give qualified health professionals the opportunity to work longer. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4743	Our health and care services must have the confidence of the population. It requires quality, patient safety and safety at all stages. This is also true in the issue of raising the age limit and in the question of whether we should at all have an age limit for the withdrawal of authorisation. First to the general age limit question: Many countries do not have age limits for health professionals, but recertification schemes involving suitability assessment. Norway does not have such recertification schemes. The Ministry points out that, overall, a general recertification scheme would involve a large number of recertifications and would therefore be very demanding and costly. I note that all parties in today's cases will maintain the age limit principle, although a certain age limit is always demanding, as there are always large individual differences. The working party believes that an age limit for the withdrawal of health professionals’ authorisation is set at the right level, combined with an opportunity to apply for a licence — which precisely ensures individual differences when reaching old age — is a scheme necessary to achieve an objective. At the same time, there is a system which is not disproportionate to those covered by it. There are 15 agencies that oppose the proposal to raise the age limit to 80. Several of these agencies believe today's system works well, and the Norwegian nurses' association says among other things. the following: ‘In order to balance the interests of patients’ demands for competent and sound assistance against the burden of health professionals by having to apply for a licence, we believe that the patient’s interest must go ahead.’ It is equally important for the patient’s confidence in the Norwegian healthcare system to set the age limit for withdrawal of authorisation to 75 years as it is for the safety of Norwegian road drivers to require drivers over 75 years of age to have a medical certificate and to apply for the retention of their driving licence. It therefore appears very strange and as a clear discrimination when government parties, Left and SV want one rule to practice as a doctor and another to practice as a driver. So the same person will be able to operate a life-threatening damaged patient in an operating room, but at the same time they refuse to drive a car. Even in 2010, the Medical Association supported an age limit of 75 years and a practical driving licence test when the age limit for driving licences was raised from 70 years. For the Workers' Party, it is very important to stress that the age limit of today of 75 years is not absolute and does not imply any occupational ban. On the contrary, it is very gratifying that more and more applicants for a licence after 75 years of age. Older health professionals constitute a significant resource with a comprehensive and sound health professional background and experience that should be exploited. For older workers, the threshold for participation in the labour market should be low. Therefore, we ask the government to look at schemes to simplify the process of applying for the renewal of health care professionals’ authorisation after the age of 75. Despite large individual differences and improving general health in the population, the Labour Party does not find sufficient evidence and strong enough arguments to raise the age limit for withdrawal of health professionals up to 80 years. The general age limit in working life is now 72 years old, and the special age limit for health professionals of 75 years is already high. The Labour Party therefore does not support the Government’s proposal and, for the sake of order, would draw attention to the fact that, in the case of Prop. 74 L, the Labour Party will vote against I with the exception of the first paragraph of Section 74. So we're asking for a separate vote on this point. Otherwise, we vote in favour of II, III and IV. In the case of Prop. 99 L, the Labour Party will vote for I, except for the second paragraph of Section 48a, where we support the minority proposal of the Committee. The Labour Party shall also vote in this case in respect of II, III and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4776	Representative Karianne O. Heavy has taken up the suggestion to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4779	It is basically enough to link two short messages to the matters we are dealing with now. Maybe it's also okay at the end of a long day. Firstly, a majority of government parties, Left and SV today support the government’s proposal to increase the age limit for the withdrawal of health professionals’ authorisation from 75 to 80 years. That's good reason. We suggest that several older people should be able to continue working for several years. The age limit has appeared as a signal to health professionals approaching 75 years of age that their work is no longer wanted. It's the wrong signal. We need skilled, experienced health professionals. Doctors, nurses, and dentists with long seagoing service are important mentors and teachers in their fields. They make an important effort in this way, and there is no reason to believe that they are not well able to combine their long experience with updating new knowledge. Secondly, a unanimous committee supports the government's proposal to amend conditions for the authorisation of health professionals. The amendments are proposed in order to clarify the conditions for authorisation, and the whole Committee considers that the changes could lead to improvements in this area. We need clear and good conditions for health professionals to be authorised to exercise their profession. It is about patient safety and is important for trust in healthcare. However, it is also important that the conditions for authorisation are clarified and improved for applicants. It is important that applicants who have taken training abroad are not assessed more stringently than applicants who have taken their training in Norway. There is neither health services nor individual health professionals, especially when we know that we need many, competent health workers in the years to come in Norway. Furthermore, it is important that we ensure that students who want to take their education abroad receive good enough information on the requirements for obtaining authorisation in Norway. That's why we're very pleased that the government is clearly clarifying and clarifying the terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4788	The authorisation system shall contribute to the qualification of authorised health-care professionals to hold a specific professional role. The aim is to contribute to the safety of patients, to obtain good quality health and care services, and not least to trust that everyone working in the healthcare sector has an authorisation that is granted only by having the necessary knowledge at all times. As regards the age limit for authorisation, the Christian People's Party is committed to facilitating active seniors. It is important to provide for good arrangements for the transition between full-time work and retirement. We must facilitate the possibility of as many as possible remaining in work for as long as possible, while at the same time good arrangements are important for workers who, due to wear and tear, have to descend or end earlier than the general retirement age. Today, authorisation, licence and any special permit will lapse when health professionals reach the age of 75. The scheme was put in place to help ensure the overall quality of healthcare, patient safety and trust in healthcare professionals. Today, health professionals may continue to work after the age of 75 if the application is granted. The age limit of the day is not absolute. Health professionals over 75 years of age who have complied with the conditions of the application are granted an extension of their authorisation. These are and will be an important resource in the Norwegian healthcare system, as has already been pointed out. The Christian People's Party cannot see that today's system prevents health professionals from continuing to carry on organised patient-oriented activities, and it is very difficult to see that today's system is perceived as a professional ban, as some claim. I also think that we should listen to the hearings from among others. The Association of Pensioners, the Norwegian Dental Association, the Norwegian Nursing Association, the Norwegian Pharmaceutical Association, the KS and the State Health Authority. All want to continue today's arrangement. The Dental Association points out that it is reasonable for healthcare professionals to be able to demonstrate safety in the treatment of patients after 75 years of age. The State Health Authority will also maintain the current system in the light of the patient’s safety. KS considers that the current documentation requirements are reasonable on the basis of the authority and responsibilities resulting from the official authorisation in the form of a licence. We believe that today’s system both facilitates seniors to be active in the workplace and takes care of patient safety. It also provides health professionals with safety so that they are fit to carry out their important tasks. The Christian People's Party therefore wants to continue the current authorisation system. With regard to the matter of caring for Norwegian students who have taken their education abroad, and others who have training abroad, one sees it as positive that one uses that resource and makes it simple and straightforward with regard to what is required for authorisation – that it becomes even clearer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4807	Older health professionals make up a large resource in the healthcare system with their competence and experience. It's indisputable. The centre party is pleased that it is possible for health professionals to work longer than the normal age limit. We believe that today's system, where one has an age limit that is above the age limit or in the workplace, and where one in addition can apply for further authorisation, is a good and fine arrangement. But we believe, unlike the government, that today's 75-year-old system should be passed on. There's a lot of reasons for that. Many hearing authorities are positive about raising the age limit, but there are also important hearing bodies that are opposed to changing today's laws, including the law. The State Health Authority, the Tannlegeforeningen, the Nursing Association, the Norwegian Radiograph Association, the Norwegian Pharmaceutical Association and the Association of Pensioners. In particular, I notice that the State Health Authority will maintain the current system and argue primarily on the basis of patient safety. I would also like to show that there are few experienced applicants who are looking for an extension of authorisation, and that they are all, most of them who are searching, receiving their application. The overall age limit in working life is 72 years, as several have said, so that a special age limit of 75 years is not so much to complain about. Similarly, many countries do not have the age limit for health professionals, but rather different recertification schemes, which we do not have in Norway. One can stay on Storting for many years without losing the authorization! That we now in Norway don't have recertification schemes, I think I'm still a reason to keep the age limit. Nor can I understand that sending an application for an extension of a licence after 75 years two years at a time up to 80 years and annually thereafter should be a major burden for health professionals. Calling it age discrimination, I think, an exaggeration. Then it's a paradox that ordinary people are required to document with medical statements that they're willing to drive a car when they're over 75 years old, while they're supposed to be able to work until they're 80 years old without such documentation. So the surgeon must be able to operate, but must document to the authorities that he is willing to drive his car home. It is therefore the Right, the Progress Party, the SV and the Left who today support this proposal. I was somewhat surprised by the arguments made by the Left in the Medisin of today's June 3rd this year, where the representative Kjeseth said: ‘These doctors may not be required to carry the scalpel and operate in surgery, but they may have roles as coordinators or have tasks where they have direct contact with patients.’ But you have an authorisation. A provider does not provide a marginal authorization or a coordinator authorisation. So I don't understand that argument. The center party would very much like to have older surgeons and other health professionals in the Norwegian health service, but we believe that it is a wise and sensible arrangement that is one over 75 years old, one must document that one is skilful, in the same way as one must prove that one should be able to drive a car. The centre party does not support its proposal to increase the age limit for the withdrawal of health care professionals’ authorisation, licence and specialist authorisation from 75 years to 80 years. Otherwise we will vote in the same way with the Labour Party both in this matter and in the matter of Prop. 99 L on changes in health professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4834	Then the Central Party has explained its vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4837	I have a script with me, but I listened to Kjersti Toppe's posts and noticed that she said that there is clearly someone who complains that they are not allowed to contribute, and that this is a problem that we are solving today. It is not at all the case that some complaints that they are not allowed to contribute. The thing is, we're facing a challenge with many more older people. Especially from 2025 we get a large growth in the number of older people over 80 years. In addition, we are so lucky in Norway that our life span has increased considerably in the last hundred years. We've got a much better economy, the opportunity to take education in Norway is very good, and in that way we're so lucky to have many hands and good heads over 75 years of age who have the desire and ability to contribute. The number of applications to contribute beyond 75 years has not been world-wide. It's a couple of hundred. The challenge applies not only to those who pass 75 years, but also to Norwegian municipalities and other employers who have to facilitate the contribution of people over 75 years of age. And we're not just talking about doctors. This is equally true of nurses, who should be able to contribute to the care of dementia, in the provision of activities, etc. Many municipalities think it is right that they actually have a job and do not only contribute as freelancers and private practitioners. That's what we're going to do. Right now – the next five to six years – we have a time window in the Norwegian public sector where we don't have a huge pressure on either the economy or employees, which allows us to stretch both as employers and as employees. Fortunately, we also have a large group who have been private practitioners for a long time, who can also adapt and be in a more employee-like relationship. I look forward to including and integrating older workers in the Norwegian health sector more in the future. I believe that many older people also want to deal with older people, both doctors and nurses. There's a unanimous population in the Left who are contributing to that majority here today, and we're gathered that this is a resource that we have to use. We look forward to the possibilities that this gives both Norwegian municipalities and other health institutions, and not least those that are a little up in the years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4852	The age limit of 75 years for the lapse of authorisation with the possibility of applying for a licence after that is perceived as a significant threshold among some groups of older people who wish to continue in the profession. The age limit appears to be a signal that further work is not wanted, and results in older health professionals finishing patient-oriented activities that they really wanted and had the opportunity to continue. There are significant individual variations in the ageing process. Deterioration of cognitive and physical functions may occur at different times during an active life, but the older you get, the risk of impairment increases. We get older, but we have better health, and we live longer. In my opinion, demographic developments indicate that there is not the same specific need for today's age limit as when it was introduced in 1980. Life expectancy has increased steadily since the age limit of 75 was introduced by the Medical Act, and older people remain functionally healthy. At the same time, technological developments help to make it easier to remain professionally up-to-date and to follow up the patient. For healthcare professionals under 75 years of age, there are several instruments that contribute to the maintenance of fundamental considerations of quality, patient safety, trust and soundness of health care. Such means are the health-care professionals' own assessments of safety, the ability of the supervisory authority to monitor the professional performance of health-care professionals and the possibility of limiting or revoking authorisation or licensing. In my opinion, these instruments are also sufficient to provide basic consideration also with an age limit of 80 years. I have noticed that the minority believes that it is equally important for patients to have confidence that the limit of authorisation is 75 years as it is for the safety of drivers that the age limit of the health certificate for continuing to drive a car is 75 years. I don't see the need for identical age limits. The fact that the age limit for driving health certificates was raised from 70 to 75 years in January 2013 is just an example of the fact that the upper age limit is also raised in other areas of society, where this is considered appropriate. The vast majority of healthcare professionals complete patient-oriented activities before they reach the age of 75. Nevertheless, social development, better public health and longer life expectancy contribute to a greater proportion of staff wanting to continue in the profession. It's a pleasure. Older health professionals have comprehensive and sound health professionals and experience that can be better used when they have an opportunity and want to do so. This group is currently a significant resource and will constitute an even more important health care resource in the future. The increase in the age limit, now proposed by the Committee, also contributes to meeting the government's objective of facilitating the participation of older workers in working and social life. The proposal sends an important signal about the role of older people in society and lowers the threshold for older health professionals who wish to continue their patient-oriented activities. I am therefore very pleased that the majority of the committee agrees that the expiry of the age limit for authorisation should be raised to 80 years. I Prop. 99 L also agrees with the amendments proposed for the authorisation of health professionals. The proposed changes are essentially a continuation of the current authorisation provisions. The amendments will clarify and clarify provisions and contribute to greater predictability for applicants for authorisation. These provisions will also be easier to apply, and I am therefore pleased that a Joint Committee is in line with the amendments proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4870	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4873	It's getting late in the evening, so I'm going to be pretty short. I have just one simple question: is the Council of State for or against that there should be an age limit for the withdrawal of health care professionals' authorisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4878	My basic approach to that kind of question is that I'm basically very sceptical that there are at all upper age limits for participation in the world of work. If you were to do something about it, you also had to have other systems in place in other areas. My principle view is that I wish we had avoided it, but I believe that the change we are making now contributes to the fact that we are actually maintaining more or less the same age limit as the time it was introduced, with an adjustment as a result of the development of older people's health and life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4883	I thank you for the answer and record that the Minister is basically against an age limit, but nevertheless promotes a case for the Stortinget about a new age limit. Since he is promoting a matter of a changed age limit, I ask if the Council of State can explain why he then wants one age limit for the withdrawal of health care professionals' authorisation and another age limit for Norwegian drivers. What is the difference between a doctor and a driver, and is the difference so great that it can explain the discrimination that is now taking place?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4888	Yes, fortunately there is a great difference between a doctor and a driver, although a doctor may also be a driver, and a driver may be a doctor. One of the main differences is that, fortunately, we in healthcare have a number of other tools to catch it, too, whose health professionals are unable to carry out their profession. For the kind of impairment that some older people experience, a 50-year-old and a 40-year-old may also experience, and it would be quite daunting if we had a health service where the age limit was the only tool we had to ensure that the patient did not meet health professionals who could not carry out his profession. For drivers, this is a completely different situation, so I believe that there is no basis for comparison. But what I see is that the Stortinget has recently raised the age limit for health certificates from 70 to 75 years, so the Stortinget has also seen in that area that there is a development in society that the law should also follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4893	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 19 and 20. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4903	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4911	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Marianne Aasen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 3, by Marianne Aasen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 4-7, by Anne Tingelstad Wøien, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on proposal No. 8, from Torgair Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to come back with a case where universities with the right to award doctoral degrees may apply for transition to university title.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4941	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4, 6 and 7 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Grand total requests that decisions on the closure of the professional profession at the individual campuses in the UH sector be submitted to the Final Treatment Survey.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to wait with structural changes in the university and higher education sector until the Grand Duchy has addressed the issue of quality in higher education and a new financing system for the sector.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for the county to appoint external directors of the boards of universities and higher education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4968	There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government regularly, and at least once in each majority period, to provide the Stortinget with a thorough analysis of the basic component of the funding system in the UH sector, based on clear cost and strategic leadership.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e4985	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a comprehensive review of the category system in the UH sector, including accreditation and division of labour, as well as its financing.’; The central party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e5002	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with concrete proposals on how to strengthen the role of the UH sector in regional development.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The Government is asked to establish its own research programme for the professional professions.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e5042	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Christian Thinning Bjørnø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No. 2, by Henrik Asheim, on behalf of the Right, the Progressive Party and Left proposal No. 3, from Christian Thinning Bjørnø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for teachers with approved education and who today meet the requirements for education to be able to acquire the new qualifications.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e5071	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to open up to assess its real competence in the subject before 1 January 2014 and, where appropriate, to allow teachers to attend the examination without participating in further training.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e5088	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government does not ask to exclude that teachers who have completed the requirements to be admitted to the teaching position before 1 January 2014 will have the opportunity to attend the examination of weight-bearing studies without having to take part in the teaching.’ The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal. The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance also supports the proposal. As I now see it, it also applies to the Socialist Left Party. That is to say, everyone is voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e5206	There will first be a vote on the Committee's position on Section I, Section 10-2. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e5221	It shall then vote on the position of the Committee on the I, Section 2-3, first paragraph, first sentence, 2-4 and 2-12, third paragraph. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e5235	The Committee shall then vote against the position of the Committee on the remainder of I and II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e5246	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e5256	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e5264	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Christian Thinning Bjørnø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 4, from Christian Thinning Bjørnø on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an assessment of the total need for upper secondary education before an opening for the approval of new upper secondary education institutions.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a specific certification scheme for the establishment of new top-level gymnastics. Top-level sports gymnasiums may only be approved if they meet pre-defined quality requirements and are in line with recommendations of the sporting authority.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e5295	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the case of an extension of the qualification basis to secondary education in a vocational training programme or specific profile, the recognition of schools shall not be granted if the host municipality or the host county opposes such recognition.’; The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e5566	It is first contested by the Committee's position on A, I, Section 2-1, second paragraph, points (h) and (i) and Section 2-2, first paragraph, second and third sentences. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e5581	It goes over the rest of A.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e5591	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e5601	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 4 July 2003 84 on private schools entitled to state support are amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e5682	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Mr Trond Giske, on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 3, from Anders Tyvand on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In order to be admitted to the admission interview, the teacher’s candidate must have 35 school credits, Norwegian grade 3 and European level mathematics.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e5706	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the minimum admission to teacher training is grade 3 in Norwegian and mathematics from secondary school.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a requirement that applicants for teacher training which is not grade 4 or higher in Norwegian and mathematics from secondary school must pass a compulsory pre-school course in order to qualify for admission to teacher training.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e5854	The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e5867	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Socialist Left and the Greens will also vote against this. – It is confirmed. The voting boards showed that there were 84 votes in favour and 4 votes against the law's title and the law as a whole. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 23.33.12]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e5878	The representatives of Hagebakken and Wenstøb have not received a vote in favour, have they? And there's more? Let's do it again. So it's written over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e5892	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e5973	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e6221	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e6231	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e6513	First of all, the Committee's position on Section I, Section 6, first and second paragraphs. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e6528	The Committee's attitude to the rest of the 1 and II are then contested.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e6538	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e6548	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e7072	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e7082	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e7106	During the debate Morten Stordalen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess whether the disclosure obligation and the obligation of professional secrecy adequately allow for the necessary information to be obtained in cases under Sections 4 to 4, or whether changes should be made to the law, and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ The Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e7183	First of all, the Committee's position on the first sentence of the third paragraph of § 4-4. The Christian People’s Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e7198	The Committee's attitude to the rest of I and II are then voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e7208	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e7218	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e7226	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Wiborg, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on the proposal No. 2, from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to ensure, in the context of the treatment of the revised national budget, that pensioners do not lose purchasing power in the year’s social security balance.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e7250	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to come forward with a case as soon as possible to ensure that the old-age pensioners do not reduce their purchasing power in 2015.’ The Socialist Left has warned that they support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e7682	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e7765	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e7775	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e7783	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Sveinung Rotevatern on behalf of the Left 3 and 4, by Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 5, from Stefan Heggelund on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e8242	Alternatively, between the appointment of the Committee to I, Section 15-3, second paragraph, point (a) and proposal No. 1, from the left, which reads:
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e8266	Alternatively, between the appointment of the Committee to I, Section 15-6, first paragraph, point (c) and proposal No. 2, from the left, which reads:
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e8289	Alternatively, between the appointment of the Committee to Section I, Section 15-4, third paragraph, and proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, which reads: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on popular security is amended as follows: the third paragraph of Section 15-4 is replaced by the following: Lone mother or father means a member who is single, separated or divorced. Member living with a person with whom he or she has a child or is divorced or separated from, or living in a marital relationship in a common household without a common child for more than 6 months, and at most once during the granted social benefit period, is not considered to be a single mother or father. If the member is married, he is regarded as a single mother or father when the marriage has ceased and the marriage is required to be dissolved by application for separation and divorce from the county, or by proceedings before the courts.» The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will support the proposal of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e8312	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 is amended as follows: Section 15-4, third paragraph, new fourth and fifth sentences are replaced by the following: If a member has a new child with the same partner while receiving social benefits to a single mother or father for a single child, none of the parents are considered to be a single mother or father. The same applies if the mother or father has previously received social benefits under this chapter for common children.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e8334	The opinion is based on the Committee's position on the first paragraph of Section 15-5.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e8344	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on the first sentence of Section 15-5 of the second paragraph. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it. The voting boards showed that 51 votes were cast and 48 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 23.45.51]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e8355	That's wrong. We have to take this vote again. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it. That is to say, the Right and the Advance Party must vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e8367	Since the first sentence has now been rejected, the President will assume that the third sentence is now lost, as this refers to the first sentence. - Then it's clarified. So the decision that has now been taken is entirely in line with what the committee has been involved in. There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on social security is amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 15-5, the second and third sentences are replaced by the following: After divorce, separation or breakup between unmarried parents, transitional allowances are granted for up to two years until the youngest child reaches the age of 10. In the first year, the requirements for professional activity under § 15-6 must be met, while the second year must be used for the necessary and appropriate training, cf. § 15-6, first paragraph, point (c). The current Section 15-5 second paragraph, the second and third sentences become the fourth and fifth sentences.» The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e8394	The Committee's position is then rejected for the remainder of the second paragraph of Section 15-5 and for the third paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e8404	A vote shall be taken on the Committee's position on the remainder of I and on the Roman numerals II to IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e8414	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e8424	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e8432	During the debate, Anette Trettebergstuen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to adapt the rolling permit regulation to ensure that the holding only has a pay obligation for the number of posts actually permitted at all times.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e8480	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e8490	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e8764	The opinion is based on the Committee's position on the first paragraph of Section 74.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e8775	It's going to be over the rest of the I. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e8835	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e8846	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e8854	In the course of the debate, one proposal has been put forward, proposal No. 1, from Karianne O. Heavy on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e8987	Alternatively, between the Committee's position on I, the second paragraph of Section 48a and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, and the Center Party, which reads: ‘In Law No 2 of July 1999 64 on health professionals, etc. the second paragraph of Section 48(a) shall be replaced by the following: in Appendix (a) the applicant must be under 75 years of age, (b) not unfit for the profession, and (c) have completed practical service or comply with additional requirements if this is provided for in the regulation after the third subparagraph.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e9015	The remainder of I and II to IV are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e9025	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e9035	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-11.ana.ud2516e9048	There is no record. Everything before midnight must be considered a bonus. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It's not. The meeting has been cancelled.
