ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e26	Three permit applications are available: from the representative of Knut Arild Hareide on care leave from 18 May to 31 May from the Højre Group on welfare leave for the representative Peter Christian Frølich Tuesday 19 May from the Højre Group on welfare leave for the representative Regina Alexandrova from 19 May to 21 May On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the county of Hordaland: Astrid Aarhus Byrknes 19-28. May, and Charlotte Spurkeland 19 May For Troms County: Kristian Støback Wilhelmsen 19-21. May
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e71	The representative, Jenny Klinge, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e74	On behalf of the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to amend the criminal law, so that landlords can be held responsible by illegal activities in the premises that are rented out.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e79	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e82	I'd like that. I would first like to make a proposal for a representative on behalf of myself on a major effort on liquid wind power in Norway. I will then propose a new proposal on behalf of myself to reduce material consumption in Norway to a sustainable and fair level.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e89	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e101	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Vidar Helgesen, Monica Mæland and Ine M. Eriksen Soreide will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We will then start with the first main question, which is from the representative Else-May Botten.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e108	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. Norwegian workers now notice a more uncertain situation in the labour market. The unemployment rate is 4 pst. It's the first time in ten years. The fear of mass unemployment is spreading. New redundancies are announced on a daily basis. Oslo-based Subsea 7 alerts cancelling 2,500 employees, many of them here in Norway. Familyside Simon Møxter Shipping on the West flag one ship and put two ships in charge. 70 employees are dismissed — mainly those who are put on land. Those who stand up in this situation have expectations that the government will take political action and do its part. The only thing we see in the review is that the government is taking action to mitigate adverse effects under its own budget and finally realize that it was wrong to cut down on the schemes in the permitting legislation. For employees who have already lost their job, the reverse operation is too late, and companies have lost valuable skills. The members of the government talk about business conversion that will give the Norwegian economy more bones to stand on, but measures that stimulate new growth are absent. At the same time, we see that the government's budget cuts are also within important instruments – such as Innovation Norway, which needs to be reduced. Is it such that the Minister of Industry is sure that she is doing enough in this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e121	The situation we're in now is serious. It experiences all those affected, all communities, all those who lose their jobs. But it's also a long announced conversion. Therefore, in the 2013 budget, the government has already launched a policy to strengthen the ability of business to convert. It's about reduced taxes and taxes. The business community throughout the country reports that money is collected from the companies to pay, among other things. taxes on wealth. Family-owned businesses were affected by the inheritance tax. It is about a great commitment to culture, and it is not least about a great commitment to knowledge, competence and industrial research. In concrete terms, with regard to Innovation Norway, two budgets have now strengthened their programmes by several hundred million kroner. That's the answer to the transition we need to make: we need to create new jobs. That is why we are working on a business plan, which is why we are working on strengthening schemes that allow more people to start their own business. And so it is that we are not in a situation where we now have a package of measures to repair the situation we are in. We need to facilitate transition and new jobs in new areas – and we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e130	The council says that there is a long-established situation, but I disagree very much with that. There is a situation that has caused a rather rapid fall in the oil price, and that oil cover has turned quite hard into the labour market. The government is also always talking about conversion, but it's doing minimal, so if it was so long notified, why didn't you have the tools ready? The answer is that the wealth tax would be growth-promoting, but how much growth have we been given after the huge cuts we've had? What's good about the revision is that you bring appropriations to Sørlandslaben. We are very pleased about that, because it's about research and innovation, but we think it's important to open the toolbox, use it, and not let it rust. So what is the Minister of Industry going to do about using the toolbox?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e137	My point was that everyone knows and knows that we have a two-part economy. Everyone knows we've been extremely vulnerable. All the cost cuts that came in the oil and gas sector. What's going on is the changes in the oil price, and the changes are happening faster than we thought. But this was already taken into account in the 2013 budget. It has continued in the budget for the current year. All the businesses I meet report cost challenges. Then taxes and charges are one of those challenges, and we've done something about that. The most important thing we can do — and we do — is to fill in programmes that invite research and development in the direction of businesses themselves. This is why, among other things: BIA increased by several hundred million. The Eco-Technology Scheme, FORNY2020 – there are a number of schemes to get us to research and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e144	It opens for follow-up questions – first Truls Wickholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e147	The Council of State says that the situation has been a long one, but in its state budget and in the state budget for this year, the government is primarily paying taxes to them with the most. They have done so instead of giving proper priority to permitting schemes, strong measures to combat unemployment and measures for children and the elderly in municipalities. Despite the fact that the Ministry of Finance itself writes that this type of tax measure has little or no effect on growth, the government, probably based on its own right-wing ideology, has justified the tax cuts that will promote growth for Norwegian business. Now, when we look at the situation we're in, does the Minister of Industry really think that we can now see the effects of the big cuts, that the tax cuts have contributed to the growth of the Norwegian economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e152	I meet business all over the country every week. They report a major problem in terms of cost challenges. So we have a lot higher costs than the ones we're competing with. One of those costs is taxes and taxes, and a whole business life reports that the costs must be reduced, they must be harmonised with the countries with which we compete. The government has done something about that, and I think that's right. At the same time, we are focusing on transport – goods, services and people must advance. We also implement a historical focus on industrial research, so that business itself is responsible for the development we need in enterprises. I think these bets are important. So what's happened in a hurry is the change in oil price. Of course, it is very serious for those who are now experiencing redundancies, and therefore we now reversed the rules on permitting, and we are putting in place several places of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e161	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e164	It was good to hear that there was some force in the vote of the committee colleague Wickholm after 1 May – it is reassuring. I agree that in the long term, what the government has set up, together with the cooperation parties, is the right direction for conversion to ensure that we have jobs and businesses that meet tomorrow. Yesterday, the Christian People's Party received a majority to encourage the government to promote its own notification of the industry, just to ensure the basis for other parts of the business than what we've done well, namely the oil industry. Then we see that Norwegian Industry is warning that they believe that the unemployment rate can go up to 200,000. It is very far from what the government estimates in the revised budget. My question is, what does the Council of State think is the reason for such a different understanding of reality in those who work in industry and in the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e176	The number is out. State Council of Malta – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e179	It's always hard to predict the future. What we know about the labour market is that there is a highly skilled workforce that becomes available, but that also gets a job again. We also know that we have less labour immigration than before. Someone wants to move out, too. So it's a large-scale labour market. That's why I think it's very hard to say something about where we're next year at this time. But the Ministry of Finance has created a 4.2pst leave. – if I remember the document correctly – and it is based on great flexibility in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e186	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e189	It was alarming figures that came into the revised budget yesterday. Unemployment is rising, the prospects are partly dark. The government’s answer is words such as ‘robust’, ‘conversion’ and ‘predictability’. The problem is that these words are gradually used so industriously and so uncritically that they lose their content. Nor do I feel that the government is able to fill them with content. The government has cut in Innovation Norway’s professional programmes – in the maritime programme, in the maritime programme and in the travel life initiative, it is cut. In addition, this government has spent 43.5 million. kr to get rid of 40–55 annual works in Innovation Norway. It had to be an additional allocation to get rid of these people. My question is, when you look at the prospects now, wouldn't it be wise to keep the people and the competences of Innovation Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e198	Innovation Norway is a major organisation, and its administrative budget has grown sharply over the ten years they have been in operation. What we have prioritised is customer-oriented and user-oriented applications. This means that we have increased by several hundred million to BIA and to FORNY2020 – nationwide programmes where everyone is invited. We want Innovation Norway to spend more time on customers and less time on administration. It is important to improve the efficiency of the public sector as well. I feel that Innovation Norway also agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e205	Pål Farstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e208	An important strategy to combat increasing unemployment is to stimulate and facilitate more of those who become unemployed, to use their knowledge to start their own businesses or to start new ones — in short, to facilitate more entrepreneurs. I'm glad the LO has got his eyes up because the fact that more people become entrepreneurs is a proper strategy. The LO sees an increasing number of self-employed people who are also members of the LO. An important element for more people to become entrepreneurs and self-employed is the improvement of the social rights of this group. Here's the left and the lo on the left. The question is whether the Council of State will also be involved in this work, or whether the government is simply continuing the policy of the previous government, which has paid little attention to this – we are talking about social rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e215	This government's task is to create new jobs – more entrepreneurs, more who are dry and can start their own business. We fully agree with that. What we've seen in recent years is that Norway has gotten fewer and fewer entrepreneurs, fewer starters of its own business, and we also see that we're well below the OECD average. We're going to do something about that. That is why we have announced that we should make a business plan. So there is a plan for how we can facilitate more entrepreneurs in many different areas of action, because that is what we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e220	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e223	The government is very good at talking about conversion, but it happens very little. I'm standing here with one of the many recordings that the government has got in the spring. This is from Abelia, Norwegian Industry, Norwegian Oil and Gas and Tekna, which provided for a proper effort for technology transfer from the petroleum sector to other parts of Norwegian industry in the revised period. There is one of many perceptions that it is difficult to see again in the revised national budget that the government has presented, where it seems that the government does not see the growing unemployment as an overall task to tackle right now. Many ideas have been made about the need for technology transfer measures, which will be the most concrete thing we can do for conversion. Why doesn't the government do more to do this in practice? The government has a rhetoric for conversion. When is the government going to have a policy for conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e230	We're completely in disagreement with the reality description of the representative here. Changeover is not adopted in a government note. That's something you actually have to do with. The perceptions we have received from business since we joined are very clear: rates of traffic, cut taxes and taxes, carry out simplifications and the rate of nutrient research. So let's do that. We're also looking at all of the recordings that are coming. We're following the situation very closely, but we're listening to the business and the recordings that are coming. That is why we have also implemented it in the budgets for which we have submitted a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e236	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e239	My question is also addressed to the Minister of Industry and concerns the government's proposal to turn Sundays into normal working days. Sunday-open shops are a case with many sides and with rarely many actors who think the government's proposal is a bad idea. Robert Ingvaldsen is a senior lecturer at the BI School of Business in Bergen. He is a former shopping centre manager and a teacher in the retail trade. He recently gave us eleven reasons for Sunday-closed, eleven reasons for keeping today's order. He explains his advice, including: with industry policy arguments and by pointing out that the industry itself does not want changes in current legislation, that they fear higher prices, and that turnover will not increase but spread over several opening hours. He also refers to the risk of increased deportation from the districts, and that there is something you already see in Denmark. The government also points out in its consultation note that the government's proposals for changes could lead to greater and fewer sales of goods and that more of the trade is moving into malls. According to the Ministry, the government's proposals may lead to a restructuring of the industry and to the de-velopment of the least-profitable enterprises. Many of the district stores are well among the least profitable companies, where the margins are very small. If local shops are closed, much of the basis for local communities is also lost, and there is a broad political consensus that district shops are of great importance for maintaining the settlement. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that it is unwise to liberalise the legislation and thus facilitate a development that could weaken settlement in the districts. My question to the Council of State is: Is it a measure for the government that the least profitable companies are shutting down? Is it a desirable effect for district stores to disappear? And: is the government's policy to facilitate more trade in malls and less in small shops and in the centre?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e252	It is probably a question of whether this is within the constitutional responsibility of the Council of State, but I leave it to the Council of State of Malta to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e255	Changes in the Holidays Act are within the Ministry of Culture's remit, but I am responsible for competition policy, and this is a very high level of competition policy. So the answer to the question is short and good that the government wants more competition and more like competition. Sunday-open shops will lead to this. I am well acquainted with the Christian People's Party's view of this and have of course respect for it. It is true that today we have Sunday-open shops, but it is based on the number of square meters, geographically, where you live in the country, and the range of products you have. So you can sell outdoor furniture on Sundays, but not indoor furniture. We want more competition. Many other countries have good experience with this. I also record that the Sunday-open shops we have of less than 100 m2 are full of people every Sunday, so the need for this also seems to be present. Then I register that the industry itself does not want it. I don't think that's very subtle. This, of course, alters the conditions of competition, and it should only be lacking that one does not then promote a view that respects the conditions that exist today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e269	Thanks for the answer. I record that the Council of State does not place very much emphasis on what the industry itself says. There is no call in the industry for us to make this change, nor is there a call among the employees in this industry to be able to work even more on Sundays. I also see that the government is trying to justify that this is optional, because no one is going to force these to be open on Sundays. But then we know that the tribune effect will turn on – when one opens, everyone else has to open. This is how market forces work. And if you also choose to use the Left model, where the municipalities will decide, it is even more distorting to competition, because as a local politician, how can you resist the temptation to open on Sundays if the neighbouring municipalities do so? Does the Council of State see challenges in that kind of argument?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e278	I record that there are different views about this, and there are different thoughts about what this will actually lead to. I am concerned that we get more competition, more like competition and facilitate that the daily life of most of us is different than it was a few years ago. It was a fight to keep shops open after noon. 5 p.m. and to extend the Saturday trade in their time as well. Adding more channels on TV was also a fight. We've been through a lot of these. So I think this is going to be a good step. I think it will lead to greater diversity, and that will lead to increased competition, and I think that is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e285	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Line Henriette Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e288	We have heard a little about what Sunday-open shops can give of challenges for the districts, but the municipality of Bergen is a municipality that the council knows well. There, nine out of ten sole proprietors in the Bergen Centre say they are against Sunday-open shops. Bjørn Olsen, who is a shopkeeper, says: ‘I don’t understand that the Value Party Right will take away from society the only breathing break of the week.’ Governments are subject to more competition, of equal competition. But the Executive Director of the Bergen Center, Steinar Kristoffersen, says this: ‘The proposal leads to an increase in the costs to those operating specialised businesses without the prospect of greater turnover.’ Equal competition, increased competition – yes, but it ends up having to get involved in this competition. Is that what the Council of State sees?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e303	I believe that, regardless of developments, we will see changes in the daily and retail trade as well. It is clear that any change in competition rules can lead to changes in business. It's always nice when Bergen is mentioned. The mountains are one of the largest tourist destinations we have in Norway. However, they cannot have Sunday-open shops, while Geilo as a tourist destination gets it. This tells us something about the legislation we have and how it treats large and small tourist destinations differently. I note that there are different views on this. Bergen applied in his time to have Sunday-open shops, but he did not get it because this was up to the County Council's discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e310	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e313	Trade in goods is one of our largest industries and employs 300,000–400,000 people, so this is largely industrial policy. The council says the government is listening to business. Well, you didn't do that when you reversed the permitting code – weakened it – in a conversion phase. There was no listening when more liberal rules were introduced to allow foreign sellers to pay less VAT on online sales to Norway, nor did they listen to business when the plastic bag tax was introduced, nor do they listen when it comes to Sunday-open shops. What's the biggest paradox is that the government spends $40 million each year. State aid for district shops through the Merkur programme to maintain the district shops, and then a law is to be implemented which will systematically shut down the district shops and centralise the trade in goods on Sundays to the major centres. Does the Minister for Industry consider it sensible for industrial policy to weaken the district stores and then subsidize the district stores with the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e325	I disagree with the premise for the question. There's not necessarily any connection between the district stores and central stores if you keep things open on Sundays, so it's not given. There's a lot of views about this, and there's a lot of opinions about it. I believe that increased competition is good. I think it's good to make sure that most of us live a different life than we did 10, 20 and 30 years ago; at least it looks like this in the Sunday-open shops I frequent on Sundays. So I believe that this could be a good measure. Then it is that we listen to business when we cut taxes and taxes, when we increase the transport budget, when we implement simplification. But that doesn't mean we're doing everything business says, and neither has it ever been our opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e334	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e337	In a previous answer, reference was made to the fact that today's system was wrong because one could sell outdoor furniture on Sundays, but not interior furniture on Sundays, and the competition minister did not think it was a good idea. Then my question is: what is the reason why the government believes that on 1 May, on the second Easter day and on the second Pentecost, it is right to sell outdoor furniture, but not interior furniture? Can the Council of State give a competitive assessment of the conclusion it has reached?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e342	Our starting point is to create more competition, but it's not going to be completely, and it's in recognition that changes of this kind would narrow down today's system, and so we didn't want that. So twelve days a year there will still be discrimination, but it will be much less than today. And then it wasn't just outdoor furniture and interior furniture. So if you sell groceries, you can keep it open if you have less than 100 m2. If you have over 100 m2, you can't. If you're in Geilo, you can act on Sundays if you're in Oslo, you can't. So there's a implemented discrimination, in different ranges, in different places in the country, and we're doing something about it, but not completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e355	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e358	As the government itself does not investigate the consequences of its own policy, the Trade Cooperation Committee has led the DAMWAD Norway consultancy company to investigate the impact of Sunday-open shops. Their findings show that more than 22,000 employees in the retail trade could lose their jobs with Sunday-open shops. The liberalisation of the law will lead to increased costs, including: for wages and salaries, while the total turnover of the industry will remain at a standstill. All the shops will stay open for just not to lose in competition, and for the same reason no one will add to the price. As a result, profitability will fall. You'll be able to get as much as 9 billion. kr more in increased wage and salary costs, and the least profitable have to decrease first. Does the Minister of Industry think that the closure of shops in the districts, increased concentration of large chains and 22,000 unemployed in the trade in goods are good business policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e365	Increased competition is a good industrial policy and equal competition is a good industrial policy. Then I find that there are different views – there are different studies on this – but we also know that other countries live very well with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e372	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e375	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. During the NATO meeting in Wales last year, it was signaled that there was a willingness to increase investment and the licenses to the Defense. NATO aims to increase its defence budget corresponding to about 2 p.m. GDP. The last year has shown that the security situation can change rapidly. This is also an important reason why the Central Party, as the first party, decided at our national meeting that Norway must work for a lift for our defence and meet NATO's objectives. In its mission to the Defence Chief's professional military council, the Council of State has specified that the head of defence shall benefit from the planning of the Defence until 2030. A compensated continuation of the 2015 budget and a budget of 0.5 pst. annual growth in relation to this is the estimated budget level to be used by the Defence Manager. On the other hand, the Government Progress Party, which has the Minister for Finance, decided at its national meeting that Norway should use 2 pst by 2020. of the gross national income of the Defence. This means that the budget must be increased by about 50 p.m., to nearly 70 b.m. kr, in the next five years – an ambitious goal. How does the Council of State assess the value of the advice it will get from the head of defence when its analysis is based on modest budgetary restrictions that break so fundamentally with the agreed policies and ambitions of the government party with the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e382	I'm happy to have this question, because we're now at a stage where the head of defense is developing his professional military advice. I will have it delivered in October, and then the government will start working on the new long-term defence plan. If the representative of Navarsete reads the mission written to the head of defence, she will see that it consists of three parts in terms of the economic path. One is the two paths outlined – it's completely in line with what's been done in the previous mission letter to Defence Chiefs. The budget has also been cut in the past and the defence manager has the ability to plan for cuts in the defence budget. Of course, we haven't added that on our side. But I also operate on a third path, namely that the head of defence, in addition to these two, must consider what is necessary in order to create the defence he believes Norway needs. There I have a expectation, and I have stated, that the head of defence is going to be clear to his needs. So that means that there's an additional path where he has to use the space that's there to explain what he thinks you need to maintain the defence that's needed, as well. Since I became the Council of State, I have been very concerned with one issue, which I felt was not a hearing for in the former government. It is the specific price and cost increase in the defence sector. It is different from other sectors, and it has major implications for the way we formulate the budgets and the way we operate realistic planning. What I'm experiencing now is that the Department and the Defence Research Institute, which have been a good support here, for the first time has a unified description of what is the big cost drivers. This is a very important work in the plan to be able to run realistic budgeting in the future, and I have great expectations of the work being completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e391	I thank you for your answer. There is no doubt that the changes we have seen in the security policy situation make it absolutely necessary to think differently and new in the way we prepare the budget in the future. In an analysis written by former Director of the Defence Research Institute Paul Narum and former Chief of Defence Sverre Dien, it is concluded that the budget line provided as the basis for the defence chief’s professional-military council will in reality lead to the liquidation of national-based defence within 10 to 15 years. According to the Minister of Defence's assessment, is there a failure or lack of the reasoning and calculations put forward by the two, and in that case what kind of failure and lack does the Minister of Defence see in this post?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e397	I was delighted to debate this with the former head of defence Sverre Dien on the current NRK programme yesterday, and I – as I said in my previous reply – have fully agreed with one of the prerequisites of that analysis, namely that it is a particular cost increase in the defence sector that helps to maintain the budgets at the same level of the crown over time, and purchasing power will decrease. This is also the reason why I have been very busy in my time as the Council of State to find a unified understanding of what it is that is the drivers of this cost increase, and how to make sure that the ratio improves. It is also part of the story that former Chief of Defense Sverre Denen has warned against this for nearly 20 years, i.e. that he has addressed the same warning to the former government, where there has been no willingness to address the issue of the specific cost growth in the defence sector. That also means that what he and Narum describe in their article is a development that has gone on for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e404	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e407	There is no doubt that we are going to face an interesting debate on defence policy in the future. On 19 April, the NRK announced that the head of defence had been advised to cut into a number of bases in North Norway. According to the NRK, the coastguard base in Blackland is proposed. The same is true of the Coast Guard base in Harstad. Bardufoss and Andøya Air Station are proposed for closure and the military aviation school section for Bardufoss. An implementation of something like this would have led to a rowbreaking of a part of the Defense in the North. Right-wing rapporteur in Sortland has little sense of the proposals and says that she has a clear expectation that the government will not cut the defense in the north, but rather increase the bet. How does the Council of State assess the recommendations that the Defence obviously got to put down many of the military bases in North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e414	I cannot go into what advice the head of defense has received from those he has asked for advice, and the head of defense is also very clear that there is no thing that is decided. He now receives a number of advice and input from a lot of different actors, which he will do in the process in which he is now involved. He then delivers his advice to me in October, after he has drawn his conclusions. It is also important to stress that no decisions have been made or that there is any basis for saying something about what the head of defence is now going to recommend. Having said that, I've been very open all the time to the fact that the change in defence we're now facing is going to require tough choices and difficult decisions, and we also have to assess what gives the best operational effect and ability. There's going to be a lot of discussions. It should also be in these processes, but we have chosen to give priority to strengthening military presence in the north, among others. by the fact that the frigates now had 42 sailing days in January to March this year, compared with 14 in January to March last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e421	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e424	Let me say that I trust the process that the Minister of Defense has initiated, with an expert group that has given us important advice. Then come professional military advice, and then the Storting will deal with this next year. I hope we can get the most agreement on this matter. In the time we are in now, I would like to stress the need for a great deal of consensus on these questions. My question is about how the Minister of Defence reacted to the budget for the current year. And the thing that came up with strong reactions, it was an extra cut of 100 million. kr. It was called efficiency, but it's a real cut. Now the Minister of Defense has been allowed to receive the reactions to the budget that she herself presented and was adopted in Stortinget just before Christmas. How's this subtraction of 100 million? kr – and above – have been received in the defence sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e431	As the representative is well-known, for all businesses and all departments, an efficiency and red tape requirement has been introduced, which means that we are going to run our businesses more efficiently. It also means that in the defence sector, we have had to bring down the red tape issue, and we have been protecting the resources. This is precisely because it is a red tape and efficiency reform. Then in 2015 we increased the budget by 3.3 pst. in the defence sector. There is an increase in some contrast to what has been the case in the years before, where the average annual increase was 0.21 p.p., with a decrease in four of the years. We're going to continue to increase the defence budgets, but we're also going to continue to streamline. It's important. We're going to spend our money in the most reasonable way possible, and we're going to turn the money more and more towards operational ability. Then I very much agree with Huitfeldt's representative that it is important that when the long-term plan comes to Stortinget, we get an agreed agreement... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e438	The Council of State would rather come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e441	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e446	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e449	First, I would like to say that I think it is very positive that the Minister of Defence has contributed to a more realistic understanding of the current state of defence. It's been necessary, and I'd like to pay tribute for that. Clearly, these are tough choices we are facing. The Chief of Defense has said that a great deal of grip is necessary. It concerns the balance between resources, tasks, level of ambition and operational capacity. Now former speakers were in charge of defence in the north. Here it can quickly become a question of operational capability versus part of the base structure we have today. I do not want to prejudge what is advice and conclusions, but nevertheless I would like to ask: what is the defence minister's ambition and goal for military presence in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e457	That's a good and important question. For the government, presence in the north is important for several reasons. One is that it is a very strategic area for us, and it is also important that we have a normal presence also military, both by our own forces and by allied forces. That's why we practice and train. We have spent extra money in the revised national budget to train all areas of the HV district 17 in Finnmark and also had exercises between the Home Guard and the Army. As I mentioned, we have also increased the presence of frigates in order to have a more continuous presence in the north. We see an increased Russian activity – not as much as for example. in the Baltic Sea region – but we see that the activity is more complex. We see that you fly and have a sea activity that is bigger and different now than before. The important thing for us is to be able to keep up with this activity and know what we have to deal with. A good understanding of the situation is – and will continue to be – very important in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e464	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e467	One thing is the size of the budget, and we look forward to the professional military council. Something else is how we relate to what we already have. I have read with interest the annual report for 2014. In the case of materials, it says: ‘In line with the Ministry of Defence’s guidelines on material management in the defence sector, the defence shall dispose of all superfluous material and associated systems. The disposal also includes spare material, exercise material, spare parts and, in particular, workshop equipment built up to maintain the main material. In 2014 superfluous material has been sold and/or destroyed on an ongoing basis.’ Then my question becomes: is it wise to have such a general disposal in an uncertain situation, where one can also come into a situation where the size of the defense also in terms of the crew may have to vary in periods?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e479	It only disposes of what makes sense to dispose of, that is. what you no longer need. We are in a situation after relatively many years of lag in some areas, where we see challenges in the spare part situation, for example. for the frigates. That is why I have also given the Ministry of Defence a special assignment to look at that situation. This is partly due to the fact that when the frigates were acquired in the early 2000s, a maintenance concept was chosen which meant that spare parts were not purchased immediately, but were to wait and see what the need was. Then it builds itself gradually up a aftermath. Similarly, we also dispose of property, construction and civil engineering. We've now disposed of nearly 2.8 million m2 over a period of time. If we hadn't disposed of it, we would now need two billion more in operating costs in order to operate it. What is important is that we have now put a temporary stop to the disposal, because the head of defence in connection with his professional-military council will look at the whole of the need we have. Then it makes sense to put a stop to now, until we see what the need is.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e491	Snorre Serigstad Options - for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e494	At a time when there is a major social crisis and widespread welfare in a number of NATO countries in Europe, and with the injustice, social unrest and also the risk of instability that it carries over time, it is really a good idea to impose on all NATO countries a target of using 2 psts. of GDP on defence? Does the Minister of Defence himself think that this is the case, for example. Spain and Greece should give priority to the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e499	Nobody's imposing anything in NATO. NATO countries are dependent on consensus to reach their decisions, and this is a decision that is generally based on consensus between Member States. It is precisely from a desire to strengthen the defence capacity after all NATO countries over time, and especially after the Cold War, have built up their defenses. We also see that 21 of 28 NATO countries spent less money on defence in 2014 than in 2008. As NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg recently stated, it is of course a challenge that, as the security challenges increase, budgets and not least investments decline. NATO has a target of 20 pst. The share of investment – it over-fills Norway, and that is important because what we invest today is going to affect defence capabilities in the future – while the average in NATO is 13 p.m. This means that if we are to be able to assume that all countries should also be able to contribute with their burden-sharing perspective, it is important that all countries continue to invest.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e506	We move on to the next main question, from Pál Farstad – it’s not, it’s from Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e509	I had at least prepared for it, because I want to ask the European Minister something. There have been choices in the United Kingdom. This was bad news for the liberals, but it is bad news for Norway too. Daily Express has a front page today that says ‘Cameron declares war on EU’. The free movement of labour has been one of the key elements of the EU. This has now led to debate in many countries. Norway has the EU as its main trading partner. The EEA Agreement has been very important for Norway in terms of both access to the market and access to labour. It has given us access to labour that the Norwegian society had not been able to grow without. Two thirds of the growth in 2014 came from just that type of labour force. Sectors that are important to Norway, such as construction, service production, industry and research, would not have worked if we had not had the free movement of labour. It's part of building our well-being. It would not have been possible to build our schools, our kindergartens and our hospitals if we had not had that access to labour. It's giving billions into the treasury. The sister party to the Right says that they will now use their exclusive power – without having liberals clinging to their feet – to defeat the free movement of the EU. They will extend the opportunities for job-seekers to leave the country after six months, cut off all services related to what is being built up as a worker in a country, have other restrictions on free movement and easier access to expulsions. It may also have a significant impact on Norway if Cameron gets an impact on this in the EU system. What does the government want to do to stop Cameron?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e522	I thank you for the question, which reveals a high level of ambition. That is what we need, and that is what we have in European policy. I would first like to make it clear that although the Conservative Party in the United Kingdom is a sister party to the Right in the international context, they are not, in fact, in the European context and in the European context, because they have resigned from the European People's Party, in which the Right is involved. It is not something we look at gently, because we believe that the United Kingdom is part of close European cooperation, we believe that Europe will be stronger if the United Kingdom is in the EU, and we believe, not least in view of the new security policy situation, that a stronger Europe, as the Americans want to be in NATO, is much more difficult to achieve if the British leave the EU. This is why we have also stressed that the debate on the EU in the United Kingdom should focus on more than – and more important issues than – labour immigration. However, in terms of labour immigration, the representative Skei Grande is quite right that it has served Norway very well. Norway is one of the countries in Europe with the highest share of immigrants from the EEA. Of the EU countries, only Luxembourg has a higher proportion of its labour force that is migrant. It is not least in District Norway that the workers carry jobs and carry the well-being. That's why this is very important to us. It is also the case that the British economy has benefited well from labour immigration. In the future, we will engage in further dialogue with the British and do not hide the fact that, while the British themselves must decide their own future in Europe, according to Norwegian interests, we want the United Kingdom to continue to participate and that the free movement of labour is not undermined.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e533	The United Kingdom election is taking place in a number of choices now taking place in Europe, on a nationalistic wave. And it's not just the Scottish elections, it's also the elections in England. It stands in the line of what is both the outer right and the outer left — flies growing on a nationalistic wave around European countries. Yes, yesterday Cameron also said that he was going to notify the United Kingdom of the EMK because it was no longer important for the United Kingdom to be part of the European human rights system. I want us to have a government that is active in the fight for the values that have created a lot of well-being in Europe, and that we have the movements that are also involved in forming the basis for Norwegian growth. So I want to ask again: will the Council of State do something active to combat the ideas that are coming here, which will have a strong impact on the Norwegian economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e541	I have already been active in relation to the British EU debate by giving a speech that caught some attention over there not long ago, how precisely my message was that Europe now needs to be strong, not least in the new security policy situation. Europe needs economic sustainability and competitiveness, and in both areas British participation will be important. Europe also needs to strengthen itself as a community of values. We look with concern at the signals on British violations of the European Court of Human Rights. It's a paradox that this comes in the year when we celebrate 800 years with Magna Carta, who the British gave us, where the rule of law was so emphatically established. There should be no doubt that this government will stand up for the pan-European values serving Norway and serving Europe, and that we believe that the British also have an important role to play in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e550	It opens up for follow-up questions – first the representative Ola Elvestuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e553	There have been elections in the United Kingdom, but there are also many other countries in Europe where right-wing populist parties are emerging, and there are also far-right parties or movements that are emerging. But there are also some parties that have a head of state. I am thinking of Hungary, with their Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, who said last year that he wanted to build what he called an illiberal democracy, and thought that this was possible within the framework of the European Union. This is most worrying, and my question to the Council of State is: What does Norway do to ensure liberal values within the EU and also to counter this type of trend?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e558	We are very concerned and very concerned about the development of several European countries, where populist, extreme and extreme parties get footholds. We are also concerned because we know that this is a development that is encouraged by forces in Europe and the European Union's immediate surrounding countries that do not want the European Community and the transatlantic community to do well. Then we are also concerned that, at the level of government in an EU country, Hungary is coming to such a clear signal in the illiberal direction. That is why we have clearly opposed the political developments we are seeing in Hungary, and we have clearly seen that the EU should deal with Hungary more critically. The EU has tools for its enhancement that they can put in place against Hungary, and we are still in dialogue with the EU on this, although we note that it is reluctant to take robust action against a Member State.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e565	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e568	We agree on the importance of labour immigration, but when we look at the elections in the United Kingdom, labour immigration has been discussed – and we are in complete disagreement – but there has also been a debate on social security. I have not clearly agreed with the proposals that have been put forward, but there is a discussion in several European countries about this, because you can receive social security benefits at one level, which is adapted to the country in which you work, and then you take it with you to your home country. What is the European Minister's comment on this discussion? And what are Norwegian positions about the discussion here?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e575	This is an important debate, for it is that the free movement of labour is a fundamental EU principle, and many common rules are built around it, while welfare systems remain a national responsibility. However, in terms of benefits earned through work, these two sets of rules, the European and the national, are being met, and a debate on welfare exports is being held in many countries. From the Norwegian side, therefore, the main picture is that we are making a lot of money on labour immigration. We also see the need for a debate on welfare exports in Europe. We believe that some rules should be assessed, and we are now satisfied that the European Commission has launched a consultation process. We have recorded that among the measures that the European Commission has thought might be relevant, cost adjustment is one possible thing to consider. But we want to take that discussion in a European framework and not just in a Norwegian framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e582	Geir S. Tuskedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e585	Both the questioner and the Council of State point to the positive aspects of labour immigration and the free flow provided by the Schengen Agreement. That was the background for the question. I'm going to leave the question of Cameron, but I want to look a little bit at the conditions in Norwegian municipalities around this, the challenge it's given the municipalities with school, health, black work, kindergarten, language problems, social dumping, work permits, etc. It has given us some challenges. And to go straight to the question: is there coordination and evaluation of these challenges taking place in the EU and Norway participating there with its experience?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e592	Very well known, there is no evaluation of the experience at municipal level in dealing with these issues, but there is now a discussion on the relationship between free movement and welfare services and the export of welfare services. The picture in Norway is – it is correct – that municipalities have had challenges, and that there have been very large changes in many municipalities in a very short time. In small municipalities, maybe 10-15 pst. Today’s citizens from EU countries, while ten years ago barely had any. It is then clear that challenges arise in terms of language, school, health, etc. But the main picture is that the municipalities have managed this very well, and that the influx of migrant workers is seen in the municipalities as a huge resource that contributes very positively to maintaining population and maintaining competitiveness in local business.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e597	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e601	In the debate on liberal dishes in Europe, Spain appears to be a sad example. The right-hand party Partido Popular has used its plurality to adopt a law that will allow demonstrators to be fined with about five million from 1 July onwards. kr. Nauda and the protests in Spain’s streets come largely from the EU’s misguided policy, its misguided project. The market liberal project puts workers in competition with each other across Europe, a competition in which the strongest market forces win, and most people lose. The experiment with a common monetary policy directed from Frankfurt without a common financial policy is doomed to fail, and Spanish youth feels this on the body. They're as likely to win in heads and coins as they are to get a gainful job. That's why the Spanish people demonstrate. When should the right-hand side see that a project that gives weighty purchasing power, greater inequalities and increased unemployment weakens the basis of liberal democracy as a speaker so warmly in festive speeches?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e610	This government has not concealed it, nor have I concealed in explanations and other contexts that the economic crisis is not just an economic crisis – it is a social crisis and, in many countries, a political crisis. That is why it is not a proper premise that we ignore these contexts, but it is precisely because we have to fight against the loss of generations of young people – not just in the labour market but the loss of life – that we have to ensure that Europe regains economic growth. Here Spain is one of the best examples at the moment. They've gone through a real horse cure. It has had major consequences, but it is not the person who created unemployment and who created the social problems in the first place. It was a faulty economic policy. Now Spain is one of the countries in the euro zone that is growing most and which we see more hopefully than a number of other countries, which have not had the same necessary reform measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e615	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e618	The United Kingdom is probably one of those countries that cannot point to a particularly successful cut policy. Differences are increasing, and social unrest is also increasing. But it is not just on the team that the UK population is under pressure. The re-elected Prime Minister, Cameron, has also repeatedly threatened to withdraw Britain from its obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights. It will, in addition to removing the right of British citizens to try out their cases in the European Court of Human Rights, strengthen the legitimacy of the extreme parties, such as the Hungarian Government, Putin's regime in Russia, Azerbaijan and other countries that oppose compliance with the requirements of genuine legal certainty and respect for human rights. There was no shortage of jubilee from the right side of Norway when Cameron won in the United Kingdom. But what will the Right in Government do to prevent the United Kingdom from running the illiberal right-hand side of Europe's affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e625	We attach great importance to the active participation of the United Kingdom in European cooperation, as a European major act, and have a crucial role to play in ensuring both economic, security and value-added communities in Europe and in the transatlantic region. That is why we are concerned about the prospects of a British withdrawal from the EU, but we are also concerned about the prospects of a British withdrawal of the EMC and a decoupling from the European Court of Human Rights. It's a concern we share with the representative Serigstad Valen, who we're going to discuss in bilateral meetings with the British authorities. It is quite right that the representative Serigstad Valen implies, countries that have a proud and strong leadership tradition in respect of human rights, have a special responsibility not to contribute to sending wrong signals, not least in a situation where human rights are under pressure in EU countries, and where countries around the EU are speculating in and supporting illiberal flows in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e630	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e633	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. In a short time, Norwegian soldiers are being sent to Iraq, and the Council of State has previously stated that the young men and women we send down are Norway’s contribution to the fight against violent Islamic extremism. The production of this Norwegian war contribution both from the government and from all parties on the Stortinget, with the exception of the SV and the Center Party, has been strikingly unproblematic – Norway is engaged in the fight against ISIL on the part of the good forces. It's, with respect to reporting, a naive representation of the reality of the war we're now about to engage in. Today there are over 50 different Shia militias in Syria and Iraq, all claiming to fight ISIL. Several of these groups operate together with the Iraqi military, or the army, and the militia, and they flow into each other. Amnesty, Human Rights Watch and others have documented in several reports systematic, cruel human rights violations from both the militias and the army we are to train – extrajudicial executions, mass executions and systematic burning down of Sunni Muslims' property in areas where ISIL is defeated. At all, it reminds us quite a bit of ISIL, and it undoubtedly undermines the fight against ISIL. Norway is about to enter a very inconceivable war in which our allies seem to be behind gross human rights violations and abuses. We know little about what our participation will lead to. In the past, the Minister of Defence has stated that this kind of picture of the situation is important when the Norwegian soldiers are in place. Does the government think that we now have a good enough knowledge of who our forces are going to train in Iraq, and what kind of relationship these forces have with the brutal militias?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e644	I'll first go into two of the premises in the question. One is that this is Norwegian war contribution. It's not. We send instructors to train Iraqi personnel and the peshmerga. We don't send soldiers to participate in the field, like we do. have done so in Afghanistan, including while SV was in government. Then I also want to attack the premise that this has been communicated as a ‘significantly unproblematic’. Rather, on the contrary, we have always been clear about the problematic and challenging aspects of participation, while our assessment has been – and it is then supported by a majority in the Stortinget, along with two parties, on which the Light Hill is based – that it has a cost and a consequence not also of helping to build up Iraqi security forces so that they can take responsibility for security in their own country and region. I have also consulted and informed Stortinget regularly, and it has also been done by the Prime Minister through his statement, both on how we assess the situation, and not least on two essential issues: one is that the security of our personnel is going to be crucial. The second is that the situation is complex, unpredictable and unpredictable. Once we start deployment, we'll get a better overview of the player image, and also of how our contribution will work in the context with our allies. Among other things, we need to: operate with Germany in Erbil, where we are to train the peshmerga. We also have close contact with both this alliance of countries and our closest allies with whom we are going to operate, in order to be able to address questions related to who we are training and learning, and the control mechanisms around it. The second thing we're in close contact with is the reports of abuse. Assault is equally unacceptable no matter who commits them. It has also been clearly communicated by the government, and at the same time we have said that if the assumptions for our contribution change, we will also have to change the device – or possibly cancel our contribution if we cannot operate under the conditions we have set.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e655	It is true that the government has consulted and informed Stortinget, and we appreciate that. At the same time, it is also true that there has been a strikingly small debate on this issue, both in the United Kingdom and in the general public, including the United Kingdom. because there has been such a broad consensus on this. That's why we're taking this up again now, because there's been a lot of new knowledge since so many parties joined this military contribution. We are in a different situation, where it is clearer and clearer that we are becoming a party to a civil war where there are perpetrators on both sides – a much more complicated situation than the impression that you have received in Norwegian public earlier. We believe that the reports we have now received on the way in which the maritime forces proceed, on the basis of the links between them and the Iraqi government – and not least the Iranian government – provide a basis for reconsidering the decision. My question is therefore: why does the government believe that this new information does not provide the basis for a reassessment of this decision now?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e662	As I explained in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on 4 May, we believe that the resolution is still correct. However, I also stated that once we have gradually begun deployment and see what the situation is like – this is not unique to Norway, this applies to all other countries participating – there may be changes to the facility of our contribution, and we also need to assess whether we can carry out the mission that we have foreseen and planned. It is also important to stress that an important contribution to making Iraqi authorities less dependent on the Shia militia is to train Iraqi security forces and train the peshmerga. We also made the assumption for our contribution when we went in, that this was an operation that also had broad support in the region. It has been given; a total of 63 countries are now participating in the coalition with different contributions. This is a military contribution that goes into a whole. We also conduct significant humanitarian and political activities and stop cash flows to and from terrorist organisations, as other important contributions to the whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e669	There will be follow-up questions – first Snorre Serigstad Valen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e673	New Time published several more videos last week, including: may see details of executions by State-supported Shia militias associated with the Iraqi Government Army or Iran. Unidentified young men are beaten, tortured and shot in videos filmed and published by soldiers either in the government forces or in connection with the government forces. Like ISIL, this group that uses social media is active, and soldiers also use social media profiles to show that they switch between the government army uniform and the militia groups. How will the Minister of Defense ensure that Norway does not train militiamen within the government army who have actively promoted war crimes or are on terrorist lists in the West? If the Minister of Defence cannot ensure this, is there not good enough reason in itself to reconsider the contribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e678	I think it is important to remember what was the starting point for our and other countries' contributions to Iraq. It was a prayer from the Iraqi authorities to contribute to the training of Iraqi security forces in order to combat the threat posed by ISIL not only in Iraq but throughout the region, and also towards the West. Not doing anything also has a risk that we've considered to be big. So the question of training and exercise. As I said, we are going to operate with close allies with whom we have good experience from Afghanistan in operating in similar types of operations – training and training. We're going to have mechanisms in place with our allies, among other things. to run a background check on those who are to be trained and trained. It is also the case that Iraqi authorities designate those to participate in the training centres. Then we will also – in a very common way – focus on training in the international rights of war for the people we teach. We've been doing that in Afghanistan every year, we're doing that in similar capacity building contributions, and it's going to be important here too.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e687	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e690	I would like to stress that the Labour Party supports this contribution. There is broad support in Stortinget that these soldiers are now being sent out, but I must admit that the situation is more complex than when the decision was taken before Christmas. I probably don't agree with Serigstad Valen, who says that you have to be sure that you don't do anything wrong, and that you almost have to have an insurance about it. That's a very difficult situation. We can never get any assurance that there will be no faults. My question is whether what many have been concerned about, that the Shiamilits fight side by side with Iraqi government forces. The former American general, who has worked in the CIA, Petraeus, has said that the Shia militia is a greater threat to the future of Iraq than ISIL. They're pretty strong words and say a little bit about how this Shia militia is assessed. What are the Minister of Defence's comments on this analysis?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e697	There is no doubt that militias, whatever their relationship, represent a major challenge in the region, precisely because they are not under the direct control of any country. The Shia militia has clear links with Iran, and they are also clear and clear in this context, that is. they carry out a number of tasks which appear to be on behalf of Iraqi authorities. Our point has been that, in order to make Iraq less dependent on this Shia militia and other groupings – which many people have, there are many groupings, in an unwieldy image – we believe that the training of the legitimate Iraqi security forces is very important, and also of the peshmerga. That means that our contribution is going to be oriented towards it. It is going to be – as I have also said in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence – a rather ongoing assessment of whether we can carry out the mission we have undertaken in a good way. If we can't do that, we have to reconsider the device of the assignment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e704	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e707	More than the Centre Party and SV are asking critical questions about the Iraq contribution. Among other things, senior advisors at the International Law and Policy Institute, Cecilie Hellestveit, confirmed to NTB that it is very clear what the Norwegian instructors are going to do in Arbil, while it has been unclear from the very beginning what they might do in Baghdad. The answer from Colonel Ivar Moen at the Defence Operational Headquarters was that we don't want to communicate so much around. He doesn't want to say how many special soldiers are going to Baghdad, or what they get. It is absolutely necessary for us to know what we will achieve, and of course what the forces will do in Iraq. We know that the United States has spent more than ten years and extremely large resources and has lost too many lives without one being closed. Can the State Council clarify what the Norwegian forces should contribute, both in Arbil and Baghdad, and what makes it certain that we will be closed where others have failed before?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e714	First of all, this is a completely different assignment. It is the Iraqi authorities who are asking the international community to help train and train their security forces in order to deal with a terrorist threat both in Iraq and in the region as a whole – and, as I said, which also has ramifications to Western countries. It is clearly communicated from our point of view that what our forces are going to do is capacity building. We're not going to fight the way we've been in the early phase of Afghanistan. At the same time, we have been very clear that the training will normally include training in, for example: the international law of the war and the treatment of civil and other elements, which are always included in the capacity building process. This is the same for most other countries with which we operate this form of capacity building. With regard to our mission in Baghdad – and to the extent also in Erbil – it is clear that this is a new operation under design. That means that much of what to do in the first phase is to identify what needs are, and how we can best solve them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e723	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e726	We also support the mission from the Left. It is necessary to build up a capacity that can combat ISIL – and contribute to it. At the same time, there is an assault on all sides. Then my question about what does the Minister of Defense think: how will we work with our allies to build a respect for the international right of war, and also build up under human rights in Iraq? And do we have the patience needed for how long this is going to take?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e731	It is especially important to work along two fronts, as we consider it. One is close cooperation with our allies on how we operate capacity building – i.e. the training programmes and how we do it. As I said, we have quite a lot of experience with many of those we are now going to operate closely with, because we have done the same in Afghanistan and, to some extent, other countries in the past, and still do so. It forms a lot of the basis for how we're going to work. Then we also have to follow another path, and that's the more political track. One of the basic prerequisites for our participation was that we set up a uniting government, a collecting government in Baghdad. Working politically against Iraqi authorities to actually get into a pooling structure is going to be very important, because if you continue to divide, it may also go beyond the ability to carry out the mission we've undertaken together with other allies to do. That's why we think working along the political trail is also going to be important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e739	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e742	The Green Party has supported the decision to contribute Norwegian inspectors in the international fight against ISIL – not because we are imagining for a moment that it is an easy decision that will ensure that we are not involved in very complicated and unfortunate actions, but because we believe that we are imposing even more responsibility by not participating. Then the Greens fully agree with all the speakers who have spoken that we have a very inconspicuous situation. I have registered that the Minister of Defence has said that this will be assessed on an ongoing basis. Can the Minister of Defence specify which criteria will be given particular attention in order to assess whether the Norwegian contribution will continue and make a progress plan, including how the Storting will be involved in this assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e749	To take the last one first: both the Foreign Minister and I focus on having a regular update of the Storting when new things happen, and we will continue to do that, because we believe it is important that we inform as much as possible about the picture we see, what developments we see, and what the consequences might have for our contribution and the arrangements for our contribution. We have initially made a decision to make the contribution available for up to one year, with the possibility of extension. That means that until that year is over, and to the extent that before, we have to make this assessment of whether we can say that the mission is handled in a good way. In particular, there are some criteria that will be important. One is, as I mentioned at the outset, the safety of our soldiers. It's going to be crucial. If they are not able to operate under acceptable, safe conditions, it is also not relevant for Norway to operate. It will always have the highest priority when we participate in international operations.The second is the question of whether we can put in place schemes and training systems that allow us to conduct training in a good way. The third is the development of politics, that we see a collective government that helps to make the mission possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e756	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e759	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. This is Norway’s largest export industry after direct sales of oil and gas: it is the supplier industry. The supply industry is currently struggling as a result of the investment cut of the oil companies and the company's cut in maintenance, inter alia. Many people lose their jobs; there have been 15 000 job losses last year. This does not give the large results of unemployment statistics yet, it is said, because this is very much about many hired, foreign workers who travel home without a continuing contract, and many are still going on final packages. It's the worst thing in the West. It is now said that the labour market is also becoming saturated and is no longer able to take away workers coming from the supplier industry. The number of traineeships will increase. We are now over 4 pst., for the first time since 2005, and there are even tougher times to announce. Norwegian Industry said at a hearing held yesterday by the Energy and Environment Committee on the development of Sverdrup, that it looks dark, it looks ugly in the future. From the Hordaland Oil and Gas organisation – in my and the Council of State – it is said that businesses expect the government to focus on the situation. We see those who today fear the future wondering, what will happen in the time to come? What will the government do? RNB did not provide any measures. What is it the Minister of Industry has to offer to those who today fear for their future and work in this industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e770	It is quite right that the situation is serious, and that many have lost their jobs, and that some communities, especially in the West, are now affected. This is mainly due to the fact that you have not managed to reach out with your bids for the calls that have been made. And you see cost cuts, with them following that sheep. Now we know that this is also going to change, because we're still facing big investments. They're going to be lower than what we've experienced in the years we have behind us, but we're going to make big investments in the oil and gas sector. So we know that this industry has to change, and we know that many of those who have lost their jobs have got a new job. They are absorbed by other parts of the business, which have had problems attracting labour because very much has been picked up by the oil and gas industry. Yesterday the revised national budget was submitted. Two concrete measures which the industry wanted to take will be implemented, namely changes in the rules of leave and several packages of measures. But the most important thing we can do is to facilitate a transformation of business, and we do that when we reduce costs, when we facilitate knowledge and competence. This industry has a lot of competence, which we are going to use – still – in the oil and gas industries, but which we are also going to use in other parts of the business. So this isn't a quick fix, this is something we have to go through. It's very demanding, and we're following this situation closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e779	There's a lot of talk about conversion from the Minister of Industry, but as long as tax cuts are the most powerful tool the government can use, I'd rather call it redistribution. Once we have proposed concrete measures for conversion in both the supplier industry and industry in general – as we did in the proposal to strengthen Enova and to identify and exploit the expertise of the supplier industry in other industries – we will not get the government or its support parties in the Stortinget to do so. Yesterday, at the hearing mentioned earlier, Norwegian Industry said that the growth of the supplier industry was seriously underestimated. Now underestimating the downfall. Is it really the case that we cannot expect any special measures from the government towards Norway's largest industrial industry, which will have assignments in the future, but which are now going to wear off for some years?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e786	As I said, yesterday there were two measures that industry is asking for. Then I just have to remind the representative that the industry, the NHO, what all parts of the business are asking for, is cut in taxes and taxes. So does this government. Although the representative disagrees with this policy, it is one of the very clear messages we are given, which we have followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e793	It opens for one follow-up question – from Else-May Botten.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e796	It is good to remind the Council of State that there is a difficult situation out there, and I also know that the Council of State is very aware of that. But in DN today, the oil engineer Tale Meling goes out and says it's a very demanding situation to be an oil engineer, to be cancelled – and what opportunities do you have? Erna stood here in the questionnaire and said that it is good that engineers change pastures, but when the oil engineers say that it is difficult to replace pasture, I think we have to take it seriously. What kind of bridge of competence can you build in view of the situation they are in? We experience that seafarers are put on land, the yards do not have new contractors, shipowners outsource ships and flags, and the supplier industry also needs both maintenance and modifications that deliver assignments, but also competence measures and rolling permitting legislation. What is the Council of State going to do? Is the master plan simply to continue to wait and see and, as the council said instead, follow the situation closely? And in that case, how long do you have to wait before actually doing the grip?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e803	I can repeat: the most important thing we do when we facilitate conversion is to make sure that business evolves. There is a clear layer of splinter so that all parts of the business can develop new products and services and improve the work they do. It's spending more time on value creation. We do that when we cut taxes and taxes, and we do that when we have a historical commitment to industrial innovation. This is not the result of tomorrow, but you'll see it in the longer term, and that's why it's important and right to do it. Then there were measures in the revised yesterday. We will also follow the situation carefully, but unlike the Workers' Party, we do not believe that this is something to be repaired overnight; we have to go through this. And we – the representative knows that – also have to put forward a maritime strategy, which should not least facilitate the continuation of maritime activities. We're world leaders in this area, and we're going to make sure that we're still going to be. But going through a transition, creating new jobs, it's important that we go through.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e811	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e823	There will be a change in the set question list, and the President will show in this context the electronic question list. The proposed amendment to today’s Question Time is proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 1, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e836	This question, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister for Culture, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e839	‘The Ministry of Culture has recently distributed over $1 billion of its funds for investment in sports facilities in the municipalities. Of these, Oslo has only received $35 million, which is the second smallest in the country, while for example. Akershus, Hordaland and Rogaland have had almost three times as much. The Sports Communication highlighted that there is a significant under-coverage of important sports facilities in the capital, and that this will be an important challenge in the future. How will the Council explain that Oslo is awarded such a small proportion of the games?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e846	In accordance with the regulations of the Money Gambling Act on the distribution of Norwegian Tipping's profits for sport purposes, the King allocates the sport's share each year by main items, while the Ministry of Culture distributes the individual items within the framework. This government has completed the phase-in of new key share, so at this year's main distribution of games for sporting purposes, it goes for the first time in the history of 1 billion. kr to sports facilities in the municipalities. The framework of each State is influenced by the volume of application, population and plant coverage. In this way, the funds are allocated as necessary, at the same time as access to sports facilities throughout the country is balanced. The sports facilities premium scheme is application-based and shall finance the construction and rehabilitation of facilities for sport and physical activity. Oslo has applied for substantially less than the other counties this year and has therefore seen relatively low allocations. At the same time, the balancing mechanism operates in such a way that Oslo’s high population and low plant coverage provide Oslo with the most widely agreed share in the country. So Oslo gets a lot more dollars compared to the application amount than the other counties. If the application volume in Oslo increases, the allocation will also increase. Furthermore, I would like to stress that this government has ensured that Oslo, together with 18 other municipalities, will be included in a press area campaign from this year’s application round, giving rights to 15 p.m. more in games for sports facilities. I would also like to add that this year the government has made a significant contribution to lowering the threshold for more people to participate in sport, through a large increase in local resources, local outdoor measures for children and young people and inclusion measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e863	I thank the Council of State for an informative answer. According to the sports report that was dealt with in Stortinget at the end of the previous period, the undercoverage in Oslo is quite dramatic. It's almost five times less coverage of swimming pools than the national average, and it's only half the average in sports halls. Because of this, former governments have taken special action, such as granting exceptional tipping for nine multi-use halls as early as 2006. Unfortunately, the funds from that time have still not been used up, and in 2009 15 million were allocated. kr to a multipurpose hall up on Grorud, after a new model. I know that the Minister of Culture is not here today, but I would like the Council of State to take along two questions. One thing is, will this money stay standing, so won't it be withdrawn? At the same time, we must press Oslo to advance the projects. The second is, will the government do the same direct action in the future to get more progress?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e870	The allocation of funds shall be subject to established criteria and shall be assigned on application. Oslo has significant existing funds in the scheme, which will cover the remaining amount of the application, so Oslo will therefore have sufficient funds available at the end of the year for the full acceptance of the applications. That's what I saw as the first question, the second question I didn't quite get with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e875	No, it was whether the government would assess the corresponding direct action forward as it was done by previous governments to get more speed on certain points, such as multi-use halls, which I mentioned that it was made of its own extra tipping agents. It is in the Council of State's description of the situation that for many years there has been too little investment in Oslo in the construction of sports facilities. For example, in 2014, there were 31.7 million. kr of the drugs, i.e. an equal share to this year, so it's not a new phenomenon that this repeats. The problem is that in those municipalities where there are either too tight budgets or there is too little willingness to invest in sports facilities, there is an increasing decline, because the payments depend on what you start up yourself. Can the government envisage further regulatory changes in order to ensure that there will be money where it is most needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e882	What the government has provided is now also to define 19 municipalities as press areas, and then it is natural that Oslo is one of the 19 municipalities, where the state contributes 15 pst. more in games for applications for sports facilities, due to: last year population growth and expected population growth also in the future. This also includes installation coverage. However, the construction of sports facilities is local initiatives that are made as necessary and available resources, where the state contributes through the gambling system to the top funding of sports facilities. As I said in my first answer, we have now passed 1 billion. kr for payment in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e893	«All Norwegian predators are threatened by extinction, according to the Norwegian roost list 2010. Bear, gaupe and wolf are below the stock target of Stortinget. In the case of bear, the number of juveniles must be doubled in order to reach the stock target. At the same time, the population of bears grows slowly. What would the State Council do to achieve the bear's objective?'
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e900	In the 2011 rapprochement, an overall increase continued the current stock targets for gloat, yew and wolf, while the stock target for bear was reduced from 15 to 13 juveniles. In view of the two-part objective of caring for both predators and grazing animals, the stock targets for large predators are low in Norway. Furthermore, the size has decided that stocks should be managed as close as possible to the stock targets. Managing game populations as accurately as possible is very demanding. The bear population is according to the latest stock status from Rovdata of 6.4 juveniles. The stock is thus half the size of the stock. The number of juveniles born of bear has remained virtually unchanged since the incubation game agreement in 2011. The biology of the bear causes the prevalence and number of female bears to increase very slowly. This is due to the fact that most young people establish their home areas in part within their mothers’ home areas. The prevalence and number of male bears are further influenced by increased hunting for bears in Sweden. Hunting in border areas against Norway can both result in female bears living on both sides of the border being shot in Sweden and may reduce the migration of female bears from Sweden to Norway. An important measure is and will continue to be to protect female bears from killing as far as possible. That way, we'll facilitate growth in the population. This means that the felling of bears mainly includes male bears in areas that are priority areas for grazing. For example, this spring, there are two male bears shot in the municipality of Grane in Northern Ireland by the State's natural supervision. I have good faith that with this approach we will achieve the goal of 13 young children of bears. However, it will take time to achieve the objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e917	I thank you for your answer. I fully agree that completely avoiding hunting on the inside, that inside is being taken out, is the most important tool, and is being taken out, is what is doing the most damage. Actually, I want to ask you two things in that context. First, the Council of State itself was involved in the increased Swedish bear hunt, and the first question is whether the Council of State has taken an initiative towards Swedish authorities in view of joint measures to increase the population of bears. The second is an interview her State Secretary gave to Trunder-Avisa on Monday. It must be understood that the extraction of bear in areas where traces of pups are present may be carried out. In the looting game agreement, the interiors have been specially protected. Therefore, I would like to ask: is it the current policy to cause harm in an area where a child is at risk of shooting?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e926	We have close contact with Sweden. We have it in the case of wolves, and we also have it in the case of bears, where we want to see if it's possible to have a joint effort to label bears. It is important that we manage this together. As far as the second question is concerned, we know that the management of predatory game in domestic calving areas is among the points in the 2011 Robbery Agreement that have been much discussed. That is why I sent a letter on 12 March this year to all the intruders with an explanation of how this point of the intrusion agreement will be followed up in practical management. It was that letter that was the background to my Secretary of State's statements to the Tronder-Avisa this week. That letter makes it clear that clear zone management is to be carried out with clear differentiation of administrative practices between priority grazing areas and priority predatory areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e938	I did not get any answers to any of the two questions, whether there are current policies and whether the Council of State has made contact with Sweden with a view to bringing out more bears. So I ask for clear answers to that. I take the chance that wolf – even if the question is about bear – is within the framework of the question, as we have a common settlement in the Stortinget that deals with both. It is worrying that we have few wolves and that few young people have been found so far this year. Now the new Swedish climate and environment minister has asked the Swedish Naturvärdsverket to figure out how many wolves there must be in Sweden in order for the population to be viable. Since the government will come up with a new stock target in 2015, it might be interesting to be right about the Minister for Climate and Environment thinking about asking our Environment Directorate for a professional recommendation on how many wolves we should have in Norway to have a viable population.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e945	What I said about interaction with Sweden is that we want to have a joint project with the labelling of bears. That's what we now have with Sweden. So the representative Solhjell knows that we're going to get back to Stortinget with both the wolf zone and the wolf stock target. There we also get good stock reports from Rovdata, and we use the Environment Directorate to get their knowledge into the matter. Several of the issues raised here, we know that we are coming back to, but it is demanding to manage the predatory game settlement and balance between taking account of predators and grazing animals. The size has decided the stock targets, and that's what we're working for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e956	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Since 1997, the National Centre for Foetal Medicine, NSFM, has provided Norway with the only further training in ultrasound diagnostics for midwives. This is done by the Ministry of Health and Welfare providing Health Mid-Norway at St. Olav's Hospital with the educational assignment, and that NSFM is continuing through continuous contracts with NTNU at the medical faculty to complete the 1-year training. This gives the education a project status. Does the Council agree that responsibility for education should be transferred from the Ministry of Health and Welfare to the Ministry of Knowledge, and instead be part of the basis and mission to the NTNU?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e965	The current continuing training in ultrasound diagnostics for midwives is important to ensure that we have the necessary competences in ultrasound among midwives in Norway. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has therefore entrusted Health Mid-Norway with the task of continuing and financing this particular training. It is unusual for further education to be funded in this way. They are usually financed from the Ministry of Knowledge's budget. In the light of their framework appropriations, educational institutions shall assess the training to be provided and how to organise it. I can therefore understand that the representative asks the question. As I see it, there is an indication in the question that there could be an improvement if the responsibility for funding is transferred to the Ministry of Knowledge. However, the representative does not take this into account. I think the most important thing is to ensure that this continuing training is simply continued, so that the service has access to this competence. When Health Mid-Norway is responsible for funding, they can adapt the training to the actual needs of the service. If further training were to be funded by the Ministry of Knowledge, the funding would be included in the institution’s framework allocation. In this case, the university would be responsible for determining the dimensioning of study places, the content of education and, ultimately, whether education is to be offered. Further training would then be considered as part of the overall training provision of NTNU, in line with the institution's other training courses. I find it difficult to see that if responsibility is transferred to the Ministry of Knowledge, there will be immediate benefits to the training in question. I then assume that Health Mid-Norway will also continue to be responsible for continuing this training.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e980	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Change in Ministry of Ownership is the desire of the educational environment itself. It is so much wanted by St. Olav's Hospital, and it is wanted by NTNU. These are strong local desires. Since the establishment of the training offer in 1997, a pilot project has been considered to be under contract. The contracts between St. Olavs and NTNU were renegotiated in 2003, 2007, 2009 and 2014. Does not the Council of State at least agree that 20 years of renegotiated contracts are more than enough to define this as a permanent training offer, which should actually enter the NTNU portfolio, also in the light of the desire for good public maternity care?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e989	I absolutely share the representative's view that this is a desired education, which is needed in healthcare. And there is a need that is in the incalculable future. But I'm not sure if it will strengthen and ensure education to move funding from a scheme, where we have a system with a clear mission document, and where Health Mid-Norway has a responsibility to fund this education and move on to the fact that this money is transferred into a framework-funded system, where it will be up to the educational institutions themselves to assess whether this is an education that they want to provide – and the scope of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e994	I believe that NTNU will regard this as a very important field of education. We're going to have a good and competent maternity care in Norway. Today we offer ultrasonic testing from the 18th week. An increasing number of pregnant women also choose to perform a pre-term study. It is then important that the competence of investigators is good. It provides this education. No later than two days ago, the possibility of creating a master’s degree offer for midwives taking this ultrasound training was discussed. Does the Council of State support such quality development of education and, as the responsible Council of State, is he willing to contribute financially to making this training a master's offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1003	This further training for midwives is a mission for Health Mid-Norway, which we also finance through the allocation to Health Mid-Norway. With regard to the establishment of master's programmes, universities are free to assess for themselves. It is also subject to a department other than the Ministry of Health and Welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1014	‘ALS is a very serious disease. There's little research on this disease. There are not so many people affected in numerical terms, and relatively young people are also affected. It might look like mortality is rising. Diagnosis, treatment and care challenges are major. In order to provide them with the best treatment and care, knowledge and research are necessary. Will the Council of State take the initiative to initiate clinical research into this disease in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1021	ALS is a very serious disease, and a lot of municipalities and specialist health services are required to provide those affected, with a good supply of treatment, care and care. The services provided to ALS patients shall be based on research-based knowledge. It is therefore important that up-to-date knowledge is disseminated and recovered in the service, through national guidelines and the home respiratory care competence service. But as the representative Henriksen points out, we lack knowledge of why the disease occurs, how it develops and whether it is hereditary. The Ministry finances research through the regional health enterprises and through the Norwegian Research Councils. The Research Council has not received applications for ALS funding since 2000, and there are currently no such projects. With regard to research at ALS in health companies, I am aware that some research has been carried out in recent years, and that interesting projects are under way at Haukeland University Hospitals and at Aarhus – both clinically and in epidemiology and genetics. The government is also working to facilitate more clinical studies and to provide more patients with access to trial treatment. This will open up several clinical studies on ALS. The need for knowledge in this area is not limited to Norway. Participation in international research cooperation is therefore important. In this way, Norway can both contribute to and exploit the knowledge production carried out in the health and care sectors. Norway has participated in the pan-European research programme on Alzheimer’s and neurodegenerative diseases — JPND — which also includes ALS. Within the programme, two major research projects are under way on the ALS. In spring 2014, the government presented a strategy to increase Norwegian participation in Horizon 2020, including in the field of health. International research in progress and the knowledge gained from such research will also benefit Norwegian ALS patients. As the representative points out, there is little research on ALS in Norway, but there is something, in addition to what is happening internationally. However, there are many sources of funding, both nationally and internationally, that provide opportunities to apply for funds for ALS research. I therefore hope that Norwegian research communities will use this opportunity to apply for research funding in areas where there is a need for increased knowledge, such as ALS.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1034	There was a lot of interesting and a lot of positive in the Council's answer. Erna Solberg opened yesterday a diagnostic center for muscle and fatigue conditions, and she said that patients have met a lack of respect simply because they have lacked knowledge. The ALS support group has been very active in putting more research on the agenda, and it is true, as the Council of State says, that some research is going on. However, given the involvement of the ALS support group and the high level of ALS disease experience, there is a lack of knowledge about both diagnosis, follow-up and care to be provided when long-term measures are needed – as many in this group need. As the Council of State said, it is also going on in Norway. Will the Council of State make it possible to implement these initiatives initiated in hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1043	As I was concerned, a number of research projects are already being carried out both at Haukeland University Hospital, at Aarhus in cooperation with Umeå University, and at Aarhus in cooperation with Oslo University Hospital. We have also made, and are also in the process of implementing, a number of changes – improvements – to strengthen clinical research and contribute to greater participation in Horizon 2020. But research on the ALS also needs to be seen from an international perspective, and it is important that the research we are involved in funding from the Norwegian side also represents an international standard and quality. Researchers in these areas also need to qualify for the money spent on this area, as this is the way Norway has the opportunity to contribute to the international interaction needed to solve these mysteries.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1048	What I'm asking is whether the Council of State will take initiatives in such a way that the environments that are currently interested in research will be able to do so economically. We know that the hospital budgets are quite tight, we know that there has been a weak hospital budget in 2015, and we also know that the forced distribution of funds that the government has carried out with free hospital choice will also affect the clinical research carried out within healthcare companies. My question is: can the Council of State promise that there will be funds for clinical research on ALS out in health companies and, at least, in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1055	What we know is that the hospital budget for 2015 is a budget that adds up to significant growth, and that this government has committed itself to giving money to a higher growth in our two state budgets than the previous government has been able to achieve over eight years. What we also know is that we have a considerable amount of work to do for more clinical research in hospitals. We also know that hospitals give higher priority to research than before. What we also know is that this government has taken the initiative to improve the ability of Norwegian researchers to get a greater say in the funds available in Horizon 2020. Here's a great opportunity, but what's a prerequisite for getting money is that one also has research projects that have the quality that make one actually contribute to the international interaction that research on these kinds of medical issues will always be part of. Norway can't solve this alone, we have to be part of a larger whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1066	‘The county doctor has shown that the Hospital Telemark HF has committed a criminal offence with regard to the safety of the hospital in Rjukan. Monitoring points to a lack of vulnerability and risk assessments before the changeover, which was well known to the Council of State. The fact that the caretaker’s supervisory report comes after the changes is like asking for forgiveness for something that should not have been allowed. What will the Council of States do to ensure effective supervision and prevent similar irresponsible decommissioning processes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1073	The conversion at Rjukan Hospital has been demanding. The Hospital Telemark has always been concerned that the conversion should be carried out in a safe and sound manner. The hospital has stated that they have carried out ROS analyses of the elements of the development plan, that a new plan was drawn up for prehospital services, and that a ROS analysis was developed for the upper Telemark section, which also includes Rjukan hospitals. According to the Telemark Hospital, one in six months has evaluated patient coverage and available staff at Rjukan at least once a week. They have assessed the professional safety of the receipt of emergency patients and the follow-up of the patients involved. This has resulted in the transmission of the emergency reception function to the Notodden for a period of time. The Authority concluded in its oversight that deviations were found that there was no adequate risk and vulnerability assessment for the migration. It is also noted that the Hospital Telemark has not followed up assessments of the need for risk mitigation measures during the transition and that there has been a lack of use of deviation systems in the process. Of course, this is unfortunate. Despite the fact that the County has detected deviations in the risk and vulnerability assessment related to conversion, the County of County has concluded that this has not affected patient treatment safety. I'm glad. The supervision was carried out during a demanding period of heavy stress on employees. The management, in consultation with the main protection officer and the Labour Inspectorate concluded that it was no longer appropriate to maintain the operation of the emergency reception unit on Rjukan. Therefore, this function was moved to Notodden from 16 March 2015 on the same day as the assessment was made. Unannounced supervision took place on the same day. The County commented that much of what appeared under supervision was related to work environment conditions, which are not part of the County Government's jurisdiction. Health undertakings are responsible for the proper conduct of conversion processes and are responsible for their supervision. I believe that this is a proper division of labour. The Hospital Telemark must respond to the State's response to how they perform internal control, quality assurance and risk analysis during the further operation of the Rjukan. I find that the conclusions of the State show that there is no correlation between my expectations of what should be done by risk assessments and their follow-up and what has been done in this process. In parallel with the response of Fylkesmannen, the Hospital Telemark, I would like to ask Health South-East to explain how they have followed up on the fact that ROS analyses were to be carried out prior to the conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1090	The Council of State states that the offences committed by the entity’s side are ‘unlucky’. I think they're serious, and my question is what the Council of State will do to prevent similar irresponsible decommissioning or conversion processes from happening in other companies. I would like a more detailed answer to that question. I've also asked what the government will do to ensure more real supervision. I asked a written question in March about what the Council of State would do to ensure a defensive conversion, and I did not get an answer to it. What will the Council of State do to ensure effective supervision — not supervision after hospital closure?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1097	The representative Toppe has received an answer from me to the questions she has asked – whether they have been asked verbally or in writing – in this case, and there have been a number of questions. With regard to the supervision of the State, I believe it is important to maintain that the State and the Health Authority have a separate role to play in assessing when and in what areas they supervise. It would be very unfortunate if we got into a situation where supervision is politically determined, and I hope that the representative Toppe agrees with me. As regards further follow-up to this specific case, I replied to it in my reply. I would like to ask Health South-East to explain how they have followed up the fact that a ROS analysis was to be carried out in advance of the conversion. Then I will decide on the content of that answer when I have received the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1106	I think it is positive that the Council of State will take this up with Health South-East, because that is what is critical. It is also the Council of State which has approved the development plan and which should have followed this up at an earlier stage. When I asked about this in March, the question was: ‘ the Council of State can ensure that the medical and health operations at the hospital in Rjukan are defended. [[...]] [[...]] Does the Council of State think it is entirely right that the supervisory authorities function so that they get into these structural processes so late that everything is really over?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1115	Here the representative Kjersti Top takes up different questions in a context that does not necessarily belong together. With regard to the responsibility for the proper functioning of the hospital offer, it is the management of the hospital's responsibilities and it is a responsibility that can neither be delegated down nor moved up. In the answer given by the Hospital Telemark, I find that with regard to the adequacy of patient care, there is something that has been assessed very frequently in this process. This is also the reason why there have been changes in the en route offer, for example: the change that occurred on 16 March. When it comes to responsibility for supervision, I have explained it in my previous answer. I assume, of course, that the risk and vulnerability analyses to be carried out in advance of such a change are sufficient – and that is the question we are going to follow up on Health South-East.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1128	‘Competition conditions in the daily food industry have not been improved in the last two years. The evening post writes on 7 May 2015 about returns for the major players in the grocery market of up to 14 pst. The Minister of Agriculture and Food has repeatedly called for more competition and fairer food. So far, the government has not presented measures to improve competition. Does the Council of State feel there is a need to do something, and what measures does the government consider?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1135	I understand that the representative Storberget is impatient, as he asks similar questions almost weekly. The government is concerned to do this work thoroughly and find the most accurate and effective measures, as we have explained earlier. The government will come back to the Stortinget with proposals for action when we have concluded in the government, which we have black representative Storberget a number of times earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1142	I am grateful for the fact that the Council of State meets in Stortinget and answers questions, but this is, to put it mildly, an answer that does not say anything. One of the reasons why the question needs to be repeated is the need to address the situation we have seen in the food industry. This is also a wish from the Labour Party, but I think there are more in this Chamber who actually see this need. It surprises me a little bit that, in addition to accusing the food chain of taking too high prices, the Council of State does not deliver politically when it sits in a government that adorns itself with having an executive role. Some think about how to actually improve the competitive situation, you have to be the Council of State, when you see how developments are going.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1147	First of all, I would just like to say that the Council of State always asks to answer questions from Stortinget, and it is quite clear that we share the concerns of the representative of Storberget regarding competition in the food market. This is a situation that has arisen over many years, where we have gone from several actors to fewer and fewer, and it is also demanding to find out what measures can help to increase competition in the food market. I've worked well with the Minister of Industry. We work to find out what measures can be taken, and we come back to Stortinget as soon as it is concluded by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1154	I have to say, I'm glad that the Council of State is working on this. In fact, there is an opportunity here to get through a matter in Stortinget that is important to many consumers – and which is really at the heart of the Progress Party’s core area, by wanting to improve the competitive situation. I have recorded that the Council of State has also been in London and looked at how to rig up a part of – I kept saying – the framework around those who are selling groceries, and food chains, so that you might get into a situation where you can at least prevent unfortunate competitive situations. This is, as the Council of State has said, something we have been concerned about for many years. That was the background to the work of the Steensnæs Committee and the Hjelmeng Committee, which resulted in a proposal for a law on good trade practices, a proposal which, in my opinion, was quite clear. I just have to stress that I believe that that is not enough, but that would be an important contribution. So I'm going to ask the Council of State if she's not coming up with a proposal for a law on good trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1161	I am pleased that we agree that that bill is not sufficient, and that is precisely why the government is taking time to look at the other instruments that can be used to bring about more competition in this market. Then I will promise the representative of Storberget that we are working on, both from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, and have a good cooperation on this. We will come back as soon as we have a conclusion from the government on what measures we think are important. I hope then that we will achieve a broad agreement in the Grand Duchy on good instruments that can help to speed up competition in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1172	‘In last year’s agricultural settlement, a unanimous increase was behind the objective of ‘increased food production, with the intention of increasing the level of self-sufficiency based on Norwegian resources’. Governments are well aware that we cannot produce cereals throughout the country, that we are importing significant feed resources and that, among other things, power-feed consumption. in milk production there is a significant increase. What is the plan of the Council of State to increase food production, based on Norwegian resources?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1179	The government wants to facilitate increased food production. Good use of the agricultural area is the basis for this. Animal feed of about 90 pst is produced. of the agricultural area in the country. In addition, we have large and good pastures. I'm glad to see that it's optimism, among other things. among the sheep producers. This allows us to make even better use of the Norwegian pastures, and there is a lot of Norwegian resources. Norway is a grassland, with more limited potential for producing energy-rich crops for food. When we see roughage and power feed combined, almost 80 pst. of the animal feed produced in Norway. However, agriculture has always needed to import some feed raw materials in order to obtain good quality of feed. Here we have little Norwegian production, especially after we banned the use of meat-and-bone meal in the power feed. I am glad that the feed developers are increasingly making feed recipes that increase performance and productivity. It is necessary that work continues, even if there is some import. Also in this area, we have to deal with the outside world and import raw materials we can't produce ourselves. Norwegian farmers have always imported many resources. At the same time, the feed needs of Norwegian livestock constitute a large market for Norwegian producers, if they can be competitive. Research and development are needed. Land productivity needs to rise, and there is also a lot of exciting research to exploit marine resources as feed raw materials.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1190	The offer made by the State in the agricultural holding proposes to cut cultural landscape subsidies and grazing subsidies. This will necessarily lead to a reduction in the use of feed resources in the cultural landscape, resulting in a reduction in the use of grazing and roughage, leading to an increase in the use of power feed for several species. The increase in power-feed, as suggested by the Council of State, may be covered by some increase in agricultural efficiency, but the likelihood is high that it will also lead to increased imports. Can the Council explain how cuts in grazing subsidies and cuts in cultural landscape subsidies correspond to the Storting’s objective of increased self-sufficiency, based on Norwegian resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1197	I will not comment on the offer in the agricultural negotiations. I am not going to comment on anything that has to do with the ongoing agricultural negotiations. But I want to point out what has happened in the sheep industry, which is an industry that uses Norwegian resources very much. We talk very often about that just 3 pst. of our area is cultivated. At the same time, over 40 pst. of the Norwegian area grazing resources. Thus, there are great opportunities to take advantage of this far better than today. The fact that we're now looking at an eagerness to invest in the sheep industry, that we see that the sheep population is going up, means that we have the opportunity to use Norwegian feed resources in an even better way than what we did before. So I'm very happy to see that the grips that were made in last year's agreement work well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1206	It may sound as if the Council of State agreed to replace cows with sheep in Norwegian livestock production, and that is interesting. We'll get back to that later. But on this issue, I am concerned with another offer that the state is making in the agricultural settlement, namely reducing the number of quota regions. A very likely consequence of this is that we get more dairy cows in cereal-producing areas and fewer dairy cows in total, because roughage-based production in the districts will decrease. Again, can the Council of State explain how such a measure, which will reduce the total use of grass resources on cows, is consistent with a policy to increase production, based on Norwegian feed resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1213	I am still not going to comment on the agricultural settlement that is currently under way, even if it is tempting. Milk production is the backbone of Norwegian agriculture, in rural agriculture. And so it is that over many years, the Norwegian cows have had their performance restored. Norwegian red fairy has become more productive. That means there are fewer cows producing the same amount of milk today as there were many more cows a few years ago. See this, for example. From a climate perspective, this means that fewer cows are needed to produce the same amount of milk. This includes, inter alia: the methane emissions down. Liquefied gas is probably also an important gas coming from there. So Norwegian agriculture has a positive trend in efficiency improvement, which also benefits the environment – as I know the representative Rasmus Hansson is concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1220	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-13.ana.ud2139e1233	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. The President shall assume that no one shall require the floor before the meeting is terminated. – It doesn't look like this.
