ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e65	Five permit applications are available: by Mr Jørund Rytman, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on welfare leave of Mr Jorod Asphjell, on 5 March, by Mr Jørund Rytman, on parental leave from 9 March to 9 April, by the Working Party on the leave of Mr Hege Haukeland Liadal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on 9 March to 12 March, to take part in the 59th UN Women's Commission meeting in New York from the Workers' Party on sick leave of Mr Martin Kolberg, on 11 March and until further notice, These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Rogaland County, Øystein Langholm Hansen, there is an application for a waiver to meet in the Stortinget on 11 and 12 March under the authority of the representative Hege Haukeland Liadal, for reasons of well-being. From the first representative of the Buskerud County, Laila Gustavsen, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Martin Kolberg, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: These applications shall be dealt with without delay and shall be accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the County of Buskerud: Anne Sandum on 11 March and until further notice and Tone Heimdal Brataas on 5 March and 9 March–9. April For Rogaland County: Øystein Langholm Hansen 9th and 10th March and Unn Therese Omdal 11th and 12th March For South Trondelag County: Audun Otterstad 5th March.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e143	Tone Heimdal Brataas and Audun Otterstad are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e149	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Hans Andreas Limi. – Other proposals are not available, and Hans Andreas Limi is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. The representative, Mr Henriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e158	I am pleased to present a proposal by the representatives of Helga Pedersen, Hege Haukeland Liadal, Arild Grande, Stine Renate Håheim and myself on safer housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e163	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e177	Never before have so many of the world's citizens so much more of this wealth and cooperation. World trade has doubled by eight since 1970, and the number of extremely poor is halved. More learn to read and write and are guaranteed good health. However, the 2014 crisis year shows that development is not linear. We can't make progress for given. Russia’s violation of international law and the destabilisation of Ukraine spreads uncertainty across Europe. Terrorism has recently hit the heart of Europe, Paris and Copenhagen. The brutality of ISIL and other extremists shocks us all. Not since World War II has so many people been on the run. Conflicts in the Middle East were behind the raised preparedness for terror here at home last summer. Migration and human trafficking across the Mediterranean to Europe challenge the EU’s and our common external border. Foreign policy becomes domestic policy. It requires an overall and effective response. The main objective of foreign policy is to safeguard and promote Norwegian interests – our values, our security and our well-being. The more serious the threats we face, the more important it is to prioritise and concentrate our efforts on the key tasks. We must anchor the policy in the basic values we share with allies and partners globally. We need to mobilise to avoid decades of progress in democracy, human rights, free trade and international cooperation drifting back. We need to get better at dealing with the unpredictable. It's about wear and tear, about building the flexibility, endurance and resilience of Norwegian society in response to rapid changes. Today’s presentation reflects the two sides of foreign policy – on the one hand, the ongoing management of a demanding international situation, where other actors, both state and non-state, are taking the lead and demanding prompt response and action from Norwegian authorities, on the other hand, to anchor foreign policy in common values, to develop new policies in response to new challenges, and to communicate clearly at home and beyond what we stand for, and what are our interests, priorities and values. We must be in the forefront, set the agenda, apply the whole spectrum of foreign policy instruments. I focus this year's presentation on five main thematic lines: security value-based economy peace, development and humanitarian policy climate These are the main lines of foreign policy. Along each of these lines, we work systematically to promote Norwegian interests and values. The first main line of our foreign policy concerns Norway's security, the prevention of war and the emergence of other threats to Norway and Norwegian interests. In today's serious situation, it is important to remember how much we have achieved in the last decades, and that we are together with our allies. The development towards increased trade, well-being and cooperation has made us safer. On the ruins of two devastating world wars, an architecture was built that ensured peace and prosperity on a continent that had previously been marked by war and rivalry. NATO and the European project that became the EU cleared the way and made enemies friends. The transatlantic relationship remains a central priority and the pre-missive provider of Norwegian foreign and security policy. The United States remains the dominant global player politically, economically and militarily. American involvement remains a prerequisite for progress on a number of international issues of major importance to Norway. The political, economic and not least the safety developments in our neighbourhoods give rise to serious concerns. Russia has violated international law and causes acts of war in Europe. In the conflict that is taking place in Ukraine, we see that our neighbouring country is under pressure the very support of the international legal order. Russia has not only tried to move Ukraine’s borders, but it also prevents it from shaping its own future. It is in the utmost consistency about Ukraine’s right to self-determination. That is why the conflict is not just about Ukraine, but about Russia's lack of respect for other states and international rules. Russian military use of power and the increased tension between Russia and European countries have changed the prerequisites for our security. Several NATO member states see Russia as a threat. Increased and amended Russian military activity in NATO's neighbourhoods leads to increased uncertainty, with the possibility of misunderstandings and unwanted escalation. Russia’s behaviour in Ukraine gives rise to deep concern. Since the beginning of the crisis in Ukraine, Norway has been with the EU, the United States and other like-minded countries in the response to Russia’s violation of international law. Norway cannot stand alone when our neighbouring country undermines European security and creates a dangerous situation in our neighbourhoods. We must respond when fundamental principles of international law are broken. The restrictive measures against Russia are necessary in response to Russia’s violation of fundamental international rules. Wide international support gives legitimacy and makes them more effective. It is Russia that has violated international law, and there is now a heavy responsibility for Russia to avoid further sharpening the situation. But we have to expect something more, that Russia returns to international law and the basic rules of international relations. Unfortunately, to date we see no sign of Russia changing its policy. It is positive that the parties to the Ukraine conflict appear to have initiated partial withdrawal of heavy weapons under the new Minsk Agreement of 12 February and that the fighting actions have recently waned. At the same time, the truce is considered to be shattered, and we must be prepared for further escalation and violence. There is no reason to believe that Russia considers its objectives to have been achieved. Their overall objective is expected to remain unchanged: to prevent Ukraine from achieving its objective of European integration and to continue to be able to influence Ukraine in order to safeguard Russian interests. An important response to Russia’s aggression is to help Ukraine succeed. Prime Minister Solberg launched a comprehensive Norwegian package in Kiev in November 2014 with support for key sectors of society. Longer south shocks the herrings of extremists like ISIL, Al Qaida and Boko Haram a whole world. Should terrorists be given long-term control over larger land, it will represent a hitherto unknown and unpredictable threat, including for Norway. ISIL can only be combated by a broad range of political, military, ideological and economic instruments. Norway contributes to all of these areas. It has given us an important place at the table when the United States and central Arab, European and other countries gather to plan the fight against ISIL and other terrorist movements. The enormous humanitarian suffering in the wake of the conflicts in the region also calls for massive humanitarian efforts. Norway is among the largest contributors to the civilian population in Iraq, Syria and the region. The Government has decided to contribute up to 120 military capacity building instructors in the fight against ISIL in Iraq. The new threat picture calls for action. The government will strengthen NATO cooperation and our national defence. Alliance solidarity is a fundamental prerequisite for Norwegian security. If we're to expect allies to stand up for us, we have to stand up for them. It is therefore in our interest to contribute to international operations. Norway must participate in policy-making and contribute to collective defence, crisis management and security through cooperation. We build security, we secure Norway, in close cooperation with our allies and partners. Recent developments have shown that the needs for rapid response capability are crucial. Norway contributes to the important adaptations decided at the NATO summit in Wales by September. Developments include: a new strength with significantly faster response capability than previously to be followed by reinforcement forces. It will be an important and visible contribution to strengthening the credibility of collective defence. The government will strengthen its response to emerging global security challenges. A separate credit report is being prepared. It analyses the following serious threats: new challenges in digital space, international terrorism, organised crime, smuggling and piracy. Global security challenges are complex and rapidly evolving. They tend to occur in vulnerable countries that do not have the ability to combat them. A long-term and holistic approach is important. This is also an increasingly important part of our development policy. We also secure Norway by contributing to the capacity of international and regional actors to resolve conflicts. I would like to highlight the growing importance of Nordic and Nordic-Baltic cooperation. The increased security policy importance of the Baltic region towards Russia makes Nordic and Nordic Baltic cooperation even more relevant. Northern areas are important for Norway and important for the world. Our presence and activity in the northern regions strengthen Norway's position internationally as a responsible Arctic nation. In the north we have vital Norwegian interests to attend to. It is about climate and environment, access to new natural resources and trade routes and security and stability in our neighbourhoods. It is essential that a legal and institutional framework for the Arctic be maintained and respected. Respect for maritime law and international cooperation promotes stability and predictability. It is important to maintain low voltage in the region. We want a good and constructive relationship with Russia. We continue cooperation with Russia in important areas. It still means the participation of Russia in Arctic Councils, Barents' Cooperation and other forums. And that means that we need to work together on issues where we have strong own interests: fisheries management, nuclear safety, the environment and safety cooperation in Arctic coastal and marine areas. People-to-people cooperation built across the border between Norway and Russia will continue to be supported. It's not supposed to be in Norway. We want to preserve meeting places with Russia in the north. At the same time, we must recognise that the changes we see in Russia have an impact on Norway's relationship with the country. Good and deep cooperation requires mutual respect for fundamental rules of the game and for democratic values. That is why defence cooperation is on hold. We closely follow military priorities on the Russian side. The presence and activity of the defence are a central part of the government's North bet. Although the risk of a serious crisis still needs to be considered small, it is essential that we are alert, have good situational awareness and high operational capability. The increased pressure of the Russian authorities against human rights and democratic rights, increased control and repression remove Russia from our common European value base. It is sad to note that the killing of Boris Nemtsov takes place in an atmosphere of Russian politics and social life where it is becoming increasingly difficult to stand up with independent and critical positions. We need to know what we stand for in order to know what direction we're going to go. That's why our second main line is to strengthen the value base. Democracy, human rights, sustainable development and an international legal order underpin our foreign and development policy. If there's something that history has taught us, it's that we can't take basic and universal values and norms for given. They are fiercely fought and still have to be defended. In the last year, we've been reminded of this again. The terrorist attacks in Paris and Copenhagen were directly attacking the free word, the right to think differently, to challenge power. They were trying to scare us to silence. We'll never accept that. Freedom of expression is at the heart of any democracy. Equally uncompromising, we must face anti-Semitism and all forms of racism. We must be clear: the attacks of the terrorist groups ISIL and Boko Haram on freedom of belief and other thinking are estimates of fundamental values. We have achieved a lot in the field of human rights, but unfortunately there is an increasing gap between commitments and compliance with human rights in practice. Alliances of countries present traditional values and religious dogmas to limit individual rights. They refer to principles of national sovereignty and non-interference. We can't accept this. It's against this backstop we recently presented the first big message on human rights in 15 years. The notification shall contribute to the promotion of the basic values. These are values that define who we are, and what we are willing to fight for. Freedom of expression is central to the notification. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has launched a new strategy to promote freedom of expression, freedom of the press and independent media. Respect for human rights provides a safe framework for development and growth. The importance for Norway of general respect for and compliance with common values and standards can hardly be overestimated. Our security and prosperity are based on this. It's based on the fact that right is going to go ahead of power. The work of such a world order is central to the UN. The Security Council is the UN's top body for international peace and security. We are now intensifying our efforts to allow Norway to enter the UN Security Council in 2021–2022. This is part of a long-term policy to safeguard our strategic interests in the UN. The UN is 70 years old and still needs to adapt to a changing world. We are based on the work of previous governments on UN issues. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs just launched a new project to work for more efficient multilateral institutions. The work on a UN reform will take place in key UN processes beyond 2015, where Norway has key roles: funding for development with the Addis Ababa Summit in July, transition from the Millennium Goals to new sustainability decisions in September and the climate summit in December. 2015 is a particularly important year of development. The future will be a test of how the UN and the other building blocks of the multilateral system – the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the World Trade Organisation and the regional development banks – manage to contract, and not least a test of the success of national resource mobilisation, private sector development and job creation in developing countries. Promoting Norwegian economic interests is the third main line of government foreign policy. This means ensuring prosperity and growth, with good framework conditions for an economy that is strongly exposed to developments in international policy and economy. The starting point is good. Norway has a solid economy, high welfare, good adaptability and good business environment. The central contribution of foreign policy to the Norwegian economy, and to business, remains the effort to ensure equal and fair playing rules within the framework of an open global economy. The multilateral trading system is of particular importance for Norway. The World Trade Organisation, the WTO, complemented by the EEA and EFTA Free Trade Agreements, constitutes the support pillar of Norwegian trade policy. It is a challenge for Norway to wrestle the WTO as a negotiating forum. In the shadow of the lack of progress in the Doha Round in the WTO, important trading partners have merged to negotiate alternatives in the mega-agreements between the United States and the EU over the Atlantic, TTIP, and between the United States, Japan and ten other countries around the Pacific, TPP. Increased integration between our close partners in the EU and the United States is positive. At the same time, this development represents new challenges and a new competitive situation for Norwegian business. The Government is actively pursuing Norwegian interests in the light of these negotiations both in Brussels and in Washington. The conclusion of the global trade negotiations – the Doha Round – in the WTO will be a key issue for the government against this. With today’s challenges, it is likely more important to achieve an overall result that ensures the rule-based multilateral system than concrete individual elements. The conclusion of the Doha Round will act as an economic catalyst for Norway and the world and contribute to growth and job creation. We are implementing a change of pace for Norwegian business. We are focusing on competitiveness, knowledge and innovation. The activities of the EEAS shall then be set up. The EEAS shall be a relevant business dialogue partner and for our leading knowledge environments. Norway shall be profiled as attractive to wise heads, talents and investments. The EU is Norway's economic home market. The Norwegian business community should note – and note – that the government is turning each stone in order to ensure a good framework for trade and investment in EU countries. It is very important for us that Europe succeeds in speeding up the economy. Norwegian-based business is at full speed into new, more demanding markets. We will strengthen the EEAS’ advice to Norwegian businesses on corruption, human rights, labour rights and climate and the environment. This shall be an integral part of the work on nutrition promotion at foreign stations. More than three quarters of Norwegian export income comes from marine and coastal economic activities. We've been living at and off the sea for more than a thousand years, and that's where the future lies – in oil and gas, the oil service industry, fish and aquaculture and shipping. Marine and maritime industries are among our leading brands internationally. The government’s North Area Initiative, with a focus on industrial development and a closer link between knowledge and industry, is central. Our goal is to develop North Norway into one of Norway's most creative and innovative regions. The work on peace, development and relief of humanitarian distress is the fourth main line of our foreign policy. Norway’s strong involvement in the field, over time and across many different governments, is a significant quality of Norwegian policy. It is strongly anchored and has its primary reasons in common values and humanitarian imperatives. At the same time, we see that an active policy in these areas strengthens Norwegian interests. We see the impact of conflict and war in other regions spreading to Europe and Norway. Anticipating and preventing conflict in these regions is Norwegian interest policy. A successful development effort provides ground for a rapidly growing globalised middle-class demand for Norwegian goods and services. A climate-conscious development policy reduces emissions to the best of our planet. An effective engagement policy opens doors to key actors globally and gives Norway a positive visibility that means a lot to promote Norwegian interests. Since 1990, the proportion of extremely poor people in the world has been reduced by two thirds. This is a formidable achievement, primarily by people, businesses and governments in the countries themselves. Today, I would like to highlight some key priorities within the fourth main line: humanitarian action, education, health, job creation and efforts to prevent conflict and contribute to peace and reconciliation in vulnerable areas. The UN and the International Red Cross Committee have in 2015 launched their greatest humanitarian appeals ever. Humanitarian needs have increased dramatically, but the global response has not been sufficient. The government has therefore greatly increased the humanitarian budgets in the last two years. In order to deal with the many and long-term humanitarian crises, we need to rethink funding and how we use our total resources. We need to strengthen the interaction between humanitarian and long-term development efforts. In the past, development actors must face crises in order to ensure development, sustainability and a future for the population beyond lifesaving work. Education in crisis and conflict is important in the follow-up to the educational message last year. Norwegian humanitarian aid for education was over 200 million. kr in 2014, and we're going to increase it further. Protecting schools and universities from military use in war and conflict is another important area in our humanitarian efforts. Guidelines are being worked on to ensure protection for children and young people and to continue schooling, even in war situations. A new overview from the World Bank shows that the Bank’s beneficiary country prioritises education. It's not random. Without education and without quality in education, countries cannot build the skills necessary to create jobs and to facilitate economic growth. Norway is taking the lead in raising education — especially for girls — on the global development agenda. In January we launched a results-based fund together with the World Bank. It is one of several that we hope will help reverse an almost incomprehensible downward trend in education assistance provided by the donor countries. And we'll do more: think new, take new initiatives and focus on results. It's not just useful to do more of the same. We are going to double the effort for education – not just in the aid budget, but in an overall foreign and development policy effort that draws others into a monsoon. This summer, we are organising a global high-level conference to mobilise many countries and partners to participate in this promise. If we are to succeed in the long struggle against violent extremism, it is essential to contribute along the tracks where the underlying factors that give ground for such movements are worked on. Education plays a key role in this image. As education, good health is a prerequisite for economic growth. We build on the good efforts of the previous government for global health that has given Norway an international leadership role. Despite progress, the Millennium Health Goals will not be met. It is important that we contribute concrete plans and funding to continue these objectives beyond 2015. The Gavi vaccine alliance and the Global Fund for the Control of AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria are flagships. The outbreak of Ebola in West Africa reminds us of the links between health and safety. Norway’s efforts towards ebola have helped to save lives. The crisis shows how important it is for countries to have sound and adaptable health systems. The capacity of the World Health Organisation to deal with crises should be strengthened. The Prime Minister, together with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President Mahama of Ghana, recently asked the Secretary-General of the United Nations to carry out an evaluation of the international community’s efforts in the fight against Ebola. Access to work is a key factor in combating poverty. This is central to a new Communication on industrial development and cooperation with the private sector in development policy under development. The World Bank estimates that three million new jobs are needed each month over the next 15 years. In developing countries, nine out of ten jobs are in the private sector. Income from paid work is much more important than other types of transfers of money to reduce poverty. Therefore, job creation is a central element of government support for industrial development in developing countries. Many of today's global security threats are symptoms of unresolved political challenges. The result is violence and the loss of control over territory and borders by states. Our challenge is not just to relieve the symptoms, but to help change some of the underlying causes. Our commitment to peace and reconciliation has this as a starting point. We contribute in Asia, Africa and Latin America. In several places, Norway has a special role to play as a facilitator. This applies, inter alia, to: the armed conflict in Colombia, where Norway plays a key role in the peace process together with Cuba. The conflict has lasted for more than 50 years and has led to extensive humanitarian suffering. More than five million people are internally displaced, and more than 200,000 are killed as a result of the conflict. In February, the government launched a new action plan for women, peace and security. This is a central part of Norwegian foreign policy. The conflict in South Sudan is within its 15th month. The danger of famine is imminent, while millions of people are on the run and thousands of lives have been lost in fighting. The parties to the conflict have so far allowed the desire for power and special interests to go ahead of the needs of the population. The aim of the ongoing negotiations is to reach an agreement on the distribution of power and a transitional government by today, March 5. If the parties do not take this opportunity, the UN Security Council is ready to impose penalties on the responsible parties in the conflict. We will also consider the mechanism and extent of Norwegian involvement in South Sudan if the parties do not reach a sustainable peace agreement. There is a desperate need for a political solution to end the violence in Syria. There is no military solution that is good for Syria's population. From the Norwegian side, we actively support the peace initiatives of the UN Special Envoy, Staffan de Mistura. The UN remains the only player with a commonly accepted mandate to bring the parties together. Norway is a major humanitarian contributor. In total, Norway granted approximately 936 million. kr to the Syria crisis in 2014, including humanitarian aid, neighbouring country support and the transport of chemical weapons. We plan for a significant effort in 2015. The abduction of more than 200 Assyrian Christians in Syria last week was a cruel reminder of the vulnerable situation of religious minorities in the region. Religious pluralism is a central part of Middle East history and culture. Norway will continue to fight religious extremism and support the rights of minorities. In Iraq, Prime Minister Al-Abadi has established a more inclusive government than the predecessor al-Maliki. It's positive. Nevertheless, much remains before Iraqi suns, Kurds and Shiaers experience that they are all part of a common Iraqi future project. From Norwegian side, we contribute significant humanitarian aid in addition to the military contribution I have mentioned earlier. In the void after the negotiations collapsed, the Gaza war last summer drove Israel and Palestine even further apart. Civilians have suffered enormous suffering. The Palestinian economy is falling even deeper. It is urgent that the parties return to a political process. The outstanding questions can only be resolved at the negotiating table. The most central task for Norway is to manage internationalcooperation between countries, AHLC. Without an economic basis for Palestinian autonomy, the bottom line will fall under the political process. The role that Norway plays here is also important to get the negotiations going again. Without an end to the occupation, none of the challenges can be solved and the basis for peaceful coexistence is laid. The fifth main line of government's foreign policy is to strengthen the contribution of foreign policy to the fight against climate change. If greenhouse gas emissions are not significantly reduced in the coming years, the two-degree target will be very difficult to achieve. Climate change will be even more dramatic. We already see clear consequences in terms of increased damage from extreme weather, rainfall and floods, increased competition for fishing resources, loss of natural diversity, lack of food and water, increased health problems, reduced economic growth and increased disparities. Where it is not possible to live, more people are forced to flee and the risk of conflicts increases. The government has an offensive climate policy. The target is at least 40 pst. the reduction of emissions in 2030 compared to 1990. Large emitters require a global shift. All countries have to contribute and emissions need to be reduced in a cost-effective way. Norway needs to do a significant job at home, but we also need to contribute our resources and competences beyond our borders. Foreign policy has an important role to play here. We are now increasing efforts for effective climate adaptation – against drought, floods and extreme weather, and by this preventing or reducing climate-related natural disasters. The importance of foreign policy in climate policy is updated with the government’s decision to engage in dialogue with the EU in the EU’s climate objectives of at least 40 pst. Such innovation in the overall Norwegian climate strategy offers exciting opportunities for intensified climate cooperation with the EU, EU countries, business and research communities in Europe. I have started working with my French colleague Laurent Fabius, who is leading the work towards the Paris Conference, COP 21, in December. In two weeks we will organise a joint colloquium on foreign policy and climate in Paris. The importance of the Arctic in climate change is an important theme of the Norwegian-French climate cooperation. A global, ambitious and effective climate agreement is absolutely necessary. But we also have to act here and now. Norway is actively contributing to the strategic use of climate finance through the Green Climate Fund and other multilateral and bilateral channels, through the continued high priority of the Norwegian Forest Initiative, through support for increased use of renewable energy in developing countries and the phasing out of fossil fuel subsidies. We are implementing global projects to reduce flares from oil and gas production and methane leakages from oil and gas production. We are promoting the internationalisation of Norwegian climate technology and green growth. We implement measures aimed at short-lived climate polluters such as methane, HFCs and soot. We invest in adaptation to climate change, including disaster preparedness and food security. We participate in negotiations between key WTO members on zero duty on selected environmental products with a positive climate effect. The climate threat is one of our greatest challenges. As an energy and natural resource nation, Norway has much to contribute to the global fight against climate change. At the same time, we are facing obvious needs for the transformation of the Norwegian economy and society. We need to be able to look into the future, to understand the framework conditions and space for action for Norway. We must be at the forefront of research on new technologies and create good framework conditions for environmental and climate-friendly development. I have taken a serious picture of developments in the world and the challenges facing Norway in the future. But the situation is by no means completely black. We have a lot to build on – strong traditions and alliances, a robust value base and many effective instruments. We have to keep calm and believe in what we are as a society, what we stand for, and the international institutions that are involved and secure our future. We're living in a geopolitical break-up. Power and wealth move east and south in the world. It challenges, but it also offers new opportunities. We are far from the cold war confrontation between superpowers. Despite tensions between China and the United States, they both have a clear mutual interest in their economic, political and security success. Climate cooperation between the United States and China has given fresh hope to the Paris Summit. Developments in China and emerging economies are important for Norway — politically, economically and in the efforts to solve global environmental and climate problems. Work on improving bilateral relations with China is a priority and continues, anchored in Norwegian interests and values. We must dare to think deeply in the face of globalisation, geopolitical unrest in our neighbourhoods and persistent international problem-solving: we must promote our interests, be recognizable, build on areas where we are strong, loyal and stand up to our close allies and seek new regional and global partnerships. Europe is our economic and political core area. We are expanding and deepening our relations with the EU. NATO cooperation has hardly been more important. The OSCE, the Council of Europe and the Arctic Council are important pillars of Europe's political architecture. This year it is 70 years since the adoption of the UN Charter. We need a strong UN more than ever. Norwegian efforts for effective UN response to global challenges are being strengthened. We also build alliances in new global contexts. In January we signed a unique cooperation agreement with the African Union. We are approaching the formalisation of important partnerships on political and economic cooperation with regional associations in Asia and Latin America. The world is changing. Our long-term interests and objectives have not changed, but our response needs to be adapted to the changes. I have presented five main lines of foreign policy. They structure our response to the major challenges. They contribute to securing the future of Norway. They underline the need to promote Norwegian interests and invest in the value base and the global framework to ensure that power is just ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e325	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s foreign policy statement be discussed at a later meeting — and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e339	The Transport Committee has considered the inclusion of Regulations Nos into the EEA Agreement. 1071/2009, No No 1072/2009 and No 1072/2009 1073/2009 on common rules on professional and market access for road passenger and freight. [[EF]] [[EF]] [[EF]] Overall, these Regulations are referred to as the «road package». The aim of the road package is to consolidate and harmonise common legislation in the field of road transport. The road transport industry in Norway has become more liberalised since the conclusion of the EEA Agreement and competition from other EEA countries has increased significantly, giving the transport industry in Norway specific challenges. The Committee welcomes the tightening-up of the road package, which imposes stricter requirements on access to the occupation of carriers and facilitates better control of compliance with the conditions of professional and market access. The Committee has also noted that better cross-border cooperation between responsible authorities is facilitated. The implementation of the regulations in the road package provides tools to strengthen measures against illegal transport. It is positive that a national permit and business register is established and that Norway joins the ERRU, the European register for the same purpose. This can be a tool to verify that transport operators comply with laws and regulations. More effective monitoring of enterprises operating in several European countries will hopefully also prevent tax evasion, smuggling, tax and tax crime and, in particular, social dumping. It is important that this be followed up with increased control, that different control authorities cooperate on control, and that there be penalties for breaches of the rules. It is therefore important that the registers are accessible to all control bodies. This will include, inter alia: the State Road Administration, Labour Inspectorate, Police, Tax Administration and Customs Service. Norwegian road transport industry shall have competitive conditions in order to secure jobs through viable transport undertakings. The Workers’ Party, the Christian People’s Party and the members of the Centre’s Committee are concerned about drivers’ work situation, not least the many foreign drivers who both experience low wages and are exposed to conditions they do not have the competence or equipment to handle in many cases. There is an imbalance in EU directives and regulations in the field of transport, where the primary objective is a common European transport market in order to streamline transport activities and reduce transport costs. Of course, this objective is shared by everyone. However, the impact of regulatory measures on workers and Norwegian transport companies is affected if not clear remedial measures are put in place. I would like, among other things: refer to the working group set up to make concrete proposals to combat illegal cabotage operations by the previous government and to the working group’s recommendation in the report on road cabotage in Norway, which was handed over to the government on 26 March 2014. The report pointed out that several of the provisions of the road package were so unclear that it would represent a challenge for control activities. Other countries have notified national interpretations of the provisions of Regulation 1073/2009 relating to the term ‘tourism’ and the term ‘temporaryity’ for coach and bus. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre believe that the ministry should now use the opportunity to clarify several key concepts, and I refer here again to the report on cabotage by road in Norway. The Government will now carefully assess the measures that can be taken at national level to promote competition on a level playing field among serious carriers and to ensure the pay and employment conditions of transport workers. The introduction of the road package in Norwegian law is the right time to do such a job. The Committee, acting collectively and in a customary manner on these types of cases, concludes that the Storting consents to the EEA Committee’s decision to include in the EEA Agreement the Regulations on common rules on access to the occupation and market for the carriage of persons and goods by road.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e360	I thank the Committee for its good attitude and unanimous support for what has been proposed. I note that the Committee is in favour of the restrictions imposed by the Regulations, in particular by imposing some stricter requirements on access to the profession of carriers and by facilitating better control of compliance with the conditions of professional and market access, as well as by facilitating better cooperation between responsible authorities across borders. It is therefore important that the legislation on professional and market access in the EEA is as precise as possible, so that carriers have a level playing field. Of course, we're very busy working hard on this, and I can give it the assurance that I believe that all the parties in the committee are concerned about it, even if you have some particular comments, which I notice of course. I can stress that the government has been working on this for a long time. We have already had a lot of contact with the EU system, precisely to take care of Norwegian interests in the situation of road freight and bus transport. Over the next 16 months that this government has run, we have had several rounds in the EU, and I notice that many of the things that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in opposition tried to do, but that were rejected because one was not allowed by the EU, are something that this government is doing, and challenges the EU on. It can be done, among other things: on the possibilities of demanding smooth driving or wintering properties on heavy goods vehicles, as we have recently been in the EU to make a new leap forward, and we feel that we are moving forward. It feels very satisfactory to me. We have also recently sent a letter to the new Transport Commissioner, Bulc, who mentions the importance of a level playing field between carriers within the EEA territory. In this letter we mention that we want common EU rules in several areas, for example: to obtain better statistics on freight cabotage, to obtain statistics on passenger cabotage as is the case for freight transport, to make a common definition of what is meant by temporary cabotage in passenger transport, to ask the Commission to assess whether the cabotage activity can be recorded in a common register, so that a common overview of it can be obtained, and to require that bus services carry passengers into the country in order to be allowed to carry out cabotage transport. I would also like to remind you that this government has proposed a 30-day limit on continuous and 45-day total in a year for cabotage operations in the passenger transport sector. It's an area that was also discussed under the previous government, which let it go, so it's very good if it's now that all the parties in the Great Government support this that today's government implements, but it wasn't the majority to do under the previous government. Then I remind you that when someone wants control, it's also very good, because that's something we've already done. This government and this majority have granted more money, so during the last winter we quadrupled the control activities along the roads. Further reinforcements have been made during this year, and in addition, a digital control tool has been developed in Vegvesen which allows them to estimate themselves that they can almost double the control activities only at time savings per check. It says a little bit about what level we can get up to. We're not quite where we want to be yet, but the growth is obviously strong. In addition, we have done several steps where, among other things, based on the cabotage report, a PCF involving the various control modes has been established. The aim is to ensure better control of heavy-duty vehicles. I was recently in Kristiansand and participated in a night check on heavy-duty vehicles on the ferry to see how things work there with regard to Customs, and other things that should have been better coordinated. We're also working on that. I also remind you that we have introduced mandatory bombing. In Stortinget for treatment, we have a warrant for the use of a new control tool with the possibility of a detention and use of a lock for a vehicle. What makes me happy is that the sum of this makes that e.g. The road service, when interviewed by the newspaper Nordlys, is now experiencing that the standard of car combinations coming to Norway in that region is better than it has been. The road service adds to this that there is a greater chance of being stopped, and greater costs when one is stopped if one does not have everything in order. It shows that it is not just the checks themselves that do the good, but the signal effect and the reputation it gives in the industry, that now it is harder to come to Norway and not follow the rules. Then we've achieved a lot through signals, as well as showing it in practice. Then the signals become credible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e379	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e393	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e400	Finally, the Stortinget is to adopt today a road solution which ensures an acceptable traffic situation in and around Kongsberg. The E134 Damåsen-Saggrenda project is an important project to improve traffic flow, road safety and the environment in and through Kongsberg. The stretch is perhaps the most unfortunate at E134 in Buskerud. Upgrading this route will benefit both road safety and the environment. A new route will provide significant improvements for the environment and traffic flows along today’s road network. For years, one of the strongest industrial environments in the country has pointed out the need for efficient transport to and from Kongsberg. Industrial locomotives such as the Kongsberg Group and the FMC have been fighting for years for better transport solutions to improve the ability of industry in the region to grow and strengthen its competitiveness. All credit today must be given to local politicians, including, inter alia: the former rapporteur, the current rapporteur, Mr Eriksrød, at the head, who has never given up the work for E134 to be put in place. I would also like to mention the current rapporteur from the Labour Party, Mr Vidar Lande, and not least Vice-President Arvid Lyngas, who has really been on the line to get the project in place. This project is also important beyond the Kongsberg region. E134 is one of the most important roads between east and west. Now that they're getting an acceptable standard, we're getting rid of a substantial bottleneck. At the same time, it also underlines the need for further upgrading of E134 through Buskerud, among others. with double runs on the Stroemsåstunnel. I also want to mention that there has been very good cooperation between politicians and business locally to get to this, and that business has also shown the will in previous phases to actually finance parts of the road itself. But then to the project itself. The project includes the construction of 13,2 km of new main road and approximately 10 km of new secondary roads and associated structures and ancillary installations. The ÅDT in 2040 is designed to vary between 8,700 and 22,700 vehicles on different parts of the route. About 8,5 km must therefore be built as a quadruple road, while the remainder is built as a two-field road with a mid pulley and a pass-by field. The Committee endorses the recommended cost and governance framework of the Ministry of Transport. The project is mentioned in the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, starting in the first period 2014–2017. Among other things, asked questions from various politicians locally, because one feared that construction start would not happen in spring 2015. That is why I am very happy that the government and the Ministry of Transport have had full pressure on the matter, so that we can today adopt the project, and that construction will start in spring 2015, and that we will have a completion in 2019. At the same time, I would like to point out that the project was also mentioned in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, starting from 2010–2013. This did not happen, as we know, and therefore this was also one of the projects on the list of 22 projects which unfortunately were delayed under the red-green government when the Senter party sat with the Minister of Transport. That's too bad. It was a great disappointment that the project was postponed and not adopted here in Stortingen, and therefore it is particularly gratifying that we are going to adopt this today. It's a happy day for residents and businesses in the Kongsberg region. With this I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e417	I am of those who use E134 as my way when I run between the West and Austland. And over the well over 30 years it has been my way, I have registered that this has been obvious also many more ways. Traffic has increased considerably, but the standard has also increased considerably, both west and east. Improvements and new trasés have made E134 more and more accessible and more traffic-safe compared to the high traffic growth. However, many remain before E134 can be said to have a good standard on the whole route, and one of the most important areas is said to have a forward-looking traffic solution when we now adopt the proposal for the development and financing of E134 Damåsen-Saggrenda in Buskerud. For it has been – and will probably be until the project is completed – that when one comes running on the European road, E134 with a standard and 80 km/h speed limit, and one comes to Kongsberg, where narrower roads are preferably in, passes through densely built roads with many runs and runs, and the road has reduced speed limits to 40 km/h. Today, when one runs E134 through Kongsberg, one has to force more high speed bumps before one passes through the city. There's a crack at what's initially a pretty flat road. I guess we've all heard about the renowned Kong Mountain Neck. It was in fact time groundbreaking for the jumping sport, but would listen to the past. A car ride on the E134 today gives you the experience that the Kongsbergknekken still characterizes the city, but now on the road. As a long-haul route on a European road, large quantities of local traffic are perceived to be very disruptive in the traffic image. So it's also on E134 through Kongsberg. And I've wondered more than once where they come from, all of these cars swinging off and on the main road, and why there should be so much local traffic right here. For a while I was with the Transport and Communications Committee on a trip to Buskerud. We then got a good insight into the vibrant and strongly growing business world in and around Kongsberg. And it's quite impressive that we in this area have such a strong international industry. And then it's precisely that here we get a solution for both transit traffic and local traffic that makes the project E134 Damåsen–Saggrenda a very good and important project. And even though the quality insurers' analyses determine that the project, with the proposal for funding, is marginally unwelcome, with minus 35 million. kr, there can be no doubt that the realisation of Damåsen-Saggrenda will bring great social benefits for both the community and the community. When we also know that this route is the most unstoppable on the whole of E134 in Buskerud, it is an extra emphasis that we are dealing with a good case today. The project is in the current national transport plan, mentioned at the start of the first four-year period, and I expect that one with a positive decision today will be able to keep the scheduled progress plan, i.e. start of construction in spring 2015 and the opening of the main project for traffic in 2019. The municipality of Kongsberg, the municipality of Obere Eiker and the municipality of Buskerud have joined the development and financing scheme. As with the rest of the Committee, the Labour Party also supports the proposal to reduce some of the restrictions imposed on the side roads. The government has announced a toll reform. We in the Labour Party look forward to debating it, and some of the expected effects are also mentioned in the Proposition. The Committee also pointed out in its comments that merging to fewer toll companies would make it natural for Damåsen-Saggrenda also to be part of one of the future toll companies, when they are established. But the most important thing today is that we make decisions on the development and financing of E134 Damåsen–Saggrenda, and that the Kongsberg knuckle can be returned to the history books as a groundbreaking leap style.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e443	The Progress Party believes that the development of new E134 in Buskerud between Damåsen in Upper Eiker and Saggrenda in Kongsberg is an important road project in terms of road safety and traffic flows. The road is an important link between parts of the East and the West and is the main trajectory in this part of Buskerud. The improvement of the route with mainly new four-field roads will improve the accessibility of both transit and local traffic and will likely lead to fewer road accidents. Today's E134 on this route has a bad standard with respect to width and curve. The road passes through urban and densely populated areas and today offers poor accessibility. The stretch is the most unfortunate at E134 in Buskerud. Toll collection on two possible toll roads, existing E134 and Fv, is included in the project. 287. On a third reversion, fv. 72, it is added to traffic-restrictive measures with speed bumps. The Progress Party is pleased that an overall committee has a recommendation on the matter that some of the restrictions on cross-roads be reduced, such as: to reduce the number of toll stations. The Progress Party is also pleased with the majority of the Committee, which is concerned with the effectiveness of the toll collection and with the minimisation of the costs of collection and financing. Finally, the Progress Party believes that low costs should be able to benefit the drivers through lower rates of duty or shorter collection periods, and has a comment on this in the case, together with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e456	With a positive decision here today, work on the new E134 in Buskerud can start already in spring, and the main project can be opened up for traffic in 2019. New E134 between Damåsen in Upper Eiker municipality and Saggrenda in Kongsberg municipality are mentioned in the National Transport Plan. In the budgets for 2013 and 2014 and in the current budget, funds are allocated for the design, land use and other preparatory work. With the proposal from the government that is being discussed here today, we are on track for progress. That's good. For the Christian People's Party, this is a very important project. Traffic safety is, among other things: to build new and safer roads. The range of E134 in Buskerud is a very unhappily distance. There's a lot of pressure on everyone who's using this way. New roads in this area will improve the safety of drivers. There will also be better accessibility for local traffic, but also for those using the road as passageways, and it is particularly important that we can expect a reduction in the number of accidents. In this type of case, tolls are usually the subject of the Stortinge treatment, which is the formal basis here as well. Often, in such cases, assessments are made locally related to the regulation of cross-road traffic. There may be several reasons why a person wants to regulate the traffic related to the cross-roads, but often this is about how a person maintains the very funding base of the project. In the matter we are dealing with here today, a joint committee has addressed this very issue. The Committee would have considered whether it is possible to reduce some of the lateral restrictions and thus, where appropriate, achieve fewer tolling stations. At the same time, we from the Christian People's Party have been concerned with following closely what is the consequences of any reduction here. If one reduces some of the lateral restrictions, it is very important to follow closely what this may result from consequences. We must not risk the funding. That is why we ask the government to take this into account in the evaluations, as is also stated in the last sentence of the proposal for a decision in the committee's position, and which, therefore, the Christian People's Party is particularly concerned about. Finally, the Christian People's Party is pleased that we are now making a decision here. That means we can get a new, better and safer road on the E134 in Buskerud in a few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e469	E134 Damåsen–Saggrenda in Buskerud is an important new road construction from Upper Eiker and into Kongsberg. It will ensure a much faster approach by car to Kongsberg, especially into the food park in Kongsberg, where there are many thousands of people working, and not least the new route of E134 is a measure to make transit traffic Hokksund-Notodden safer and better, as many before me have said. Like the Ombudsman on the Buskerud bench of Stortinget, who has the closest geographical connection to the new road, I would like to thank him for the great professional and political investigation work – both under the red-green government and today’s government – which has led to a formal decision today to implement the road project. Once the road project has been completed in time, there is also a connection with demanding planning in the municipality of Kongsberg, which I believe the chairman of the committee has been aware of. We're adding up to a plant start-up in the spring, and the main project is expected to open up for traffic in 2015. The road project has become very expensive, including: as a result of 8,5 km of 13,2 km new main road being built as a four-field road, including major tunnels. There are also 10 km of sideways, with associated structures and side installations. To fulfill previous promises to the municipality of Obere Eiker in connection with the new E134 Hokksund–Kongsberg, a new route to Darbu is now completed on fv. Seventy-two. It is an important improvement in road conditions in Darbu. Darbu has a great potential for building new dwellings on beautiful sites on rock floor, which is positive, from the centre party's point of view. Construction of dwellings over the marine boundary of approximately 190 moh. on the ground-mountain area has great possibilities, both in Kongsberg and in Darbu. The economic governance framework is 4 140 million. kr in 2014-kroner – the most expensive single project in the history of Buskerud, as far as I know. The road system is financed by $1780 million and $2360 million. kr in tolls, i.e. a very high toll ratio. The advance party in the district council in Buskerud voted against tolls at the meeting on 7 May 2014. The centre party and the left voted for the second location of the toll station, and the right had a protocol entry inviting the government to increase the State funding share. Government – with the leader of the Progress Party as Minister of Finance and Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party as Minister of Transport – has, in this proposition, laid the groundwork for a higher total cost of the project than was the basis for local political treatment, and the Progress Party in the Ministry of Transport has chosen to shift the entire bill over to the drivers – thus in the opposite direction to what was also said by the Right in the County Treatment. The central party supports in setting the financing of the road project. However, in my view, the debate on this toll financing, with the associated cost increases due to the side-by-side bombing and the state’s financial position, shows that there is now a need for a debate on the principle of the use of tolls in the construction of new road projects. In my opinion, I believe in principle that tolls on road installations should only be used in connection with the establishment of bombing rings and associated cow pricing. Tolls are used in conjunction with the setting up of toll rings and associated cow pricing. The state’s financial position is such that there is no need to have tolls on ordinary roads, but it is very appropriate for the State to have tolls and associated cow pricing, in order to be able to regulate traffic so that one does not need to build up a capacity that is socially unprofitable. This is a debate that I believe the Committee on Transport, the Council of State and the Grand Council should take, because it leads to so much extra costs for these bombs, it leads to so much local political debate that is quite useless, and it is also a position that the leadership of the Progress Party has said that one should get away from. That's why I'm calling for a new orientation at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e488	I am very pleased with the decisions that the Storting is now making. It is an overall committee that promotes the recommendation in the decision to proceed with the project and realises it. This is important, not only for the municipalities of Kongsberg and Obere Eiker, but for the whole region, yes, really for the whole of the South-West and the South-East – because here we are building a road that solves many local traffic challenges and that also helps to connect the East and the West more closely. There are probably many of us who come from the West, who have used E134 as the primary road when we've driven between east and west, and who have seen and experienced how getting through Kongsberg is a sneaky affair. Now we get this improved. Not least moving heavy traffic away from where people live and work, and where schoolchildren go, and getting it into their own trajectories so that people are safer and more comfortable in their local environments, is very important to us. In addition, one knows that the Kongsberg region is an important nutrient region. For us who come from Rogaland, it is great to travel into the forests of Kongsberg and experience that some of the most advanced offshore competence in the world is just sitting there. It is important to be able to build roads linking housing and working regions both locally and nationally. This is a contribution by the business community in Kongsberg to the other industrial clusters in the oil service industry, and it is also very good, but not least road safety: unfortunately, Buskerud has been one of the most vulnerable regions in Norway in terms of road safety and traffic deaths. This is one of several important contributions to improving that statistics by building better infrastructure. It's a big project that's about to be built. It has a governance framework of over 4 billion. kr. This is a multi-session management framework and the project has taken a long time to implement. It is not correct that the cost increase has been completely shifted to the driving lists. The state's share has increased by 360 million. kr compared to the national transport plan. But it's also higher toll than you thought when you had a cheaper project -- yes, that's the way it is. We commit to comply with the national transport plan, yes, not just in compliance, but overfulfill it. We see this in the 2015 state budget. While the 2014 budget, presented by the previous government, underfunded the national transport plan by 4 to 5 billion. kr, over-financing of the national transport plan of more than 1 billion was committed for 2015. kr. This shows a very clear commitment, and that means that more projects could be accelerated than one had entered in the budget last year. In the case of tolls, there are also tolls here, and it is also a guide from the national transport plan. I think it is very interesting when some representatives now rebel against the transport plan that their own party contributed to, in a department that their party ruled. There's a debate that Stortinget more than would like to take, but we're putting ourselves on the leaders that exist. I record that when today's government has proposed several times to reduce bomb tariffs, or even pay off the debt early in order to remove toll stations, there have been major protests from the previous government parties. Now, if it's a new orientation from those parties, it's very interesting, and it's a debate that should be continued. One can start construction, and one will finish this project in 2019, as it is now. It'll take a few years to build it, but now we're in the process. Many of the headlines that have been in the media in recent years that a fear of delay show that one has taken the troubles ahead. We deliver what is promised. Now the Vegvessen can start to realize the project, and I also notice that the business community in Kongsberg says that if it goes a month from time to time, it is not the most important thing. The important thing is that we now get started and that it now comes true. This will be a pleasure for the industry in the local environment, in the region and for the whole of South-East and South-West, so we just get to say congratulations to each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e505	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e508	The Damåsen–Saggrenda is an important project at E134, and I am pleased that the recently submitted East–West statement points to the fact that at least this must become one of those on which to invest more. E134 is particularly good if the road also gets an extra arm from Odda and from Bergen. E134 goes today from Haugesund to Drammen. I don't want to say a bad word about either Haugesund or Drammen, at least not from this pulpit, but in the NTP comments, the majority of the transport committee asked for that rv. 23 reclassified as part of E134 from Drammen and until E6 in Frogn, about one hour running from Sweden. How will the State Council follow up the NTP comments at this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e513	I just want to say nice things about both Drammen and Haugesund, although Brenne is not allowed to play in the same division in football as they are! In terms of road standards and design of road numbers, there is one thing we're working on, not as part of this, but as we look forward to working on the national transport plan in general. Some changes were made when it came to county roads and highways a few years ago. Many of the members of today's government parties were skeptical of what happened. We're not going to go in and look at you and a road map. We think it's natural that one looks at it in a larger context, and the big context is the municipal reform we're working on. It's a time perspective and an approach there. It's important that we use our time effectively, and we believe that we do that by having that approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e521	Thanks for the answer. The follow-up is then: does the Council of State see it as natural if E134 becomes one of the main routes to the east and west, that it is extended so that we westers get a road that ends up in Europe and that this can be clarified towards and through the NTP process? I've heard something about this being something that the United Nations obviously needs to take care of. I don't quite understand what the United Nations has to do with it, but if it is the United Nations that has to clarify the European road status, it would be good to send an application for a guard, because I don't think they work that fast.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e526	I don't know if I'm going to interfere with the UN and criticism against the UN into this. I think European roads are often something Europe itself takes care of. But I remember driving on highways out of this country even if you live in the West. One must not slavishly follow a road number. As a Westerner, I know I'm coming to Europe if I drive E18 and E39 as well. So there are many possibilities – there are many roads to Rome. When it comes to speeding up which of the major sections east-west that one falls on, I don't think we're going to do it now. I notice that the representative Rommetvei is now also talking about finding some major roads. It is a much clearer tone than in Bergen a year ago when all roads were to be given priority. So I feel that we should be able to find good solutions to the issues raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e533	What I said in my post was that the total cost of the project was greater than what was underlying the treatment of the case, among other things. in the county, and that the Ministry of Transport then chose to manage the full cost increase on the driving lists. That's what was my reference point. I underlined that the Central Party voted in favour of funding, and at the same time invited me to a debate on the principle of the use of tolls. I choose to ignore the usual invitation to discuss what has been said and done before, because I think we have enough of this in this room. What I think is interesting, though, is that the Council of State says that he wants such a discussion about how we're going to use the tolls. Then my question is whether the Council of State could base it on its department, or whether the Stortinge Sea must make proposals to get that debate. It might be interesting to get an answer. The last question is how the Council of State looks at bombings with cow pricing, which the Senterpartiet sees as very beneficial.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e542	It is a little difficult to discuss today's situation without going back to the fundamental debates that have taken place before. I remember that there is no more than approx. two years ago, the last government conducted the precisely principle debate that the representative here calls for. It was then also the representative Lundtägen's party who was in charge of the debate on the principle in the Ministry of Transport. The decision was not to reduce the use of tolls. It was the opposite of increasing it strongly. It was to remove all the local discount schemes, all the possible local adjustments, and say you should have a discount of 10 pst. So if the Central Party is now starting to change in that debate, it's very interesting and in that case something that a Frp-er in the Storting will seem to be even more interesting. But I, as a government council, am running a government platform that says we're going to build more roads, and we're going to have a lower share of tolls. This means that especially on the main road sections like this, the toll percentage could go down, while on city parcels it would not be able to go down to the fullest extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e547	I thank you for the answer, but we get a lot of the same story about what happened earlier. There is a need for us as elected representatives to be reasonably dynamic and to understand what is happening in time around us, and the experiences we are doing. Do I understand correctly that the government has a platform that makes such a conversion as what I am now sketching and discussing conflict with the government platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e554	I think, in particular, that we who grew up in agricultural areas, know that there is a harvest today, is the result of what was sown yesterday. Then, when a complaint about the crop today, one cannot claim that it has no connection with the one sown yesterday – as the representative Lundtigen is now trying to do. So I would point out that there is a connection between what you yourself have been involved in adopting, and what you see is being implemented. I represent a party that has gone to elections that we believe there is an inefficient way to finance roads: to collect money through tolls rather than to fund it through the tax bill. That's what the party I represent has been alone about. We took the consequences when we joined the government, and we have said that we've had the advantage of getting less tolls than the representatives of Lundtigen's party and his majority added, but we can't get rid of it. It is interesting if the representative Lundtigen – and I hope he represents his entire party and not just himself – wants a debate on this, but I think that debate I should invite the Stortinget to take and not let a single representative challenge the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e561	I thank you for the answer, which was not an answer to what I asked for. Otherwise, it's like you're hurting every year. You have perennial plants, which provide crops for many years to come, and you have annual plants, which you sow every year, and which get crops every year. The metaphor is reasonably good for what's my position. We relate to what has been sown in the past when it comes to financing this package, while inviting me to a discussion on how to sow and reap in the future of what is to be sown in the coming years. My question is the same: is there such a discussion, where one goes away from tolls on projects where it is not part of bombing and the possibility of cow pricing, contrary to the government's platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e570	It is true that there are perennial plants and a lot of strange – and thank you and the price for them. It allows us to have a versatile agriculture and a versatile nature to be in. At the same time, I remind you that the crops after the sowing of the previous government, which Lundtigen represents, were toll harvesting from 9 billion. NOK 18 billion. kr and up to 36 br. kr. At no time were any seeds sown that meant that one would spend less tolls, rather on the national road project. This government, on the other hand, has said that we're going to do something different. We're going to spend more government money on national road projects. We're going to spend less tolls. If the representative Lundtigen now violates the policy of the previous government, it is very happy, for today's government represents that development – contrary to what his own. I also remind you that the previous government presented a plant programme for the next ten years, called the National Transport Plan, which added up to 100 billion. kr in tolls. Yes, the toll usage was so much that the representative Pollestad had to ask: How much did the red-greens decide before they left? So it's a happy development I hear, and I encourage the Storting to take the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e577	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e582	Today is a happy day for Kongsberg. Finally, we will have a solution for E134 Damåsen-Saggrenda. With this know-how, we're raising the quality of a number of road users and a number of people, because today traffic is shut down by what becomes a bottleneck, which creates despair for road users and citizens. The implementation of the Damåsen–Saggrenda ensures a good entry path for the thousands of people working in the Kongsberg industry, making the industry happy. The road users are no longer being closed – with this realization – through the centre of Kongsberg, which means that both them and the inhabitants will be satisfied. Traffic safety and what has so far been an excessive burden on the route are getting better. Then, as politicians, we can feel that we've done our job. I have enjoyed working on this matter both from the Upper Eiker Municipality and from the Buskerud County. In the halls there has been no doubt about the local involvement to get a solution. Even the most frequently toll-free FrPs in the Upper Eiker municipality were wholeheartedly in favour of toll financing in the Upper Eiker. There has been a pressure on the importance of completion, and the consensus that it is important has been great. That's why this is a happy day for Kongsberg – and for all of Buskerud.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e591	It is a joyous day for the Buskerud and Kongsberg region – which many here have been in – when the route Damåsen – Saggrenda becomes a reality. That's what happens with the decision in Stortinget today. We've been waiting for a very long time. Both the municipality of Kongsberg, the municipality of Obere Eiker and, not least, the municipality of Buskerud have worked hard to realize the project. These deserve a great deal of thanks. This has also been a cross-political project, how many have worked together. I would particularly like to thank the Minister for Transport and, not least, the case-rapporteur, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, for an incredibly rapid and flexible treatment. You've really been on this. It is not to hide that we in Buskerud have been quite concerned about this project. There have been delays and delays. There could have been more, but here the government has stood on, not with the King's mountain neck – as someone has said here – but actually in the beautiful V-style of Boklöv. And the government has spent money, so we get a plant start in 2015. Today's road is not satisfactory. It's narrow, dangerous and swinging. I've even commuted along this road for ten years. The road passes through the city and through densely built areas. It gives noise, reduced air quality and vibrations in the houses along the way. In fact, transit traffic is poor performance, and there is actually a daily traffic of around 19 000 vehicles in most cases. This is the most accident-affected route in Buskerud. In addition, Kongsberg has one of Norway’s largest and most advanced industrial clusters. To get to the Technology Park, you have to go through the city today. With this grip, a new access to the Technology Park has been established. It's great for those who commute, because the commuting into town will still be big. There's commuting into the hospital, which is in town, to the college, which is in town, and to the college. Business has been on, and they deserve praise. I am particularly pleased that the Committee asks the government to consider some of the restrictions on the side roads – such as the number of toll stations – and further that the majority are concerned with effective toll collection and that the cost of this will be as low as possible. The Right Party and the Advance Party believe that this will benefit the drivers, for example: over a shorter recovery period. A happy day for Kongsberg!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e609	This is really Kongsberg's day here on the Stortinget. What we are doing now is to facilitate Kongsberg's further development and good development, both in terms of industrial development and social development. Kongsberg has one of the country's most innovative and knowledge-intensive business clusters. The value creation is great, in both national and international contexts. Therefore, infrastructure, availability and efficiency are crucial. The matter we're dealing with, it facilitates just this. In addition, E134 is an important road link between parts of the East and the West, and it is a major trajectory in this part of Buskerud. Today's E134 between Damåsen and Saggrenda is not good enough. In good Norwegian: it is curved, narrow and traffic dangerous. The range is, as many have been in the past, the most accident-prone at E134 in Buskerud. It cannot therefore be stressed that it is important that the government now follows up, and that the Stortinget stands together in this matter. There have been good local processes, where the municipalities concerned and the municipality of Buskerud have made important contributions to the fact that this matter is now on our table. Together with local business, local government and county councils have worked purposefully and efficiently. It is very important for progress. I remember that, as the newly elected rapporteur in Upper Eiker, I took part in the celebration when the work with the couple on the E134 between Hokksund and Damåsen was started, i.e. the previous parcel on the section we are dealing with today. It was a project that was groundbreaking with cooperation between municipalities, counties, businesses and state authorities. The starting point at that time was a semi-complete road that ended in a soilful in the middle of the forest. It's now over 15 years ago. It is a perspective on the long-term thinking that good local and political forces have in this matter. It also confirms the success of an overall community, business and regional authorities in their ongoing and continuous work on an important and coherent matter. I end with a congratulations on the day of residents and businesses in Kongsberg and Obere Eiker and a thank you to all those who have worked for this matter for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e628	On April 28, 1999, there were not so many of us here at Stortinget – except the President and I. Lundtigen was probably also here, no, he had been here before. Then I asked Minister of Transport Dag Jostein Fjærvoll about the father in order to have the couple exposed Anders B. Werep just mentioned, from Hegstad to Damåsen, i.e. the previous parcel on E134. It gives us the perspective that it takes time to build the country's highways. It's a happy day today, when we get on the road through Kongsberg. 15–16 years ago, the struggle was about to continue the road that was going to Kongsberg, and today we see that the capacity on the road between Drammen and Kongsberg is blown up. My rewarding hope is that the government – and I have great faith in that – is now following up what we have said about looking at whole lines. We're going to give the opportunity to expand in a socio-economic order, and in the national transport plan, it's very clear that there is a need to double the tunnel capacity in the Stroemsåstunnel, which will be the next project. Then one comes out on a two-field road that runs between Drammen and Mjøndalen, and the natural thing would be that there was a four-field road. Then there's a parcel from Mjøndalen to past Hokksund, or to what's called Hegstad, which is also not very optimal. It shows that having overall transport planning, thinking national pathways or highways between east and west, as Magne Rommetveit well described, as E134 is, is becoming increasingly important. To show that we have a complete grip and look at the main roads between east and west, I think is also very important. Today is a joyous day for Kongsberg, and I will especially – in addition to the politicians who are famous – praise the business life of Kongsberg, with the Kongsberg Group, FMC and others in the lead that for years, ever since they were on the splinter team that gave way to Kongsberg, have been on to get a road that is worthy of getting the goods out. In the old days, i.e. The last millennium, in the 1990s, was the major problem of the Krekling downturn. Then the goods did not arrive, because they did not come during the railway downhill. Today, the main challenge is queue, cork and chaos through Kongsberg. Now the Storting takes an important step to get it sorted out, but we have to take several big steps to figure out the main roads between the East and the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e641	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e655	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government, within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e662	The Ministry of Transport promotes in its proposal the development and financing of phase 1 of a urban transport package in the Lower Glomma region of Eastfold. It is a unanimous committee that joins the proposal, and I would like to thank all the members of the Committee for good cooperation. Today, there are about 130 000 inhabitants in Fredrikstad and Sarpsborg, and the area is still growing. With about 110 000 inhabitants within the agglomeration, this country is the fifth largest urban area in the country. It is therefore envisaged that the region should conclude an urban environment agreement with the country and this urban package will be included in it when the agreements are in place. Today's main road network in Lower Glomma has significant access problems. This creates traffic and environmental problems on both the main road network and the lateral network. The main roads to and through cities are more or less congested during the periods of the rush, extending over an increasingly large part of the day. The resolution problems on the main road network have resulted in the transmission of transit traffic from the national road network to the urban gate network during the rush periods. The main road system has several critical links where there are no alternative viruses. The bridges above Glomma and Seutelva are examples of this. The vulnerability of the transport system is therefore high, including for bus and other useful services. The Glomma provides a barrier to local traffic. As indicated by the title of the proposition, the urban package is divided into several phases. This has been a matter for the Committee. In an answer to questions put by the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party, the State Council answers: «The Lower Glomma package must be divided into several phases in order to be able to specify the planning basis for the projects concerned. This is necessary in order to obtain a satisfactory picture of the costs and feasibility of implementation. I would also like to point out that several meetings have been held where we have had a good dialogue with the municipalities and county councils about the process in the future, and the basis for dividing the project into several phases. I also propose to have a good dialogue with local authorities in the future about the City Package. The number of phases depends on local priorities and the progress made in detailing the planning basis for the projects in question. I will come back to further progress for the City Package Lower Glomma when there are further clarifications." Projects and actions in Phase 1 of the Urban Package Lower Glomma have an economic framework of 1.2 billion. 2014-kronor. The funding is based on tolls and state and county funds. In phase 1, priority is given to the project, etc. 110 Ørebeck-Simo in Fredrikstad. Riksvei 110 is the main entry year of Fredrikstad from E6 in the north and is an important transport year for local and regional traffic. The project governance framework is set at 675 million. EUR 2014 and the cost framework is set at SEK 745 million. kr. In addition, a number of public transport measures and walking and cycling measures are given priority in both Fredrikstad and Sarpsborg. A total of 350 million is proposed. SEK for public transport measures and measures for walking and cycling, of which SEK 170 million. kr is assumed to be financed by tolls. Furthermore, funding is proposed for the planning of programme area actions in Phase 1 and projects in the next phase. As stated in the case, this is part of a larger package. The financial envelope for the entire package in the overall proposal is about 9 billion. kr, but as mentioned in the letters of reply of the Council of State, uncertainties relate to the costs of part of the projects. However, I would like to point out that, in its comments, an overall committee expresses a strong need for continuity in the progress of the overall package. In my work on the matter, I was also made aware that it would be useful to coordinate important investments in the urban package with the implementation of the intercity project through the two cities. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e697	We are pleased that, with this matter being dealt with today, we are launching the development of roads and collective solutions for the municipality of Sarpsborg and the municipality of Fredrikstad. The road system in Fredrikstad and Sarpsborg has been congested and difficult to get on for as long as I have lived in Eastfold – for over 20 years. Discussions on solutions to the problems have taken place for the same time. Strong local political scepticism to promote urban packages of tolls in both cities was a long cause for this. Eventually, the majority of the parties realized locally that the strategy of making the country pay would not lead to – with the exception of the Progress Party, which has constantly opposed and voted against this. And we now see that neither with the Advance Party in government, would a continued strategy of making the state pay for it. It has been working for many years to reach an agreement on the combined development of the road and public transport networks and routes in Fredrikstad and Sarpsborg and the financing of it, and after reaching an agreement on development and financing, the City Pack Lower Glomma has been through all necessary local policy decisions, in the Eastern County Municipality and in the Municipal Governments of Sarpsborg and Fredrikstad. Good political craftsmanship from the county rapporteurs and our rapporteurs in the two cities is behind. However, they have had to wait for a major handling of the matter. In addition, they have also had to endure the fact that the new government is changing the rules of the game. Both the State Council and the State Secretary have expressed in meetings with the county council and the municipalities that they use the locally adopted urban package, without major changes. The council promised that the matter would be presented to the Storting in the autumn session – it has been trusted locally, but it was the spring session. But the most serious thing is that the Council of State has split up the urban package in several phases. As stated in the setting: ‘However, there is considerable uncertainty about the costs and implementation of the development plans in the local proposal. There is therefore a need to specify the planning basis for the projects concerned in order to better understand the costs and possibilities for implementation. Furthermore, there is a need to establish good processes between government and local authorities in order to develop a good portfolio management approach in accordance with overall objectives and available funding. In order to comply with local wishes for the fastest possible start-up of development, the Ministry of Transport, in dialogue with the relevant local authorities, has decided to share the Urban Package Lower Glomma in phases so that mature projects can be started without waiting for further planning with the projects which are in any case longer in time.» The correct thing is that the Council of State has chosen to split the adopted package into several stages without the process of local authorities he says he wants. Other urban packages have been approved with a control-clear project. The new government has – contrary to what they opted for, that is, simpler and shorter planning time – chosen to make the processes even more demanding. They now require more detailed planning before the rest of the package can be promoted. This means new rounds of planning and political discussions, which unfortunately can lead to delays in the progress of important projects, such as the four-field road on Fv. 109 and new bridges over Glomma in both Sarpsborg and Fredrikstad. I regret to say that once again Lower Glomma feels that the Progress Party, as the only party that has been against locally, also in the government, seems to be countering locally adopted solutions from the political majority. The county council, the state road authority, the municipality of Fredrikstad and the municipality of Sarpsborg will, of course, do everything they can to make rapid local progress to get the rest of the package in place. However, they had needed the dialogue, as the Council of State says he wants, at an earlier time in order to avoid too much delay. I assume that the Council of State is now taking the initiative. It is true that the urban package, as adopted in Eastfold County and Municipalities, has a greater investment need than the toll system adopted can finance. This means that not all the projects desired can be realised. However, if the number of tolling stations is reduced, as said by Eastfold, Erlend Wiborg of the Progress Party, says that the Council of State is working for, it will reduce the income potential, and even fewer projects could be realised. As I started by saying, it is good that today's decision starts with the development of roads and collective solutions for Lower Glomma, but the government has to take seriously that there is now a deep concern locally that the government's treatment will change the foundation of the case, which has been passed through the local decisions, which will require new local political processes in the county and in the municipalities, with the risk of further delays. This concern must be taken seriously by the Council of State and continue to deal with the rest of the urban package. Only then will it be a real day of joy also in Eastfold, as it was for Buskerud in the previous case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e726	Now phase 1 of a urban package for transport in the Lower Glomma region of Eastfold begins. The priority is rv. 110 Ørebeck-Simo in Fredrikstad, in addition to a number of public transport measures and measures for walking and cycling in both Fredrikstad and Sarpsborg. Furthermore, funding is proposed for the planning of projects that are involved in the next phase of the urban package. Today, there are major problems of accessibility, which will also increase with expected large population growth in the region. There are also many road accidents due to today's unbridled traffic. The Progress Party believes that an important objective of the package is to reduce travel time for passenger transport and increase capacity towards and between urban centres. In addition, the predictability of freight transport in the area needs to be improved. In this case, too, the Progress Party is pleased that the majority of the Committee is committed to ensuring the effectiveness of the toll collection and that the costs of collection and financing are as low as possible. The Progress Party also considers that lower costs could benefit drivers through lower toll tariffs or shorter collection periods, and has a comment along with the Right. Finally, with regard to further work on the Urban Package Lower Glomma, funds are allocated to planning the next phase of the project, and some of the issues the Progress Party believes must be of high priority, among others. development of fv. 109 in Sarpsburg, and a new bridge over Glomma in Sarpsburg.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e739	The Christian People's Party is in favour of the initiative taken in the region, and we fully support the agreement negotiated locally. It is good that Phase 1 will be approved now. It will ensure the start of the toll-emitting project in Fredrikstad, rv. 110 Ørebeck-Simo, within the time limits foreseen for the local treatment of the Lower Glomma urban package. This project can now start in 2015 and will be completed in 2017. Phase 1 has a frame of 1.2 billion. kr, while the entire urban package Lower Glomma, as local decisions exist, has a framework of approx. 9 B.C.E. kr. That means that there must be several phases of City Package Lower Glomma for approval in Stortinget. Locally, the focus is on further progress, and it is now important to have sufficient clarifications, as stated in the proposal, in the planning basis before the next phase can be promoted. In concrete terms this applies to the approved municipal sub-plan for the new Sarpebru on fv. 118 will provide sufficient clarification or if approved regulatory plan is required. But this I have confidence that the department will follow up in a good way. I expect the Department to engage in a dialogue with local authorities and the State Road Administration on further progress. In Sarpsborg, it's fv. 109 Torbeckdalen–Tindlund, the toll triggering project. This is a slightly smaller project than the corresponding project in Fredrikstad. The Lower Glomma urban package is divided into several phases. I see that the Workers' Party and the Center Party are having problems with this, but I think it was right to deal with this matter now, i.e. phase one. Of course, this should not delay the whole package, of course not, but now you're getting started, and that's what's good. Then, of course, it is necessary to consider on a case-by-case basis whether it is appropriate to divide urban packages into smaller parts. Here one must be pragmatic in my opinion, and in the case of Lower Glomma, one can, for example. consider whether the next phase should contain both fv. 109 Torbeckdalen-Tindlund and new Sarpebru on fv. 118. Here one must be responsive to local desires. Another important point to clarify is whether tolls can be used for the operation of public transport. This is not part of phase 1, which is being dealt with today, but I note that the Ministry of Transport will clarify the prerequisite for such operating support in the further work on the urban package. If we are to give people a real opportunity between car and collective, it is absolutely necessary to ensure the economic basis for a strong expansion of the collective offer. Tolls for the operation of public transport are now, if this escalates, and if toll financing allows public authorities to withdraw financially. It is important that countries, in cooperation with local authorities, find good solutions for financing public transport, including: with an increased State exposure. I am pleased that the government, along with the Left and Christian People's Party, has a significantly more offensive willingness to support public transport in and around urban centres than the previous government had. But summed up: the urban package adopted today is a good thing, it's good for the region. The Christian People's Party supports what is here, and then we look forward to the rest of the Lower Glomma package being put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e758	The center party is positive to the local commitment that has led to the setting up of the City Pack Lower Glomma. This is a people's region with two major cities, Sarpsborg and Fredrikstad. The Committee has just been travelling in Eastfold and has both seen and heard about the challenges facing traffic management. There is a great need to address the traffic challenges, and there is a great need to facilitate better and attractive collective provision. Another thing – in addition to the collective offer – is to think of access parking at a connecting point, which can mean that not everyone has to drive as far as some do to park the car to possibly take the train. There's a limit on how long you want to drive before you get there, so to think about the driveway parking in the further work I think is also incredibly important. As I said, this is a region how many journeys by car because it is most prepared for it today. In addition to an attractive collective offer, the Centre Party considers it important to facilitate more times and bikes, not least because Sarpsborg and Fredrikstad are appointed as bicycle cities. Then it becomes important that you also think about how to intensify the work to get to it. As mentioned by both the case rapporteur and several others, Citypackak Lower Glomma is divided into several phases, and sometimes we recognize that it is necessary because you have to solve this in such a way. But what's important for the Center Party is to help ensure that you don't delay the whole package by splitting it up. Finally, there is no doubt that this city package is needed. There are a lot of good measures that you have managed to negotiate. It's a start – a positive start – and it's important to be able to realize the whole thing quickly. So congratulations to Østfold – that’s a good start, and then we’ll all contribute to this fully realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e771	It is gratifying that a unanimous biging joins in this matter as well. It is important to improve road and traffic conditions in the Lower Glomma region. Providing better roads, better bridge connections, better public transport and better walking and cycling conditions are important to make a large community work well. Both Fredrikstad and Sarpsborg show that they are growing, there are attractive places to live. Then we have to make sure that the growing population not only feels that yesterday's roads are what is governing, but that the infrastructure of the region is actually being built. I find it interesting to hear from the representatives of the Workers' Party that they point out that this debate has been going on for many, many decades, but owes to today's government that something has taken a month longer than you want. I think we should remember the perspectives here, and we should also see what's the basis for dividing this urban package into phases. It's precisely because this government, and this majority of the Christian People's Party and the Left, want to realize this as soon as possible. When we see that a city package cannot tell us how Sarpebrua should be, how much it costs, and how many of the projects will cost, normal practice would have to say that the whole package should wait. That would have meant that all the projects had been waiting. We think it's important to get started on what's quality-proof, what we know how to build, and what we know how much to cost. That's why you divide into stages – not to delay, but just to keep good progress, and that's what we're experiencing. Together with the rapporteurs in these urban areas, together with the rapporteur-general and not least with industry, we have discussed these issues many times: what is possible now – to get started? What are some things you need to work on to plan – precisely to estimate costs, benefits and physical design? I feel that after these meetings the business community in Sarpsborg and Fredrikstad have gone out and said that this is good, and that they do not suspect any political training. This has to do with finding good solutions. Then I think it's a little sad when the Workers' Party's representative tries to create a game around this rather than listening to the neutral business players who say, "You know what, this is about practical solutions." I choose to deal with all the constructive actors in this debate and I am pleased that we can now get on with important road projects, important efforts on public transport and important road and cycle routes. We now start by prioritizing the project rv. 110 Ørebeck-Simo in Fredrikstad. We prioritise a number of public transport measures and measures for walking and cycling both in Fredrikstad and in Sarpsborg. Then it is important that we continue to work on detailed planning of the further actions that will come later. I'm going to promise that we're going to advance the next phase as soon as it's possible at all, in cooperation with local authorities, local road transport and local business. This is building cities, building housing and working areas, and it's the majority of today's population very, very busy. I also want to remind you that there is a lot of other exciting happening for this region. Intercity development is important, because it is about those who choose to live in the Lower Glomma region being able to easily reach them, for example. Large Oslo to be able to work there — and vice versa — so that different parts of the business are better connected through fast and good transport. I would encourage the Workers' Party to take a discussion with itself about the debate we are now seeing, whether the beginning of delaying work on the Folloban tunnel helps to strengthen or weaken the work of building the intercity section of Østfold. The signals now coming from some in the Workers' Party, which are not contradicted by others, will help weaken the Lower Glomma region in getting intercity connections to the rest of the East. I believe that the debate is much more important than trying to doubt the process that has been in this matter. I note that the business community supports what we propose. I say a thousand thanks to Stortinget, who has dealt well with this matter. I just want to remind the Workers' Party that this matter was actually promoted in the harvest session, as promised, and it will be dealt with in the spring session. I think this is also evidence that the Storting is doing its job in a good way – and I appreciate it very much – so that we can go on realising the content that is now being adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e794	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e797	The Lower Glomma urban package is a long-term project in which local and regional politicians have made courageous political choices, which businesses in the region have put themselves behind. The debate shows that there is a consensus here that rapid progress is important. But when the Council of State from Stortinget's pulpit says that workers' party representatives with their statements are involved in such a doubt about the intercity expansion, I have to ask the Council of State to describe in more detail what he means then. That's what he ended his post with.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e802	The size decision was made a short time ago since the completion of the Folloban, where one says that the Folloban tunnel should be a fast-track tunnel without any stop. Now I register that local workers' party representatives in Stortinget, with the support of party leader Gahr Støre, have been out and said that a station should be built in this tunnel. Those who have done the investigation, Norconsult, say that now we should have a KVU process for the tunnel and the possibility of a station. A KVU usually takes one to two years, one shall also, if appropriate, draw up a control plan, and then, if appropriate, one shall begin to build. This means that the contracts that are now being concluded will have to be iced up with its liability. This means that if someone chooses the solution that the Workers' Party is now starting to sketch, which the Workers' Party itself chose away in 2010 when they were in government, the Folloban will not be a fast track anymore, it will be a normal path. One will also have a solution that professionals say is worse than if one rather uses the Eastfold Railway as a solution for this region.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e808	When the Council of State is challenged that he was unable to present this matter to the expectations of the region, and has chosen to do so in a phased development, which stands in stark contrast to the political rhetoric about a more coherent and efficient development of the transport systems, the Council of State is thus beginning to talk about a completely different matter, where the Workers' Party – the Workers' Party's Local Team – should have said something. All right. Locally, they're worried in the Lower Glomma region, and they would've wanted better dialogue in advance. What assurances can the Council of State give in this matter, as we are discussing in Stortinget today, about the further progress?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e815	First of all, the representative Kjerkol himself took up the Folloban tunnel in his first question, and I answered it. But I am very happy to answer the question we are now dealing with, namely Lower Glomma. There I have assured from the pulpit that we are doing what we can to ensure good progress. That is also why we have split this plan – to promote the projects that are ready for potting, rather than to sit and wait for everything. When even the rapporteur in Sarpsborg admits that he does not know how much a new Sarpebru will cost, what it will look like and how it will be built, this in itself indicates that planning has not come far enough. Normally, in such processes, one would wait the entire package. I think that's unsustainable. That's why I'm splitting it up, so that what's clear can be built, and what's not now clear can be investigated further with a view to getting started as soon as possible. It's a way of ensuring progress on the important things, so that you don't delay the package altogether. Here is a package that should have been realized over many, many years. Now we make sure that we keep progress on the things that were in the queue first, without having to delay other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e824	My question was which assurances the Council of State can give for the further progress, and it did not answer the Council of State. He said that you start with this first phase. Neither was the representative of Kjerkol who entered the Folloban. It was the Council of State that did in a context that the Council of State itself must stand for. I will therefore ask the question again, because here local businesses are very concerned about the further progress. Local authorities must run their planning processes, and they could intend to have better dialogue in advance, so that they could limit this in line with the rhetoric they have heard the government wants to show behind. So I ask again, what assurances can the Council of State give for the further progress?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e831	I mentioned in my second answer that we want progress as soon as possible. That means we're working closely, and I also said that in my post. We work closely with the local actors, both the rapporteur, the weigher and others, to ensure that a planning process on the other sections is carried out in the other projects, so that one gets them delivered to the Stortinget and is given a decision. So far there are none of the announced projects that are delayed as a result of that breakdown, but that means that if we had done as usual, waited with the whole package, then a few delays would occur. So I also believe it is natural that when one discusses such things, just as when we discussed the development of the E134 Damåsen–Saggrenda, you should not just see the Kongsberg region isolated, but see what that road means for the South-West and the South-East. In the same way, I think it is important to have visions for the entire eastern fold area, and not least for the Lower Glomma region, to show not only what the different small sections of the road in the urban areas mean, but how intercity is involved and draws that region into the Oslo area. That's when I say it's worrying when the Workers' Party is trying to train the progress of that project.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e838	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e843	It's a happy day, as I see it. I took part in that decision in Fredrikstad City Council many years ago, too, so I know what they meant locally. Well, at least I want to express it, we're there now. We're where the government actually chooses to say that we have implementation power, and we want to get a good solution for the region. When the Council of State says that he wants to see it as a whole and make good planning, it is primarily about quality assurance. The challenge for the region is that you have had long processes, and you are now in a situation where you actually get implemented. As many have pointed out, many live in the region. It's a growing region, and it's the fifth largest urban area. The main road network in the Lower Glomma region has significant accessibility problems, and that means a lot of traffic problems. It is also serious that it has resulted in transit traffic from the national road network going to urban streets during the rush periods, with the challenges it brings. The vulnerability of the transport system is high. This also applies to bus and other commercial services. The Glomma provides a barrier to local traffic. It is a strong desire to start developing the highest priority projects in the package as quickly as possible. Everyone agrees. On the other hand, what I think is quite essential is that you actually have a phased division and quality assurance part by part, and no one has claimed that it will necessarily take longer, but there is something about the quality assurance of what you're doing. In this way, I know that the Council of State has good will in terms of this becoming a package with which the region is satisfied. The Lower Glomma region is an important growth area for business and research, but if this development continues, it depends on good accessibility. This also applies in relation to port development. Transport of goods by sea is important and requires good port solutions. Most would argue that road, rail, ports and public transport should be seen in the context. That is something I also agree with. First of all, it provides comprehensive solutions, but it also gives food developers predictable framework conditions. The Lower Glomma region has entrepreneurs who want to invest capital in new industries, who want to take social responsibility and participate in important urban development work. But it requires close cooperation on common goals, national and local. The government wants to invest in industrial development, research, care technologies and international cooperation. The Lower Glomma region has all the prerequisites for contributing to this work, but it requires a good infrastructure. I'm absolutely sure the government will deliver in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e860	This is a lengthy case, an over-mature case, and it has been potable for many years. It is a good thing for the whole region, and it is important for both freight and passenger transport. When the good is said, I want to give some reflections back to what I heard from the Workers' Party and the representative Irene Johansen say. It is such that this proposition was promoted in the autumn of 2014, not in the spring of 2015. It was promoted on 19 December last year, and that's the harvest session. The second is that the representative also claims that there has been no contact with local authorities, and with shame to report, I have to say that it is wrong. There have been repeated meetings with rapporteurs and political authorities, to a greater extent – I think – than I have experienced in the last eight years, and I have been part of this political landscape for a long time. In addition, as the representative also said, the business community claims that this is a training of a transport package in the Lower Glomma region. The business community has given clear feedback that they feel that the government is just giving priority to Lower Glomma, and they are well pleased with the development that is now taking place. For Østfold – Lower Glomma, but also the whole region – is part of the metropolitan area. Then the train, road and sea and port hang together carefully, and I find it very sad that the Labour Party representative has used this matter once again to promote a political game. Now, when the government splits this package, it is to gain control of progress, to get control of costs, and this need has been there for the previous eight years. It is the case that there has been insufficient work, and there has been too little control, in terms of progress and basic work, but also in terms of cost and cost control. When the rapporteur in Sarpsborg must say that we cannot build up Sarpebrua because we do not know how much it costs, it goes without saying that we cannot deal with the Community's resources for the sake of progress. Then we have to take control of it, so that we can develop and ensure quality progress. As far as training is concerned, I am surprised at the fact that the Workers' Party locally in Oslo is actually proposing to turn it into a local railway section with its own station in the middle of a tunnel, and that it will not be the high-speed railway that Stortinget has actually foreseen. I hope that the Workers' Party is in total thinking and is not contributing to the four-year delay of a transport project that is important nationally but also regionally for Østfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e875	I thought that I should not take the floor in this matter, but when the minister starts kicking the Labour Party, as he tries here, I am sorry to have to. I think it is at least in place to make both the assembly and the matter aware that those who have been with and tried to help get this matter up quickly to go, not necessarily his own party locally – probably rather vice versa. Because we know, all of us who have followed this case – we were also visiting and looked at the importance of it – that when the Workers' Party says that we want to have a complete case, it is not because we do not want this to be put in place as soon as possible. It's to make sure that the progress is what it was supposed to be. When you come up with a proposal for fragmentation, you can ask yourself the question of what it will lead to. At least we know that the Progress Party locally has clearly been against going into this project, because of the tolls. It was perhaps one of the biggest issues they ran on in the local election campaign, and, of course, there, as in a lot of other places, they were out there with a lifting break to the voters. So I think maybe the minister should calm down a little bit when it comes to shooting, when we know how his party itself has acted locally in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e882	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e896	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e903	As the President explained, there are amendments to the Road Traffic Act in order to obtain the right of detention of vehicles for the purpose of securing sanctions and the right of use of vehicle immobilisation devices. The Committee has been very united in its treatment. It is really only positive statements from a unanimous committee that this is an important measure. We've had good, healthy discussions. We asked the Department a question about the possibility of having something similar in the Professional Transport Act. We received a positive response from the Council of State, which said that it had been worth considering, but they did not want to delay the processing of this home, which will be in the Road Traffic Act. But you make further assessments. This has been included in the Committee’s position — which is unanimous — and requests that the Stortinget be returned on a later occasion with assessments relating both to illegal cabotage operations and to the Professional Transport Act. I would like to thank the Committee for a very fine attitude towards doing what is best to get a good process in the context of the decision we are going to take today, and also to point forward to the measures that the Committee is committed to, to ensure that it goes right in the transport industry as such. Just a few comments beyond that. It is important to have cleanliness in the transport industry. We have had some cases that have shown that there is a need to have something tighter grip to stop those who do not want to comply with Norwegian law and law, as this case is about. The Council of State explained in the first case we were dealing with, a little bit about other types of issues that are under preparation. I think it's a good idea for the Committee to take a positive view that you have a position where you're tightening up the requirements a little bit. There has been an increasing number of years of imports of goods from trailers where the driver may not have brought what is necessary — neither the regulation of the head nor technical equipment, so there is a need to tighten up the measures. Norwegian transport industry has been very positive about following closely, because they have seen that there is a competitive disadvantage when people have the chance to run away from any fine, such as that. I'm talking about here. This is a good thing, on which the Committee unanimously concludes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e918	The extension of vehicle detention rights, as proposed in this case, will result in the refusal of more drivers to proceed after a breach of road traffic legislation. It will also result in additional fines being paid, and with this an important contributor to increasing road safety on Norwegian roads and balancing competition in the transport industry. I would like to point out other good measures that the government has taken to create safer conditions on the roads. More border controls have been carried out. We have been required for winter tyres on heavy duty cars for both towing vehicles and trailers, and there is a requirement for mandatory bombing. In addition, work is now being done on the possibility of winter driving licences. But every day hundreds of life-threatening wagon trains roll over Norwegian border crossings. They drive themselves stuck in the snow on a smooth lead, precisely because many are not spared for the Norwegian wintering. Important roadways are blocked too often, and this costs a lot in time and money for the transport industry. In addition, it causes many dangerous situations. This takes place despite information campaigns, several controls, higher fines and new regulations requiring pattern depths and chains. Experience has shown that the collection of fines imposed on foreign drivers is far more difficult than on permanent residents in the Nordic region. This means that one does not hit, and we do not get the desired effect on the foreign drivers and professional drivers with the sanctions we have today. When we know that a growing proportion of transport work in Norway is carried out with heavy vehicles with foreign drivers, it is particularly important that the sanctions work. The changes we are proposing today in Section 36(b) of the Road Traffic Act are incredibly important changes – not only to wait for a judgment or to pass a decision, but also to apply where a fine or fee has been issued. Extending the rights to regional road offices and Customs are important changes. That right of detention shall be available irrespective of the country in which the driver of the vehicle resides. Experience has shown that some drivers do not respect decisions taken by the control authorities. There is a need for further penalties. To ensure the implementation here, mechanical or electronic devices are very good aids. I want to mention specifically the wheel lock, which is a violently effective fuse in this way. Finally, I would like to highlight the importance of the proposed changes, precisely to increase road safety for all of us living here in Norway, and to ensure a level playing field between Norwegian and foreign operators in the transport industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e935	For many, many years, one has been able to read in the paper how combinations of vehicles that are not good and safe for the roads, are still on the roads, how combinations of vehicles that are stopped one place, and get packing for not having the brakes in order, the day after can be seen running in a completely different part of the country and obviously have not respected the driving bans and regulations they have received. The police and Vegvesenet have not had the powers they need to stop the cars and ensure that they pay their fines instead of leaving the country. There has been a lot of frustration among most people who have read about this in the media, and no one has grasped it. The road system, police and Customs often detect faults and defects on the vehicle. Sometimes it is enough with a ban on use, sometimes getting a fine or fee, but one has not had enough powers to enforce this properly. They'll get that now. It is important for road safety, it is important for the competitive situation in the transport market, and it is important simply because it makes it easier to collect fees and fines imposed on drivers currently living outside the Nordic region. There it is difficult to recover the money, and many of them run off without making up for the costs they have incurred, and then get a competitive advantage over others. I guess it was NRK Nordland that showed that one has 200 million. kr outstanding in tolls from foreign drivers. It's not a situation that we've been satisfied with. We have therefore promoted this proposal, and I am very pleased that the Storting unanimously adopts it, and that even one says that it is a good measure. It should have been completed a long time ago, but now finally the Road Service gets the powers they need. Being able to withhold a vehicle until the fine is paid will help to improve the efficiency of the collection. It will also ensure that non-resident vehicles coming to Norway know that they will be stopped and will have a cost. Then they have to start counting on their prices in a completely different way from today, they have to bring vehicles in better condition, and they have to be better equipped for Norwegian traffic conditions, simply because it is about having fair competition in the market. We know that even if you can impose fines, there are some situations in which you get a driving ban because of poor technical condition. There are many stories, including from Vegvesenet, that cars that get a driving ban one day run off and are on the road again as soon as the control is over. By using the wheel lock, a physically stopped the car, and it does not go any further. The decisions the Storting is now making, are really simple grips, but will have great effects, and it is very good that one has such a unanimous uproar about and positive mention of it. We're going to make sure that the Road Service gets the means they need to implement this. This, therefore, comes in addition to a sharp increase in control activities, a strong tightening of a number of other rules, which means that vehicle trains – heavy vehicles on Norwegian roads – have more fair competitive conditions, simply because more of them have to take more account of the same costs and the same rules than has been the case up to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e950	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e964	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e971	The representative proposal we have for consideration today, from the staging representatives Jenny Klinge, Gerd Eli Berge and Heidi Greni, deals with the establishment of surveillance cameras on all mobile Norwegian border crossings. The Committee on Transport and Communications refers to the draft representative and attached the opinion of the Ministry of Finance to the Council of State on the matter. The system of smart surveillance cameras – ANPR, Automatic number plate recognition – is already in place and is an important tool to strengthen border control. Today, ANPR surveillance camera is used at 15 border crossing points and there are concrete plans to set up at a further seven border crossing points, including two ferry terminals. The Customs and Fee Directorate was commissioned to investigate — and have investigated — what is needed to strengthen border control. That report was delivered in November 2014 and has several recommendations, one of which is to establish ANPR at all mobile border crossing points. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, point out that the Government will now assess the recommendations of the Directorate and come back to this point, including: in the context of the 2016 State Budget. Other aspects of the ANPR surveillance camera that will also be considered further are important data protection considerations and the issue of extending the storage time limit, which is currently one hour. On this basis, the majority of the Committee considers that the intentions of the proposers are well respected in the government's ongoing work and therefore proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol. The Committee's minority, the member of the Central Party, has announced another proposal for a decision, and I expect the Central Party to explain its views.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e992	The smart surveillance camera system, known as ANPR, is an established and important tool to strengthen roadside surveillance and is already in use at 15 border crossing points. There are already plans for the extension of seven new border crossing points, two of which are ferries. Cross-border crime is an increasing problem, where we see that it is smuggled more of both goods, animals — even humans — and drugs. It is also recorded that this has had a more professional impact, and there is a lot of money in organized crime. Therefore, increased use of technological aids will make this work more effective and will be absolutely necessary to improve control. The full establishment of ANPR on all mobile border crossings and ferry terminals with calls from abroad is estimated at 110 million. SEK in investments and will have an annual operating cost of 20 million. kr. Extended use of ANPR will be the most cost-effective way to increase control and knowledge of cross-border activity, says the Directorate for Customs and Charges. An important premise for the ANPR system to increase knowledge is the ability to store the information. Today, a maximum of one hour of storage is allowed. The Customs and Charges Directorate recommends that this be increased to one year. This must then be weighed against security and privacy. In this case, it has not been decided on the extended storage period, but asked the government to consider this in more detail. I think the directorate's recommendation needs to be stressed, but I'm a little worried about the recommendation that's at stake – about how the government will handle it with storage time. When we look at other technological aids that have been put into use with great effect, we unfortunately see that today's Minister of Transport and Government has stopped the use of this. Then I think about the use of the distance-ATK, average measurement using photo boxes, which is also a useful electronic tool. Here today's government, with the Advance Party and the Right, intends to stop all planned projects, even if it can be demonstrated that you almost reduce the number of people killed and injured by 50 pst. by putting it into service — not least in long tunnels. That's why it's good that you now want to use this tool, which I understand everyone agrees on. The working party is looking forward to us getting these surveillance cameras in place as soon as possible, and not least to quickly clarifying the storage time, which I have not registered, that someone has said something clearly about today – perhaps with the exception of the Center Party, which has signaled that they are skeptical for an extended storage period. But as I said, the Directorate is very clear that they should be able to take advantage of this knowledge, it can't be one hour's storage time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1003	There is a broad consensus in the Committee that ANPR, automatic identification of number plates, is an effective tool to strengthen border control, and therefore I am not going to make a very long post. The system is already in place at 15 border crossing points, and the customs and charging seat has concrete plans to extend this to seven new border crossing points, two of which are ferry terminals. According to a letter from the Minister of Finance to the Committee, the Government will assess this in the context of the 2016 budget, to which the majority of the Committee has agreed. The experience gained by the Customs and Charges Directorate about the use of ANPR so far is good. It turns out to be an effective tool for picking items for intelligence and control history control. In this sense, this is a cost-effective measure to strengthen border control and which will clearly be able to prevent and detect organised crime. In addition, an overview of the control history will facilitate the detection of illegal vehicles, which will have an impact on road safety improvement and the detection of illegal driving. The rate of duty and charge has today the possibility to store data from ANPR for a maximum of one hour. The ETA indicates that it may be desirable to extend this storage time to one year in order to provide a better basis for carrying out strategic and tactical analyses. An extended storage time will, of course, provide a better opportunity to detect continuous patterns and assess objects for future passages. There is no doubt an advantage with extended storage time for control purposes. However, I would like to point out that an extension of the storage period must necessarily be opposed to privacy considerations, and I record that the government will come back to this when it deals with any extension of the scheme with ANPR. The government multi-doubles the work of checking the heavier vehicle. Good tools such as ANPR are important for effective and targeted controls. We see that increased control activity produces results, illegalities are detected, road safety is improved, and it seems preventive. It is therefore important that the government is so clear that one should continue to strengthen control activities, and an extension of ANPR will be an important part of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1018	Land borders have a key function when it comes to preventing and fighting crime. If we can effectively stop current people and objects on the border, we can avert a lot of crime in the country. In recent years, seizures of drugs have increased considerably. The smuggling of alcohol and cigarettes, other objects and animals is increasing. Even more smuggling is a social problem, which we have a political responsibility to clean up. The center party is concerned about what's going on, and takes this situation for granted. We get to the right about the lack of resources in customs, which means that they have problems with having daily staff at some of the most trafficked border stations in Norway. So there's a reason to ask the question, what about all the unmanned border stations? The time has come to grips. In the presentation by the Central Party, which is the starting point for this debate today, it means using technology with smart surveillance cameras not just single places, but at all border crossings across the country. Norway should be an open country in most ways, but this is about how we can effectively stop those who come here to land to engage in cross-border crime. This is crime that increases both in scale and seriousness. With this in mind, it is necessary that we use available technologies and methods that can be effective tools against this type of crime. If we're going to fight crime effectively, we're going to depend on the customs and police being a few steps ahead of the criminal environment, not the opposite. The representative proposal takes this on board. The size is invited to participate in giving marshalls to the government that this should be a priority. There's no need to wait to establish smart surveillance cameras at all our borders. So what kind of functions do these cameras have? Well, they have a sign, so they recognize a sign, which means that a suspicious vehicle can be effectively unplugged. They will be able to recognise vehicles that have previously been used for criminal activity, and customs can look for other abnormal things at the vehicle. The need for effective border control will only be greater and bigger in the coming years. Cross-border crime will increase to an extent. If we're not willing to use technology to fight this, we're going to end up in a hurry. Norway has many border crossing points. Many states have border crossings, and we should not undermine the fact that many of the unmanned border crossings are used to smuggle illegal items into the country. When we have technology available, is there any reason why these unmanned border crossings should not be monitored? No, that's not it. It will be important to mount a camera at these transitions, so that an operating centre can monitor the activity and provide more targeted controls. Cameras mounted specifically in Eastfold have had a very positive effect. The measure should therefore be made a national measure. For the Center Party, this is an important matter. In our 2015 alternative state budget, we had introduced a full financing of such an investment on all Norwegian executable border crossings. I am disappointed that the majority of politicians in this room today will not give marshalls to the government. New distributions and analyses are an effective way to train a case, to avoid the economic consequences. But we must not forget that the intention of the action is to fight serious crime. Money spent in this area means large amounts of money saved in other areas. When it comes to storage time, which has also been mentioned in the debate, the Centre Party is clearly skeptical of an extension, but there are many alternative solutions between a year of storage time proposed and today's one hour. This makes it possible to find a good, practical solution to protect privacy at the same time. I take this into account the Center Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1056	The representative Jenny Klinge has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1059	This is a matter where there is quite a consensus that it is a sensible tool you discuss. So it's an increasingly used tool, and as the Minister of Finance's answer shows, it's used 15 places. Several places it's under planning. So the big drama is not in this. I also point out that the answer from the Minister of Finance shows that we are assessing it further, and that is in line with the proposal that is being put forward here. I myself have been to several border stations and put the system into use. The road service has put it into service along many roads in Norway, and it is a very good tool to ensure that both customs, road services and others do targeted checks when they are out – that one stops those cars or vehicles that pose a risk, which one has a history of, instead of once in a while stopping cars that have no faults, that have all their things in order. This will also be an instrument that at the borders will enable customs or others to see which cars are coming, and to check against their databases whether these are cars that have been used in criminal activities earlier, and have been registered by the Road Administration in that way, or similar. So it's working on it. It's progress, and then the roll-out will take place gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1070	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1073	In this Document 8, the retention time of information is an important element. Today, as I said, the Customs and Fee Set is allowed to store the data from automatic number plate reading for a maximum of one hour. The Customs and Fee Setaton says that an important premise for this system to provide increased knowledge is to extend the possibility of storing data further in order to carry out analyses at strategic and tactical level. The Directorate even recommends increasing storage time to one year. This must, of course, be assessed against important data protection considerations. My question to the Minister is then, because we are to a large extent putting this into his hands: how does the Minister address this premise from the directorate of an extension to one year of storage, and when will this be clarified?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1078	I think it is most appropriate here to just quote the last section of the answer from the Minister of Finance to the Transport and Communications Committee. The letter is dated 5 December 2014. It says: ‘The Ministry is now considering the submission from the Directorate and will come back to it among others in the State budget for 2016. We will also look at the proposal for storage time in cooperation with other responsible governmental authorities.’ So the government has responded to this and will return to the state budget for 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1089	I've read it, and it can be interpreted as one will come back to what concerns investment in the budget. But if it is interpreted in such a way that at the same time you want to clarify storage time, that is a clear and clear answer. But as I said in my post, we are well aware that the minister and the government have stopped the use of important electronic tools, and I was thinking in particular about – as I also mentioned – this with the distance ATK and arguments regarding privacy. In the light of that case, it is a pleasure to use this tool, but in the section-ATK the information is deleted as soon as you have passed, and you show that it has a great effect. So my question to the minister given that it is: is it that today's government in general will hold back with electronic traffic monitoring, or at least storage, or is it just the distance-ATK?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1098	Stretching-ATK is a completely different matter than what you're discussing here. We have been very positive about the use of automatic sign recognition systems precisely because it simplifies customs and, for my part, roadside control tasks. This means that drivers who repeatedly prove to have no problems with their vehicle or their driving behaviour will be able to drive past the control activities, while cars presenting a risk are stopped. It is an important way to take the dangerous vehicles or drivers in traffic for daily use, and that is what is important. So we have a very strong portfolio of instruments in the field of road safety. One of the most important steps we're doing is for example: to increase significantly the focus on road maintenance, so that road standards are good and thus do not contribute to creating dangerous situations. It costs a lot of money, and for me it's the most important grip, along with what we've discussed earlier today: control of car trains, etc. We now see that the numbers of accidents are going down – fortunately. We believe that our strategy is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1105	The representative, Kjell-Idar Juvik – for reply No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1108	A short follow-up question – since the Minister did not answer my question, I try again: Is the Minister positive about an extended storage time on this sign recognition monitoring?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1113	Then I can quote my first answer. The Minister of Finance writes: ‘We will also take a closer look at the proposal for storage time in cooperation with other responsible governmental authorities.’ So this answer comes from saying that we are going to come back to the matter in the 2016 budget. We can make a much larger debate on, among other things. the Data Storage Directive, but I think everyone knows that in terms of privacy rights and the like, most of the parties in this process are much more concerned with it than the questioner is. So that's probably a little bit of a disagreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1125	I appreciate many of the wordings in the answer letter from the Ministry of Finance, where the Council of State etc. says: ‘My representatives make a good proposal which shows that they are committed to strengthening border controls.’ This is quite correctly perceived. We see the importance of border control and consider it important to provide timely advice on possible and relevant measures. How high will the government give priority to the ‘smart surveillance camera’ theme, and my Council of State realistically puts this in place in 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1137	Firstly, I do not want to prejudice the budget procedure of Stortingen for next year. It is the Storting that determines the appropriations. But there is no doubt that this government has had very good experience with the increased use of the sign recognition system as we have rolled it out. I would also like to point out that this is a good proposal, and that is in line with the way the government thinks. I would like to remind you that the investigative work that has been done, and to which one also refers in the proposal, was given by Minister of Finance Siv Jensen on 28 March 2014, i.e. under the current government. So strengthening border control is a work that today's government and the majority are engaged in, and I'm very happy that the Center Party also shows the same commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1142	Once again, I would like to return to the letter from the Ministry of Finance, because there is evidence that the Riksaudition has recommended that the customs and fees set should acquire more systematic knowledge of the volumes of traffic at the unmanned border crossings as a basis for prioritising control resources. I understand that the biggest ones are the most important ones, but at the same time one must say that in this context not much traffic is so relevant. Who and what passes will be so important, at least when preventing crime — and in any case, it is a cost-effective measure. Does the government think that the smallest border crossing points, those with the least traffic, are less relevant when establishing smart surveillance cameras?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1149	When you have a lot of border crossings and a few places where you're going to start rolling it out, it's natural that you start where there's the most traffic and thus the greatest opportunity to discover illegal activity. This does not mean that there is no illegal activity where there is less traffic, but it is about prioritizing where to start. I think it's right to start where there's the greatest chance of discovering things. But one also knows that in criminal gangs there are smart people, so they'll try to adapt, so they can raise your risk of getting caught is the least. It suggests that when trying to seal a system, a non-negligible route cannot be overlooked, because then a criminal traffic may be at risk of selecting precisely those routes. That is why it is important that we continue to work on roll-out, and the Minister of Finance has also announced this in his letter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1154	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1170	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and six lines of response after contributions from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. As far as the President can see, the President-in-Office is not in the Chamber. That means that the President gives the floor to the representative Fredric Holen Bjørdal, who stands as no. 2 on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1179	The background to this proposal for a representative is that investigations over several years have shown that there are some professional groups that are particularly vulnerable to election and/or threatens to exercise power in their work. For example, a 2009 Fafo report shows that 60 pst. have experienced this during the last year. There is nothing to suggest that these numbers have fallen since 2009. So many figures indicate that for quite a number of employees, there is a choice on the job on our day-to-day basis. It violates the intention of the Work Environment Act to ensure a health-promoting working environment that provides full security against physical and mental harm. Subsequent years of serious events, e.g. Nav and child protection have updated this, and it shows that additional measures are needed. Being exposed to violence and threats can lead to serious physical, mental and social consequences for workers. In many cases this will affect your working environment. 137 000 workers are selected or threatened at least once a month, according to the Labour Inspectorate. Being exposed to this is not a private matter, but a work environment challenge that must be solved through close cooperation between the social partners. This is fully in line with the Work Environment Act, which says that workers should be protected from the risks, threats and unsatisfaction that arise from contact with others at work as far as possible. There are many professions that have chosen and threaten as a work environment challenge. The most vulnerable are those who are engaged in the exercise of powers, such as police and prison services, workers who handle valuables, health professionals and others in the care and service sector. Twice as many women as men report about power and threats. There are some industries that have a negative development. For example, the number of recorded events in Nav was almost fourfold between 2010 and 2013. Nav has itself presented a number of measures that should be considered in order to improve safety. Several membership organisations believe that they need to take action to improve the situation. This is part of the background that the Labour Party now has to put more measures into action by my government. That is why we are very pleased that a joint committee today is giving an important signal to the Council of State in this area. I would like to thank the whole Committee for its good cooperation – and a special thank you to the spokesman for her contribution to achieving unity. Today, the National Councils are advised by the Labour and Social Committee that a regulation of the Labour Environment Act on choice and threats can be an important tool for meeting these challenges. I believe that such a regulation is the most important measure in the proposal for a representative we are discussing today. Therefore, it is very gratifying that the Committee is in agreement with this recommendation. Sweden has had such a regulation since 1993. If we introduce the corresponding in Norway, it will be possible to put in place systematic, holistic analyses of security work. There will be a systematic tool for employers that will help to address the seriousness of the job-seekers in demanding work situations. Such a regulation will place the responsibility for security measures and their distribution with employers. It must include all work where there is a risk of choice or threat. Furthermore, such a regulation must require employers to take care of all matters that are relevant to the choice or threat of choice and to implement the necessary measures, such as: What kind of staffing the workplace needs to do, or what kind of competence, how work needs to be organised, and, on the other hand, how the physical environment must be – in addition to an assessment of the competence and ability of the workplace to solve the problems, or whether there is such a risk that there are others who need to be involved. Safety equipment to quickly call for assistance in hazardous situations, strict risk assessment requirements for work alone and responsibility for good follow-up of elected and threatened workers are also central to any new regulation. Probably there are many cases where the absence and disability could have been avoided if the follow-up had been better and more systematic. The entire committee has some concerns about the challenge here. We are now waiting for measures from the government. It's going to be very interesting to right how the Council of State will follow up this committee setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1203	Today is a good day. Today is a good day for a political community that the Labour and Social Committee is. This is because we have been able to reach agreement where we can agree, through the work on the comments and through discussions on the proposal for a representative we are now discussing. I am very pleased, as the rapporteur-in-Office, and that is why I would like to start by thanking the Committee for its good cooperation, where we see that the challenges facing us in the professions of violence and threat are challenges that we all see, and concerns that we all share. It is then natural to thank the representatives for promoting the proposal and for raising a very important matter and a very important area. Many of the heaviest jobs that we depend on to do in a welfare state, and which we depend entirely on to do with a high level of competence and professional security, are within occupational groups and work that can often be linked to the risk of threats and violence. This applies to those who work in the Nav office and who are case handlers every day, to those who patrol our streets and who are to move out feeling insecure and vulnerable to crime, and to those who are to take care of those who are not necessarily able to care for themselves and who may be at risk of their surroundings – such as children with child protection, people with developmental disabilities, etc. It's an industry I myself have worked within, where I know the challenges well, and where I also know how it can work on the body while not being cared for. That is why I am very pleased that we have been able to concentrate on the point also raised by the Hearing Officers when we had a hearing on the matter, namely the need for a regulation – a clarifying regulation that can be a tool both for the employer and for the employee in order to secure those who need security and who are currently exposed to violence, threats and also an unacceptable working day. We have seen that there is a gender-based practice, where there is a difference between the safety of women-dominated industries and the human-dominated industries, and we see that there is greater security in regulation related to working with living than working with children. It is an injustice that the Committee sees as having to be corrected, for even those who work with people must have adequate protection in their working life. That is why I would say that it is a good day to be a politician when it comes to areas that need to bet, and that are such an important part of human life, precisely because tomorrow is going to be better for social workers, for policemen, for those who work in Nav, and for those who are the foot soldiers of the welfare state and are going to ensure us security when we need it. It has made a strong impression to follow with relatives, employees, people who have shared their experiences for a long time, and also on how to stand back powerless, because as a professional, you have wanted to do a good job, but still see that the framework you have for doing professionalism has not been safe enough. I'm glad we're about to do something about it. I am pleased that we are putting in an overall wish and an overall need for a regulation in the field, so that workers can go to work with greater security in the future, and so that employers can in the future get the tools they need to secure their employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1220	Unfortunately, in our society a number of workers are concerned about their own health and safety when they go to work. It shouldn't be like that. Some workers work in professions where they regularly come into contact with mentally unstable or sick people who are not always able to control their own actions. Some workers work in professions where they can come into contact with criminals who are willing to endanger the health and safety of others. Let me make it quite clear that the Progress Party believes that everyone has a right to work as safe as possible. Those who work as socionomists, caregivers, nurses, weights, child protection or the police need to be ensured better than is the case today. I think it is important to remember that work for a safer working environment can and should follow two main lines. The first is to find ways to reduce violence. The second is to make it easier and safer to deal with violence when it first occurs. Those who are mentally unstable and ill, and those who are in a life crisis or otherwise in a distressed situation, need better health care and other public services. It is clear that sick people who may be at risk to their own or others’ lives and health can and should receive help as soon as possible. Today many of them go and wait for help for a long time after receiving their referral. It is unsustainable and creates a society with increased risk. In the case of criminals, unfortunately, a small group of criminals are responsible for a large part of the crime. Therefore, greater resources should be put in place to secure society against them, and they pose an increased risk to workers such as police and sentinels, but also to others. There is a need to strengthen the investigation, prosecution authorities and criminal enforcement. In this way, criminals will increasingly realize that violence, it does not pay off. I would like to thank the proposers for addressing this important issue and for doing so constructively. We know that the challenges of violence and threats are nothing new. And even though the red-greens didn't get so much done while they even put in government, it's good to notice that we now have a total staggering behind the desire to do something in common.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1233	The proposers have raised a very important issue. Violence and threats of violence are a real problem and part of the everyday life of very many workers. In particular, sociologists, protectors, child protection educators, health professionals, such as nurses and caregivers, and police officers and sentinels are most vulnerable to violence and threats at work. As the representative of Holen Bjørdal also pointed out in his contribution, it appears in a Fafo report that as many as 60 pst. violence or threats of violence during the last year have been experienced by child-restraint workers and workers in housing for people with developmental disabilities. This trend has remained stable at such a high level since 2009. In addition, some very serious incidents have been reported. The most serious: when an employee was killed at a Nav office in Oslo in 2013, and the last case last fall when a night watchman was killed by a resident in the dwelling she was working in. It is worrying that so many report that they are exposed to violence and threats associated with the pursuit of their profession. The Working Environment Act is very clear in this area. It's in § 4-1: ‘The working environment in the establishment shall be fully sound on the basis of an individual and overall assessment of factors in the working environment that may have an impact on the physical and mental health and well-being of workers. The safety, health and work environment standard shall be developed and improved at all times in accordance with developments in society.» The law further states in § 4-3: ‘The worker shall, as far as possible, be protected from violence, threats and unlucky burdens arising from contact with others.’ It is important to take this seriously in vulnerable jobs. It is a management responsibility to be in the forefront, to capture signals of insecurity, to carry out risk assessments, to carry out protections with employees, trustees and protection officers. In the event of a risk, measures shall be put in place to protect workers from violence and threats. Unfortunately, some employees feel that this does not have enough attention and priority. Something has to happen before action is taken. My locality, Budstikka, recently wrote about someone working as a night shift in a nursing home for the mentally ill. He was subjected to assault and attempted killing with a knife on his guard two years ago. He got 17 stabs, one went in right by the eye. He was lucky; he didn't go blind and he survived. What came out after the attack, and as this night watch didn't know anything about, was that the resident who attacked him was reported for killing threats. The obligation of professional secrecy was used as a reason why this was not known to the staff who would look after and follow up the occupants of the dwelling. Today, the night shift has returned to work in the same dwelling, but since the incident, he has been concerned about pointing out that employees’ rights to a safe and secure job must go ahead of managers’ misunderstood interpretation of the subject matter of the obligation of professional secrecy. Because it is a managerial responsibility to protect employees from violence and threats, and to prevent serious incidents, necessary information and reporting on what might trigger and provoke a threat situation must emerge. It is part of the risk assessment and it is not a breach of professional secrecy. It is a management responsibility to ensure that the necessary measures are put in place, based on the risk involved. This could be done, for example, by: need physical protection, alert to call for assistance, training in conflict mitigation communication, increased manning during periods of increased risk, possibly increased crew on a permanent basis. The Committee carried out consultations during the examination of the proposal. Both the LO, the Joint Organisation, the Norwegian Association of Nursing Nurses and the Police Association were unanimous and clear that they have long wanted more attention on this topic, and that the government should consider drawing up its own regulation on the Work Environment Act on Violence and Threats of Violence, and what they said actually made an impression. There is a cross-political consensus in the Committee on this matter. More attention should be paid to these work environment challenges, and the Committee considers that there may be a need for a precise regulation of today’s law in relation to violence and threats, which has been addressed for a long time by organisations. The law is generally clear enough in this field, but a precise regulation would indicate that authorities consider the management of violence risk and psychosocial conditions to be of particular importance and that these factors should be equated with the more traditional physical work environment factors, which have already been given a separate regulation. The social partners shall have a real influence on this process in the future. That's a good signal. Preventing violence and threats of violence at work needs to be made more visible and taken more seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1261	It is an important topic that is being addressed here, and as many people before me have been involved, there is an overall committee that supports the need for a precise regulation in the Working Environment Act – and it is the centre party behind it. At the same time, a unanimous committee says: «Security at work is also a matter of good management.» I would like to add a few comments to that. We are faced with a position that has listed a variety of professional groups: socionomists, protectionists, child protection educators, nurses and police. There are both common features and differences between these occupational groups. It is clear that the regulations applicable to the police and the management exercised against the police must be different from those applicable to and exercised against socionomists, protectors and child protection educators. As far as the police are concerned, they are part of the emergency services, and not least in connection with the treatment of the Intst. 210 S for 2012-2013 in the Control and Constitutional Committee, which referred to the report of the Gjørv Commission, there was a broad discussion on the theme of ‘management’ in the preparedness organisations. There was a note from the then government parties, the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV, where one clearly addressed what is called operational management. This means that you must trust the person in the first line, and the person in the first line must have the necessary means – education, equipment, communication and training – so that you can do that job. And the overall level must rely on the person standing in the first line, and it must always be a broad communication, so that under the prevailing circumstances he can feel the necessary security. It is possible to learn from the discussion that was at that point with the Gjørv Commission — including for socionomists, protective caregivers, child protection educators and nurses. For – as I said – a precise regulation is important, but I do not think we should have such great faith in regulations and regulations that it can in practice replace having a good management and culture in an organisation, where one at different levels takes responsibility for ensuring that there are safe conditions. It is important to draw more attention to how the management and implementation of the work is carried out. ‘Management’ is not a unique concept or practice. Leadership refers to interaction between people, where some act and through their actions affect the behaviour of others. Someone is in charge, and others are in charge. There are certain relationships between people, but what is also understood as good management depends on the values desired, the tasks to be solved and the type of situation in which management must take place. In public organisations, such as: administrative organisations, where rule of law values are a high priority, where laws and regulations are to be observed, and where decision-making options are given mainly, the requirement – as mentioned above – is for good management other than that of a police organisation. However, there is a common denominator and an important learning point. It's that it's the management that's being exercised in the situation, that's crucial. It is therefore important to ensure initiative, creativity, ownership of work, sense of responsibility and thus a collective commitment. In this management, the so-called mission-based management, the intention is that the one with the best situational understanding should recognize the importance of being trained to act maritimely, but in line with the intent of the overall level. It is important to train to take initiatives and to act maritimely in new and unbridled situations — i.e. to stimulate a behaviour that can be characterised as developing the rightful person. The Centre Party will stress the importance of the release and use of experience from its staff by leaders. The first line of mission must be given authority and trust and encouraged to use their competence. At the same time, the people of the first line must be trained – as mentioned above – to ensure the performance of demanding tasks, and they must have equipment that is modern in order to solve them. In other words, specifying the regulation is important, but it is more important that in the public sector, management is preoccupied with developing the authoritative human being, so that the person in the situation has the support of his superior and always does what is necessary to get a safe working situation and to do a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1288	I would first like to highlight and thank the Workers' Party for their initiative on the issue of a safer working environment for workers in violent and threatened professions. I think it is an important and good attitude that has been presented. The 2009 Fafo report sheds light on some under-exposed issues in the labour market. Those who represent professions that meet and work with and for people who experience great challenges and upheavals in their own lives, whether psychological, physical, social or spiritual, are more likely to be exposed to violence and threats than other workers. How the professional actor meets the other, says a lot about human mind. It also reflects the level of performance of individual health workers in different areas, such as cultural sensitivity, disease, health and natural reaction patterns in humans in different crises and/or legal situations. Violence and threats are a way of communicating. Often it can come as a desperation over a situation, and as a reaction to your own feelings. Responses in the form of violence or threats may also be based on a disease where the situation is perceived as being inconclusive to the individual and thus provokes a reaction. My point is that no matter who the helper is, the fellow human being is to be met with respect. The other must feel met, seen and listened to. Then I believe that knowledge about the human being as a whole is of great importance, and how we communicate becomes essential. A safer working environment is much about eliminating risky situations and how we meet these challenges. I think everyone who works with people wants to be of support and help. At the same time, I think will alone is not enough. Help must be knowledge-based, and sufficient staff must be provided, who possess the required knowledge in the various workplaces, to meet the challenge. At the same time, there is a problem of unwanted part-time in the care professions today. It creates multi-stage unforeseeability and can be a contributing cause of negative experiences for both health care providers and beneficiaries. I myself am a municipal employee and have completed two further training courses after my basic training as a nurse. Both courses have cost me myself, while I have had to take leave without pay for a period of practice of more than two months in order to complete further training in mental health, despite the fact that my municipality wants to invest in and upgrade the knowledge in this area. Why am I saying this? Because it's not unique to me. There are few schemes where primary health services cover the costs of continuing education and training in the field of health. A number of schemes are about a specialist healthcare worker. Usually, you'll also earn something better working there. I think good management sees the value of contributing to knowledge development. The willingness and ability of employers to support and facilitate knowledge development will be of great importance here. There may be financial organisation for continuing training, there may be a forum for sharing knowledge among employees in the various departments and institutions, it may be to set aside time for reflection and guidance among employees, it is also about limiting the wear and tear of employees, reducing stressful episodes in the form of having sufficient staff who possess the necessary professional knowledge of work at all times. In order to be an attractive job attracting knowledgeable employees, pay and working time arrangements will be important. Left wants to increase the specialisation of health professionals in primary health services in order to increase the quality of supply by raising the quality of individual work and providing more tools to meet challenging situations. Communication is the tool we intend to use to communicate thoughts, feelings, opinions, experiences and more with each other. My claim is that the actual meeting and experience of the meeting between the professional helper and the recipient of any assistance will be of great importance. I think the right knowledge promotes understanding and cooperation. In the Left, we believe that knowledge can prevent violence and threats and thus create a safer working environment for workers in vulnerable professions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1307	Let me first of all thank the rapporteurs for putting an important proposal on the agenda, and I would also like to thank the Committee for considering an important proposal. Let me also repeat what I have said earlier: Every employee should feel safe when he goes to work, is at work, and when he goes home from work. We all have a responsibility to facilitate a good and safe job to go to and work in. Therefore, it is important for me to stress that the Labour Inspectorate has a high quality of its work in this regard, and they give it a very high priority. Only in 2014 have they carried out around 400 inspections targeted at violence and threats in the workplace. It is also true, as some members of the Committee point out, that there are some groups that are more vulnerable. I then think it is important to repeat – as I have said from this speaker – that employers too have a clear responsibility to ensure that jobs are safe, that the necessary preparations are made and that the necessary mechanisms are in place to minimise violence and threats in each workplace. Let me take an example to substantiate what I really mean: Many Nav employees experience violence and threats in their working life. Then it is important to make simple, clear grips, such as: To avoid and reduce the risk of standing alone and being exposed to violence and threats. It will also be important that, in the Nav context, you have good retreat spaces that allow you to get out of a difficult situation in a simple and good way. Such things are important for the employer to facilitate. I know that the Labour Inspectorate is also following up in a good way. I am pleased that there is also a discussion about whether more action should be taken, new action, other measures to clarify and improve efforts, and this debate has largely focused on whether regulatory regulation should be applied. I do not exclude regulatory regulation, but I recall that the Labour Environment Act has clear provisions on how to prevent and who is responsible for preventing violence and threats at work. I am very pleased that the working group that has been set up has gone through this in a good way and has done a good job. I am also very pleased that the Labour Inspectorate now, after the working group report has been presented, is taking part in the Cooperation Forum with the social partners in order to further assess whether to have a regulation, how to draw up any regulation, and what it will look like. I look forward to that work. I think it is positive that you put up with this kind of follow-up, and that the Labour Inspectorate, who is going to supervise, follows up in a good way and does this in the right way, and that you have a good cooperation and get down to the cooperation of the parties to find out how to proceed. I am glad that the work is done, and then I will wait for the Labour Inspectorate and the recommendations of the PCF. When they are on my table, I will quickly decide how to proceed. It will also be natural to inform Stortinget and connect Stortinget in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1326	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1330	I thought the council held a good post. I think it is good that the Council of State shares the reality description of the committee. So I found it very positive that the Council of State is highlighting the importance of tripartite cooperation in the discussion on how to get a safer working environment for workers in the power and threat professions. I just want to stress that a joint committee and all the hearing bodies in this case recommend this regulation and consider it a very important measure, perhaps the most important thing in this proposal for a representative. I see the Council of State as a little bit more reserved. Can the Council of State elaborate on this? Does the Council of State know of any argument that speaks against such a rule? If not, can the Council of State expect to enter into these discussions with a very positive attitude to have such a regulation in place as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1337	When I say that I am in favour of the work that is now being done in the Labour Inspectorate and between the partners in the Cooperation Forum, it is precisely because you are sitting there discussing not only whether you are going to have a regulation, but also follow up the work report in a good way and find out – if you are going to have this regulation – how to organise it. I think it is both important and correct from my point of view to take this work so seriously that I await what recommendations I get from the PCF, and, when they put this before the department, take up the matter, report back and seize it. I believe that in respect of the work that is now being done between the parties and the Labour Inspectorate, I will await their recommendation – and I believe that this is wise.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1342	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1347	I think everyone agrees that violence and threatened situations are an important matter, and not least that it is important to follow it over time. What is the challenge today is to focus on this, but that focus must last. It's a crossroads that the situations we're talking about, where you can be threatened, are the unpredictable situations – situations that arise in child protection, where you didn't know in advance that there could be situations of a very serious nature. This means that, among other things: A lot of guidance is needed, but it also means that you are in a situation where those who help others need help yourself, that you are in a situation where you may be exposed to threats that you have not anticipated in advance. One of the most important things, which may not have been said so much about in the debate, is attitudes such as ‘that is what you have to expect’, that you have to expect to be threatened in such professions — a kind of attitude culture that goes on that it may not be so dangerous. That's exactly what I think is important to emphasize, that you have to have zero tolerance. Often it's, not least, about attitudes towards women, which I think it's quite essential that you actually also work on in this context. Regulation is all right, but it has to act locally. This needs to be followed up locally, and it is primarily about competence, leadership and being taken seriously. Tripartite cooperation has been mentioned several times, and I fully agree with that, and it is not least about leadership. And it's not least that when the situation arises, you take the time to sit down and talk through and take the consequences of the experiences that employees have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1358	Although the Committee is essentially in agreement on the challenge picture today, I am not going to ignore the big issue of our fight, because it also has an impact on what we are discussing today: the work environment law. She's one of our leading public health laws. It is the foundation of health, environment and safety in the workplace, and a commitment to job security is a strong regulation, which is the general rule. A fully-responsible working environment depends on work time arrangements that are sedentary and take into account the health, well-being and safety of workers. The Labour Party believes that the government challenges this security with the proposed changes to the Work Environment Act. We are concerned about the impact the proposals can have on the individual employee. Increased opportunities for overtime use, increased cut-off limits for working time, a lower security factor and a more general opening for Sunday work think we'll take working life in a negative direction. The Labour Party believes, like many of the hearing authorities, that the proposals of the government clearly weaken the protection purposes of the work environment laws. Long hours of work increase the risk of accidents, malpractice, health damage, etc., and the need to prevent such adverse effects should weigh heavily. Such protection concerns are too limited in the proposal of the government. Young people and immigrants are overrepresented in accident statistics, and we know that many of these are temporarily added. Often they are not trained or trained and are assigned to work tasks for which they are not qualified, with very poor HMS follow-up. The Labour Party believes that today's work environment legislation is a guarantee of safety at work, and that the labour environment law needs to be strengthened rather than weakened.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1369	When the representative Holen Bjørdal chooses to talk about the Working Environment Act in a matter that is otherwise unanimous, he should have a reality that is more in line with what he says. The whole point of some of the changes in the Working Environment Act, for example: child protection institutions or institutions for other types of people are that some of the things that are said are that you want safe employees. You don't want so many employees to deal with, and you want those who are employed at such an institution or housing offer to have a full job. After eight red-green years, the general rule for very many of these is that they don't have a full-time job. The government's proposal for a new law on working environment, which has an average calculation of working time, will help more people to work. I was visiting a child-rescue facility in the municipality of Sola. There was a girl who told me how terrible she felt about dealing with 16-17 employees around her, as the only user of the offer. The employees fully agreed, and the municipality agreed. What did they do? They made an average calculation, which led to relatively few employees, but in a full-time position and with a lot of freedom between the sessions, which helped the girl have a greater chance of getting into normal living and living her life, rather than having people around her the whole time she didn't know. I think the whole point of the average calculation we see is that it leads to full-time jobs for employees, better quality of those to be there, and not least better employee service. So why argue that the Working Environment Act weakens this kind of service? The whole point is that the Labour Environment Act strengthens this type of service. We're very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1378	Let it be clear that the red-green government had a long and concrete struggle to secure full-time jobs and prevent part-time work. We saw concrete results of this, among other things. health establishments. It is not only in this room that you are a good employer, you are also in the municipalities and local authorities. The alternative working hours you have today, the tours you have today, in which people work, with different experiences, are set out in today's work environment law. Today's legislation, according to those we had at the hearing, and to which we have all heard the experience – from various workers' organisations – highlights that there is just liberality to make good solutions in today's legislation. So do not assume that you need to change today's work environment law in order to secure employees in exposed sectors and in vulnerable industries. On the contrary, I think that there is a lot that can be done within today's legal framework, if we're just willing to see what the real challenges are, and do something about it. I am pleased that the Committee has chosen to point out the need for a precise regulation in order to ensure the working day of those who love their job, but who will be able to do it safely. I also appreciate the fact that the Council of State did not reject such an initiative, and I look forward to working together to get through a regulation that can provide people with the necessary security in their working life that you deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1387	Let me first say that I think we have had a good debate on this major problem raised by this Document 8. And when many praise the Committee and the Advocate-General, rightly so, I would like first of all to congratulate Fredric Holen Bjørdal, who actually took the initiative in this Document 8, and for the thorough manner he, along with all the good powers, has worked to get it out. It was not possible not to take the word, since the discussion on the Working Environment Act came up, following the comments of the representative, Mr. Kambe. It is true that there is a need to amend the Working Environment Act in order to strengthen the possibility of full-time work. We did that, the red-green parties, by a majority in the Stortinget, on a proposal from the government, in June 2013. We used the Working Environment Act to develop it in the future. We have made many changes, including: to strengthen the possibility of full-time. I made suggestions on this when I was the Council of State in 2009, which strengthened the right of preference for the full-time position of those who were in the part-time position. It was further strengthened in June 2013. I think it is very good that the representative Holen Bjørdal addresses the context of politics, because it is not just the points we are now talking about, which affect the safety of the labour market – it does the overall labour market policy. And there I find that the representative Mr. Kambe's posts were exceptionally clarifying. He mentioned a successful example from a child protection institution, where it was possible to obtain flexible arrangements within the current work environment law, with the many possibilities for exceptions and flexibility contained in it. We have a flexible work environment law today, which provides precisely that type of solutions. But it is proposed that a weakened labour-environment law, which does not safeguard the situation in the labour market, should be introduced. The main debate on that is coming back to March 24.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1396	I didn't think this debate was going to be about the Working Environment Act in the broad sense. I thought we'd have that debate later, just before Easter. But I can't stop taking the word when it first comes up. The Working Environment Act is important for all – for permanent employees, for those with temporary or temporary jobs and for part-time employees. And – just so it’s said – the right is concerned with hanging over the work environment law. We'll fight for it. However, there is no contradiction between defending the Working Environment Act and opening up some small adjustments that are more consistent with current practice. This with turns was mentioned here: it is done within the current work environment law by applying for the central trade unions for exemptions. But what's in the proposal for a new work environment law is letting go of that process. It will be a bit like continuing today’s practice, but without these contingent application procedures. These include: the proposal for a new work environment law. This has been talked about getting more jobs: yes, the companies that have applied for exemptions, and who have been given alternative tours, have also got more jobs, and that is something that we all agree on. So I really don't understand this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1405	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1419	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and six lines of response after contributions from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1426	The first speaker is the representative of Hege Jensen, for the rapporteur on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1429	The supplementary social security scheme for persons over 67 years of age living in Norway is a relatively new scheme. It was introduced in 2006, following a decision in this Chamber in 2005. It has therefore only been in place for nine years. It is now in place to review how the scheme works and whether it has an improvement potential. When the scheme was adopted, the Progress Party was against the scheme itself. Fortunately, it has changed on several points and today appears to be far better than the one originally introduced. Most people are well aware that there are a number of requirements for any recipients of the benefit. Not only must you be over 67 years old, it is tested for needs and must take account of all income, including income abroad. It is also an important aspect of the benefit that it is not exportable to the EEA territory. And there is a requirement not to stay out of the country for more than three months at a time. This is exactly what I will come back to later in my article. The number of persons receiving the benefit has gradually increased — from 2,400 when it was introduced to more than 3,200 today. There's no surprise for anyone, but for some of us there's an indication that more and more people come to the country who don't have enough resources to take care of themselves. Here we know something of the essence of the matter. Before the scheme came into place, there were also a number of people who had moved to Norway who did not have sufficient resources to manage themselves. They had to go to social to do it. Today's system has the intention to remove the stigma by applying for social assistance and has managed so well that we can assume that it is paid out more through this system than it would have been to the same people if they had to go to social. One of the main reasons why more and more people qualify for this benefit is the inadequate accumulation of pension entitlements. This is mainly due to two factors, either having come to Norway at such an age that you do not get to retire until you reach retirement age of 67 years, or having little or few incentives to work the years you have from arrival to retirement. I am pleased that a majority in the committee is asking the government to look at incentives to strengthen the working line, given that it is now open to workers having a legal right to work for 72 years, and that they can earn pension funds up to 75 years. It must be a goal that can serve as much as possible for life's stay on its own, instead of being a passive recipient of such a social benefit. I am also pleased that a majority in the Committee specifies that the system must be followed up, so that it is as targeted as possible at those who really need that support. It can be assumed that there is an opportunity to improve how the needs test is carried out, so that no one gets paid if they don't really need it. It is also important to mention that good, appropriate control procedures are put in place. No one has earned that people who openly ignore the requirements for the receipt of the benefit, such as by staying abroad for more than three months at a time, can do so without the risk of being exposed. The opposition is very concerned with the fact that the Progress Party voted against the original scheme. It was also highlighted that the scheme has had several important and good boundaries in recent years. I would argue that these changes are good, and that they reduce the possibility of abuse and mispayment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1455	The rapporteur has given an overview of what this matter is all about – formally speaking. On a formal basis, the Government responds to the Grand Duchy’s wish to review the experience gained in the scheme adopted in 2005 to ensure a minimum collection of income for persons over 67 years of age, at the level of the benefits of minimum pensioners, including dependants’ allowances for spouses under 67 years of age and children under 18 years of age. On behalf of the Workers' Party, I would like to commend the Council of State for having responded to the task in a thorough manner. Statistics from the SSB and Nav have been obtained to document actual use. Information has been obtained on the practical aspects of the proceedings of those dealing with matters in Nav. The notification indicates that the scheme is working properly. The justification in its time was twofold. Firstly, the vast majority of the recipients in question were and are immigrants. There were many from Bosnia, a part from the Third World, c. 100 originally Norwegian, but who had stayed abroad for a long time. The alternative to supplementary social benefits would be social assistance. Additional social benefits were considered to be a more dignified scheme for the individual. Secondly, by introducing a supplementary social security scheme, the State took a greater part of the financial responsibility to ensure that everyone in Norway had a worthy old age. A positive side-effect of this was that an even subdued municipality's reluctance to settle older immigrants. In itself, it's not worth experiencing that some municipalities are getting to sort people this way, but there's another debate, which I'm going to leave here and now. I have been involved in the formality of today's case and have given the Council of State a credit for it. But really, in this case, we are talking about something quite different, where I am not as willing to praise the government, unfortunately not the large number either. In this case we are talking about some of those who have the least of them. We are also talking about those who have the least chance of improving their own living conditions through income from their own work, and who will also not have long enough living time to achieve what we consider to be a minimum for pensioners to live on in Norway. I mentioned that the message shows that the scheme has worked properly. In addition, there is a system of severe income testing in terms of both income and wealth. Recipients must apply each year in person. The number of recipients has been as expected. The consumption of social assistance has decreased, as expected. Shortening to own income increases, as expected, with increasing living time. Two thirds of the recipients are single. In 2013, only a very small number, 214, received support for spouses/partners under the age of 67, only 38 had custody of children under the age of 18. The last figures were 250 and 40 people respectively. It was, as the rapporteur was also concerned, a system that was put in place with the support of all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party. Then we look at our great surprise in the budget and the pooling proposition, just a short time before this message is presented to the Stortinget, that the entire government and the bulk of the population with a pen stroke chooses to remove both of the dependants. Actually, we may be talking about the price that some people in this country have to pay for the Right has let the Advance Party into the government, because when the scheme was introduced, it was just the Progress Party that voted against. This message clearly shows that it is about a place between 200 and 300 of those who have the least, who should be involved in paying part of this price. Government parties have a special relationship with incentives. Those who have a lot of, get more flashy, those who have a little bit less, get even less. It is a philosophy the Labour Party does not share, and therefore we have not joined the majority of the Committee, who are satisfied that the support supplements are excluded from this vulnerable group. I am, I must admit, particularly surprised at the Left's position on this issue. In the case of the other message, some adjustments and clarifications agreed with the Workers' Party are discussed, with one reservation, and those posted to the institution. If it is equal for everyone in terms of funds for their own consumption, we support what the government has presented in the message. Finally, the Labour Party also fully agrees with the government that further control measures are not necessary. We don't need bureaucracy for the sake of bureaucracy, and when those who work on it say that control is good, and the government says that control is good, we haven't supported the majority of the committee, who want further control measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1476	I want to start with what the representative Lise Christoffersen said about this being a system that can make things worthwhile, that we can get a state responsibility, and that one can make it easier for an easier to live with older immigrants in the municipality. That was very pointed out by the representative Christoffersen, and I agree with that. What the matter now applies is how this has been followed up further. The government has reviewed the supplementary social benefits scheme for persons over 67 years of age with a short residence in Norway, on the basis of a decision taken on 17 March 2005. The purpose is to ensure that older immigrants over 67 years of age with a short residence in Norway and little or no old-age pension from social security are provided with income at the same level as the minimum pension level. The centre party is satisfied with the review and the conditions that are illuminated and reviewed. The central party believes that it is important that the scheme be targeted at those who really need support, as well as limiting mispayments and abuse. In particular, it is important to check that recipients have not had a stay abroad for more than two months. This is important in order to maintain popular support for the scheme, a system of which the Progress Party was a short-term opponent. It cannot be underestimated that we must constantly act as ombudsmen here in the Storting and sense what is going on outside people, and ensure that the arrangements being made are after the intention, and cannot be abused, because this will result in a fundamental additional failure in relation to a number of necessary and vitally important arrangements. The Party therefore agrees that the Government is considering proposals for improvements to procedures and documentation requirements with a view to preventing and preventing abuse of the scheme. But I would like to stress, and stress in particular to the Council of State, that the Central Party presupposes that the Government, the Council of State, will return to the Stortinget with any changes in follow-up before they are put into effect. This is not least important because it is essential for the derogation granted to Norway from the EU export requirement, where it states that: «the scheme is based on needs testing, the aim is to ensure a minimum income and that the costs are not covered by social security charges». It was the central premise for a derogation under EU legislation. The lot of the centre joins the department's overall assessment not to enter into an extension of the supplementary social security scheme to persons under the age of 67. We are satisfied with the system as it is and will therefore ensure that one avoids the development of abuse of the system – so that it can be continued. We hope that the Progress Party will also support the system if they will once come into opposition at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1494	Supplementary social benefits are an important scheme for persons with short butide in Norway, and therefore have no or no pension ignition. It is an important task for the community to ensure that everyone has an income to cope with in old age. The supplementary social benefits scheme ensures that the group we're talking about here has an income in line with the minimum pension level in the population. It's straight and reasonable. The alternative would be to end up on social welfare schemes that are intended to be temporary and exceptional. This would be a poor solution for those who are in debt, and it would also put a heavy pressure on the municipal budget, where we want it to be room for a red economic support for those who have a temporary or exceptional need. In addition, the representative of Christoffersen, the municipalities, their willingness to bus older immigrants, is not an insignificant argument in this context. The left is pleased that the government has carried out a review of the scheme, as the Storting has requested, since, after all, it is a relatively new scheme. As I read the evaluation that has been made, the scheme works largely as intended, and it is particularly positive that the scheme appears to have contributed to a significant reduction in the number of the economic welfare group in question. Certain problems are reported in checking that the recipients have not resided abroad more than under the rules. This is important to be followed closely in the future. In addition, the Ministry proposes some minor changes to the scheme to clarify what is unclear in the legislation. It seems reasonable and will probably make the laws easier to practice. It also seemed reasonable that one at this point did not go in to expand the scheme to groups under 67. The fact that the current crop is the recipient of the scheme is pointed out in the evaluation as one of the reasons why the scheme works well and is easy to control. Expanding the group would likely increase the control problem and would include people who would normally have easier to obtain revenues alongside the performance. I also understand that a joint committee with the setting agrees that the supplementary support scheme should not be extended. Finally, I would like to say that it is good that the arrangement we are talking about here, in all the essential things now, has a mass collapse in the back. It strengthens the legitimacy of the system, and with the clarifications that are now being made, it will hopefully also work even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1509	I am very pleased that a so clearly majority in the Grand Duchy has joined the government's proposals on this matter, and I also think it is important to stress, as many people have argued, that the arrangement has mainly worked after the intention. We're talking here about people with short living, we're talking about that there should be a minimum income insurance scheme to prevent people from staying on the bar when you got here. I also think it's interesting to draw some other numbers: when we look at numbers from 2006, there were 64.6 pst. the beneficiaries reduced performance due to income testing, while the figure had increased to 75,3 pst. in 2013. The main reason for the reduction in benefit is self-earned age pension from public welfare. I think that is an interesting and important signal, which shows that more and more people have come and either got a foot within the labour market in Norway, or brought benefits. Basically, we are talking here about people who have few or no benefits from other countries. This means that many people have started to earn benefits in Norway and are related to the labour market. I think that's positive and happy. Then I am very pleased with what the representative Lundtigen also said, that it is important – for all our welfare systems – to have good and proper control to ensure the legitimacy of our welfare systems. The legitimacy is crucial if we are to build, maintain and further develop a good, sound welfare society built up through generations. Then I also register that someone has suggested that you should not have done anything with the support. I think it's right that you've now done the grips you've done in that area. This means that the scheme – even more clearly – is framed in the way it was intended, namely as a minimum income insurance scheme, while at the same time having a system that is not getting better or as good as for those who already have some earnings in the social security system. It's important that you have a distinction between those who have short living, and those who have a little longer living time and some earnings, so that those who have earned do not come out as badly. It must be a motivation both to be in the labour market and to stay longer in the labour market and to earn its own livelihoods in that area. In short, the government and I are satisfied with the treatment the case has received. We are satisfied and satisfied with the decision that Stortinget is making here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1522	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1525	I have a question for the Council of State: does he believe that income from his own work is a real alternative for older immigrants with short living and poor language, perhaps even illiterate? And if so, has the Council of State considered where these jobs are located?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1530	I believe that we should make it possible for every human being to experience one of the greatest freedoms a human being can have, that is, to be self-sufficient with his own income, regardless of age. I mean, we have a way to go. The government is doing mass on a broad front to get more people into the world of work and more people to stand longer in the world of work. So I don't know – and I don't think any of us sitting in this room know about – the competence – of each one out there and can point to which jobs or industries he has competence for. What I'm concerned about is making sure that we get a good, flexible and inclusive working life, which also uses the resource of older workers. I am convinced that many who come to our country also have a working capacity and a resource that we can use to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1536	Now it's like the support supplement is being removed not only for cohabitants and spouses, but also for children under 18 years of age. I wonder: is it a new principle in Norwegian welfare policy that children under the age of 18 with old parents are expected to contribute to their own livelihood by cutting the pension of their parents, or is it only for the 40 children who have now noticed this on their bodies?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1541	This is not a pension scheme – where the representative is wrong – it is a minimum income insurance scheme, and I think it is right to remove the dependants' allowances in a minimum income insurance scheme, which is a supplementary benefit. That is why we have proposed this, precisely because we need a distinction between the welfare systems that have been developed through rights and a minimum income insurance scheme. We've done that this way, and I think it's a good way to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1546	I note that the Council of State and the undersigned disagree on that point. After all, we're talking about 18-year-olds who have parents or a caregiver over 67. But enough about it. If it should now be demonstrated that social assistance consumption is once again increasing among older dependants due to the tightening up that has been made, and once again is it also proving to have a new negative impact on the settlement of older immigrants, will the Council consider changing this tightening and reintroducing support supplements for this vulnerable group?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1553	In that case, the Council of State would consider whether the theoretical case pointed out by the representative had to arise.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1558	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1566	Before we go to the vote, the representative, Mr Svendsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1569	I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Oskar J. Grimstad, Odd Henriksen, Regina Alexandrova, Margunn Ebbesen and myself on the law of the law of motor travel in the fields and watercourses. Temporary provision on the use of snowmobiles in former experimental municipalities. I ask that it be dealt with under point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1574	The proposal will be examined at the request of the representative. Then we are ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1733	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1743	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1751	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Mrs Klinge on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the establishment of a surveillance camera at all runable border crossings in Norway, so that this can be implemented in 2015.’ [[ANPR]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-05.ana.ud1303e1828	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
