ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e35	On Monday, the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Solvency Horne, Bent Höie and Tord Lien will meet for oral Question Time. The state councils advertised are present, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative of Torgeir Micaelsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e42	«Listen to experienced mountain people» is a good old saying, and although it is little fruitful to argue about the snow that fell last year, it is useful to learn from history and not make the same mistakes again. But after observing the performances of both Health Minister Höie and the head of the Health and Care Committee of the Storting, of the Progress Party, in the last few weeks, I am seriously concerned about whether the government parties are able to do just that. We have had many rounds in this Chamber over the last years on so-called grant commitments for, among others. construction of nursing homes. And we have emphatic knowledge that there is a difference between applied grants for, among other things. nursing homes in the care of the elderly and built places. Therefore, it is only quite surprising that both the head of the Health and Welfare Committee and the Minister for Health are now travelling around the country and announcing a shift in the pace of care for the elderly, precisely on the basis of the increase in the number of commitments requested. Elder care has improved considerably in recent years. The quality and capacity have increased. Still, we've joined ourselves because we haven't achieved all the goals we set. But if we measure the way the government even now walks around and boasts of, based on the number of grant commitments, we were on track. That the municipalities did not search was never the problem. The main problem for many municipalities was that they could not afford to start the construction because they were afraid that the expenses would come later. That is why we have learned, as I said, and a sample in the Workers' Party has outlined a new way of thinking – a new reform for older people's health. I therefore want to use the occasion today to warn the government parties not to take lessons from our experiences as well. The question to the Council of State Höie therefore becomes: With a municipal economy that many think is too weak, and that we know that the needs are growing in the municipalities in the future, is the Council of State certain that all the commitments on subsidies, which he now boasts, will actually be translated into new places in the care of the elderly in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e53	I record that the Labour Party is now spending a lot of time warning other parties against its own old age policy – a policy that they went to elections in three elections and that they are now spending a lot of time warning us against. These are warnings that we don't need. We have never been elected to the Labour Party's old age policy, nor will we ever be able to copy the Labour Party's old age policy. We are very pleased that the significant improvement in the grant scheme made by the new government, where we now cover half the bill if a municipality builds a nursing home, has led to more municipalities applying. But, of course, that's not the only way: this government makes sure that the state takes a greater responsibility for the better preparation of municipalities to provide older people who need good luck and care, a better offer. That is why we have entered into a cooperation with the KS, which now means that a surveyer specifically identifies the plans of municipalities to build several sites, both in the short term and in the longer term. Based on that survey, the government wants to enter into an agreement with the KS on a concrete plan for development, for one of the main problems for the Workers' Party was that a promised very much, but one promised it on behalf of the municipalities. We want to cooperate with the municipalities on this. We are also working to establish a statutory right to the care and care of the lucky day, precisely to ensure the individual right to this offer, when one has that offer. It will also help to speed up the work of municipalities in expanding several places. We also want to work with better systems, to get an overview of how many people today would actually have had good luck and care, but they don't get it. The previous government made the impression that the municipalities were not allowed to have that kind of overview, which is obviously wrong, and we are going to clean this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e64	I fully agree that we should not spend a lot of time on the snow that fell last year, and I have said what I have said, even though I could give a long lecture on how much improvement – both in quality and capacity – has occurred in Norwegian municipalities in recent years. But I also record that when the Minister of Health is given the opportunity to present what the government intends to learn from what happened, and what plans you have for the future, there are thus overviews, plans and cooperation, but very little concrete about what will happen to improvements. The only concrete health minister has put on the table is that the government is now taking half the bill. There is a marginal increase in the subsidy to what the municipalities themselves say is not the main problem, namely building. What they're worried about is whether they have enough competent employees to follow up people who need comprehensive health care, in many ways at the end of their lives. Then again the question is: if we agree that everything has not worked as well, what concrete financial – and other – action will the Minister of Health take the initiative against the Stortinget to get the right pace on what we all agree on?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e73	I would like to thank you for the opportunity to continue the list of concrete actions we are working on. I took part of them in my first answer and can continue now. In the 2015 state budget, we have allocated 30 million. to establish a national quality register for the municipal care services. We're just doing that because the state knows too little about the quality of these services. It will provide us with a basis for better understanding of quality, providing municipalities with a basis to compare with others, but not least it also provides a basis for what is an important step for the government, precisely establishing national quality indicators and, not least, standards related to manning and quality in order to follow the municipalities much more directly. We also put considerable emphasis on competence. We already did that in our first state budget, and together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we now have a net strengthening of the care service where the state contributes 568 million. kr in the State budget adopted for 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e82	It opens for follow-up questions – first Olaug V. Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e85	In the last few days, we have received more than one story about the elderly, who have become a parcel post between hospitals and municipalities – to hospitals and back to the municipalities. So many of these are older, and for the Christian People's Party, it's important that the elderly get the care they need, at the level they need, at the right time. Patients must not be lost because of the fact that there is too little capacity in Kommune-Norway. If we are to succeed in caring for the elderly, and if we are to succeed in an interaction reform, it is central to having enough beds, good competence and good patient mobility. I have now heard the Minister say that he is working with the KS to register and chart. Then it is important for the Christian People's Party to know: how far has this mapping come, when do we get answers, and how can we use this mapping in future budgets to just achieve the goal we have set ourselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e92	KS is now in the process of monitoring in its annual budget survey. Then it's our ambition to present a new and much more offensive old age policy in connection with the primary health care notification, which we put forward before the summer. There will be all the extra measures that I have now outlined – and several others – presented, and not least the follow-up to the cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left in this area, where an important point is the legal right to good luck and care. I fully agree with the representative that many elderly people today experience treatment that they should not have experienced, because some hospitals and municipalities send them unnecessarily to hospitals because they do not have sufficient competence themselves – for example. adequate medical coverage in hospitals – and thus the older ones will be in hospitals for a short time, and they will be written back again. It's an extra strain that people who have complex disorders shouldn't have been subjected to, because of the way we've organized this, and the lack of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e99	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e102	When we discuss elderly policies in the Stortinget, it is usually about the need for those who need whole-day care and care, and it is very important that we discuss the lack of sick home places in particular and what we can do to get well-structured with sick home places. I also lack another important part of this image, i.e. the offer for those who live at home. There is a queue that we never debate, and it is the queue of those waiting for a daily activity offer. The Health Minister himself has answered a question from me that there are 23 000 waiting for a daily supply of activity for demented people, who need a place of daily activity, but who do not. For these groups, we've wanted to change the rules. The question is, would you like to make the same change for the health care extension?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e110	I am also concerned that although the government has increased the subsidy item for daytime activities, we see that there are still many municipalities that are not applying for this money, even though the Storting has granted them. We have made some improvements in the legislation to make this money easier to use for municipalities. The size has also adopted the principle that this should be legalised at a time, and of course it is also an instrument to be considered when to introduce it. What we're also doing is creating a new dementia plan. The dementia plan we've had is now going out. What is new there is that we have entered into a partnership with the National Association for Public Health to also involve people with dementia in the development of the new dementia plan. It may be a gang's perception that people with dementia are very old and at the end of their lives, but the reality is that dementia can hit in the middle of their lives. Many people get dementia while they're at work, while they have teenage children, and it takes a whole new way of thinking about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e117	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e120	There is no lack of state grants for investment in health homes that is the main challenge in getting enough health home capacity in Norway, it is the fear of municipalities not having enough resources to operate with quality. In this respect, the government has announced an investigation work that we follow with interest, related to national requirements for standards in the care of the elderly. I have tried to get a clear response from the government to what you really are investigating, because the government statement says that you should assess a norm/guidance. There's a difference in the sky between a crew norm and a supervisor. For this reason, I would like to ask the Minister of Health very specifically: is it relevant for the government to introduce a national standard for nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e125	First, I would like to make a settlement with the claim made by the Red-Green parties that the improvement in the investment scheme made by the Right and the Advance Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, where we now take half the bill, will not affect the municipalities. The experience after 2014 is that it matters to the municipalities. Even though we increased the funding, 2014 is the first year in which the municipalities have applied for the entire grant item since 2008. That means that the claim from the red-greens that this will have no effect is wrong. It has had an effect, we now see a completely different enthusiasm in the municipalities to apply for investment grants. As for the content of guidelines and norms, we will, as I have responded to earlier today, come back to that in the big news about primary health. So the representative will get an answer to that then.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e132	The Minister of Health is quite right to succeed in expanding the care of the elderly and putting in more sick places, you have to work well with the municipalities. One reason the municipalities do not invest any more in hospital places is that they are afraid that they will not have the money to operate the same places in the next round. We see that municipalities are also struggling to hire enough people otherwise in the care of the elderly and make the necessary changes to welfare technology – and what is the reason for this? After all, the municipalities for 2015 have a very meagre municipal economic structure, which barely covers the bills that are already there, as well as a tax failure from 2014 of about 2 billion. kr, for which the government refused to compensate. This is why many municipalities are now cutting instead of investing in future care for the elderly. So my question is, where was the Minister of Health when the government laid down the municipal code for 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e137	I believe that Helga Pedersen has had enough rounds in the Questionnaire and on other occasions, including with the Minister for Municipal Affairs, where she has received a good answer to this question, precisely that the scheme that the municipalities have received this year is a good one. Then, too, by the State, by the Ministry of Health and Welfare, we are contributing significant amounts to motivate municipalities to invest in quality and capacity in the care of the elderly. We give around half a billion a year in different skills enhancement measures, just to improve quality. Then it almost seems that – although I say it several times – one has not come to realize that there has been a change of pace after the government change. It is no longer possible for municipalities to apply for grants for investment because they are afraid of operating costs. That was the case under the red-green government. Now they're applying for the whole pot, and we see a change of pace in the number of applications from the municipalities. So I think one has to put away the experience that one had in government, because then one had such a bad order that the municipalities were allowed to apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e144	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e147	My question goes to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. According to Dagsrevyen, 2 February 2015, the NRK carried out a study showing that more than half of Norwegian municipalities need or need assistance from external actors in child protection studies. According to the NRK, municipal child protection services use private actors to conduct studies. External child-restraint companies also provide their assessment and recommendations on the possible measures to be taken by the protection of children. Questions are asked about whether this practice is lawful. Kirsten Sandberg, a member of the United Nations Children's Rights Committee, one of the country's foremost children's rights experts, believes this is illegal. She states that a municipality cannot delegate decision-making powers. In her view, it is a crime when external actors’ investigations form the basis for decisions in the field of child protection. Jusprofessor Sverre Blandhol gives the NRK a clear warning against child protection using private child protection consultants. Of course, the fear is that commercial companies recommend their own services in the follow-up of the children, and thus the municipalities lose control. It is also feared that trust in child protection decisions is at stake when commercial interests may affect decisions on what is going to happen to the children. My question is: What does the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion think about this practice, which is obviously a lot used in Kommune-Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e160	This is a question that has been raised to the ministry several times since the mid-1990s. The last time was well in 1998, when former government council elected Svarstad Haugland replied to a question about this. Then the council from the Christian People's Party said that it is positive for the capacity that the municipalities also use a private company when the tasks become too extensive. So we know that there are very many small municipalities out there that choose to fix this task by buying services from private people to do studies of children and families. It may be the right way for some municipalities to go if they do not have the capacity themselves, and it must be up to the municipalities to decide whether they want to use private operators. As the report on Monday showed, it is expensive for the municipalities to use this, so it must be a little up to the individual municipality. At the same time, I clearly see the dilemma raised by the representative, Mr Becquerad, namely the double role. Because it's the municipalities that have the responsibility to see the family, to see the child. Then it may be that they solve that problem by purchasing help to investigate, but the decision-making authority should be with the municipalities. The cases are to be dealt with in the counties, and it is important that the municipalities have made good use of them. However, a double role in which private individuals can subsequently provide the services for taking care of them is very unfortunate, and therefore my department will contact the local government minister to ask for it to be clarified in the legislation, so that we avoid a double role in child protection services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e167	It is good to hear that the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion will look at this practice, and not least what has to do with the dual role. It is pointed out in the case that the reasons for using private actors may be sick leave, growing professional demands and excessive amounts of action in relation to the number of employees in the child protection service in the municipalities. In the last period, the Christian People's Party was an impellor to transfer more resources to child protection. We wanted a child protection reform to ensure that all children were given timely and timely assistance. Then it seems – even if you have transferred large resources to child protection – that it is not enough. When the Council of State sees child protection today, where are the greatest needs, and what will the Council of State do so that we can have a robust child protection that is just there when the children need it the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e174	There has been a build-up of municipal child protection in the last five years, as the former government started, and for which they also received support from the bourgeois parties on the Stortinget. It's been ear-marked, and we've been able to get about that in place. 890 positions in municipal child protection. It will continue in 2015, and I am also very happy that with the budget agreement we got an extra 20 million. kr to municipal child protection. But then I see that there are challenges out there. There are many small municipalities that are struggling to get enough employees in place. I visited Kirkenes last week, where the statement was later changed by the Council of State to: I heard about municipalities where they have one employee in child protection. Then it goes without saying that the municipality has problems doing the preventive work, doing investigations, and for that municipality it may be possible that they buy that service. At the same time, however, I would like to make it clear that the municipalities have to make the final decision when taking care of them. Then we've started a structural change that's going to look at giving municipalities more responsibility, and then, of course, it also has to go with more resources to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e187	It opens for follow-up questions – first Olaug Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e190	The municipality of Sandnes used a private company to get away from the mass of cases. Vulnerable children who deserved help somehow became a separate store. The municipality spent a lot of money, and the company got the bay and both ends: first I found out and then I could actually make an offer for action afterwards. The municipality turned around, cancelled the agreement with the private company, employees more people themselves, got down the case, managed to stay within the law, and there was no bend and oat sack on the action side. What does the Council of State think about the amount of action in the field of child protection being so large that it is in fact unable to achieve measures on the action side, and what will the Council of State do to reduce the number of cases in the municipalities? Even small municipalities can solve this by cooperating with others, but it is the total amount of treatment that is the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e195	It's an important topic that I've spent a long time discussing with the representative. The most important child protection work takes place in municipalities: early entry of municipalities, prevention of the individual family, so as to avoid taking care of them. Then we see that the municipalities have got more and more cases and a larger amount of cases. That's great, because it shows that people are reporting from here. But we also see that the municipalities that focus on prevention, which are set up in health centres, use less on child protection. And what Sandne's municipality has done is exemplary. They have a resource health station, they've invested in health centres, they're working cross-country so they can get in earlier and bring down the number of takeovers. They have now seen that they spent too much money on private operators. The fact that they have now built up their own team that can do research has made them have a larger professional environment. They have saved money on this, and I think that in the long run it was the best thing for the children and families. This is a system that I want more municipalities to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e202	Arild Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e205	The reasons for this practice can be many. It has been pointed out, among others: a high level of sick leave among staff, a high level of professional requirements, an increase in the number of cases, and that was the challenge that the red-green government also saw. That is why we started a step up in the number of posts and earmarked money for it. We would like the Council of State to be more offensive in terms of further escalation in the number of employees, as we assume that it is precisely where much of the bottleneck lies and the challenges lie. As Mr Bekkevold points out, Kirsten Sandberg, who sits on the United Nations Committee on Children's Rights, claims that this practice is illegal. The answer from Solvency Horne may indicate that the Council of State does not see the problem. Does that mean that the Council of State disagrees with Kirsten Sandberg in this claim, and will the Council of State take any initiative to get cleaned up in this unfortunate practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e210	The practice of municipalities purchasing services from the private sector has been a long one. It has also been done in the red-green driving time. The municipality chooses to purchase private services is fully legal. What is unfortunate, and I also said that in my response to Becquerading violence, is if a double role arises in which the investigators are also involved and offer a service that the municipalities buy afterwards. It's unfortunate, and I've said that there's something I want to look at. This must be made clear, so that one is sure that the legal security of both the families and the children is well respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e215	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e218	The Government stated in the Health Declaration: ‘The Government considers that the production of welfare services is in principle not very different from other services. The use of competition stimulates the creation of value added, better services and efficiency. It is therefore essential that competition become a horizontal element of public activity. Statutory rights to welfare services, combined with free establishment rights and price financing directly to the service provider chosen by the consumer, may contribute to ensuring such development.’;» My question is whether the Council of State sees that this objective can conflict with a child protection system based on unhealthy professional assessments and services that are best for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e228	It is important that municipalities have the resources and skills to get in early to help families and children who need help. When child protection promotes matters for the general public, it gives them places — whether it be private or state places — is not so important. The most important thing is that they get an offer that suits the individual child. We are totally dependent on private provision of services in the child protection sector. We're buying places today, and so were we under the previous government. About 50 pst. of all the places are private. We need a diversity for the children. I have no problem saying that in terms of child protection, we need both state spaces, ideal places and private places, which offer good help to the children who need a better everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e235	André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e238	It is gratifying that the Council of State, among other things, points to prevention. The left has always taken into account that we need more health sisters, which was not the big project under the red-green ones. But many child-rescue services are understaffed, show NRK headlines, and the representative Bekkeword was also involved. According to the FO, there is a high need for increased procedural capacity, up to 800-1 000 jobs. Examples from your own country show that even if several municipalities join together, there is still a lack of sufficient professional competence. Is it not then the answer to this – at least part of the answer – that we now need to get the pace of the municipal reform, so that we also get a clearer and stronger professional competence into the new municipalities to help those who are the main question here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e246	I am pleased that there is a cross-political consensus that municipal child protection should be strengthened. It was the previous government that started to put in place more posts, and the Christian People's Party, the Left and this government were able to agree on additional funds for municipal child protection this year. Local authorities have recently been given increased frameworks, so the municipalities also need to fill up their efforts to protect children in the municipalities. Then I fully agree with the representative who addresses the municipal reform. Community reform is going to be important, also based on child protection. There are too many small municipalities out there that have too small colleges, so the kids don't get the right help they're going to have at the right time. That's why the government, and I, have started to look at the structure of child protection, and we're going to start a test project so that municipalities can get more responsibility. However, this must also be seen in the context of the community reform, so that we get robust professional environments in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e253	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e256	Historically, ideal actors have played an important role in child protection. That's not an SV against it. But to create good services, predictability is needed and not competition. That is why we want to remove the tendering procedure and impose a dividend ban. In the case of consultancy services, it should be possible, in our view, for municipalities to purchase them, but not to outsource administrative tasks. It should not be possible for private undertakings to take decisions or to lay down the basis for such decisions. When it comes to happening on such a large scale, it shows in our view the need for regulation. The council said instead that she saw the dilemma that private companies could have double roles. I also wonder whether the Council of State sees it as problematic that private individuals carry out administrative tasks – whether there is a need for regulation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e263	Finally, municipalities outsource administrative tasks: it is clear that this can be an unfortunate double role. And if that happens, let's see if it has to be made clear that it's unfortunate and that there can be a danger to legal certainty. I also said in the previous answer that there is something you have to look at. The municipalities have today the opportunity to purchase services, but it is under the law and under the Children's Protection Act that the municipalities have the full responsibility to make decisions, and so it should also be in the child protection cases. It is the municipalities that have to go to the district with a setting. Then I expect the municipalities to have intervened in the case, that they have also taken it over and seen the individual family, and that there is not a double role in the municipalities by purchasing places from private individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e268	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e271	My question goes to the Minister of Health and Care. The evening post could report on 29 January a 28 - year - old Ethiopian woman who, in November last year, gave birth to a gut at Caesar's incision at the Hospital Levanger. After she was born, she received an invoice from the hospital for NOK 52 000 as payment for the treatment in connection with her birth. As a paperless woman, she has no opportunity to get paid work. The granddaughter and the partner is a Norwegian citizen and has 100 pst. position in the municipality of Levanger. The Regulation on the right to health and care services for persons without permanent residence in the Kingdom, which entered into force on 1 January 2012, states that ‘all persons residing in the Kingdom are entitled to immediate assistance’ and ‘health care not to wait’. This regulation has no rules on health care payments. The Ministry has stated in a circular that those who do not have a permanent residence in the kingdom must fully cover the costs of the treatment, but no advance payment may be required. If the patient cannot cover the costs himself, it is clarified that the hospital must cover the costs. It is this legislation that is the basis for the Hospital Levanger to send an invoice of NOK 52 000 for birth. Media surveys show that there are quite different practices in hospitals in Norway in this area. In Stavanger, the hospital covers the costs, in Kristiansand, an invoice is sent to the patient. This shows that today's legislation is unclear. Whether the right to immediate assistance should depend on the ability to pay is an illusion. If birthing women are not told if they receive an account in the post after birth, the consequences may be serious. My question is about the Minister of Health and Health will change the legislation so that it will be free to be born in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e286	Everyone in Norway has the right to immediate help and health care that cannot wait, including those who are staying here illegally. All pregnant women, including those not legally resident, are entitled to the necessary health care before and after birth, including maternity and maternity care. The general rule is that persons without a permanent stay in Norway are to pay for the health care they receive. If the patients cannot cover the expenses themselves, they should be covered by the hospital. The legislation in this area is therefore not unclear; it is very clear. If a pregnant woman who is illegally staying in Norway needs health care assistance, she will receive it without being concerned about getting a bill that she cannot pay. But if you are able to pay, the general rule is that you have to pay. This is a code that hospitals practice. Of course, I have no opportunity to go in and look at what was behind the Levanger hospital’s specific assessment in the specific case, but we have a good system to complain about the kind of decisions if one disagrees with the hospital’s assessment. It is the Health Directorate that decides that type of complaint, and in all the counties in Norway, the patient and user representatives are readily available, who can also assist in a conversation with the hospital about whether this is a good deal of handling and who can write a complaint to the Health Directorate next time. I would like to warn against a situation in which we open up the Norwegian health service to people who do not have rights in the Norwegian welfare system, in such a way that the Norwegian health service is open and can be used by anyone who comes to Norway, regardless of whether they have acquired rights or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e293	I am hearing the Minister of Health and Health warn against a situation that opens up that people without a right to abstinence come to Norway as – in one way – health refugees. Then I want to make it clear that the law is clear that what we give a right to, regardless of whether you have the right to reside in Norway or not, is immediate help, the right to avoid serious illness and death. It is a paradox that we never in this room discuss how the payment should be, because it is clear that the right to be treated for immediate help, serious illness, is not as real for everyone when someone has to pay – and especially when those who cannot pay have to pay. I have one question. It's a matter of immediate help that's special, and it's birth, because it's about a third person. Will the Minister of Health proceed with the legislation, so that he can at least secure the birthright without having an invoice in the post?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e302	I believe that we have a code that was developed by the previous government, and that stands out well, because one is very clear that not only immediate help, but also health care that cannot wait, is something that one has the right to get in Norway when one needs it. However, if one is illegal or has not acquired rights in Norway, the general rule is that one should pay for this. If you have a non-payment ability, the hospital will cover the cost. Making a more detailed regulatory framework in this area I don't think I'm going to solve what I'm going to experience is the Toppe's intention, namely to make the regulatory framework easier to practice. On the contrary, I think it would then occur significantly more new borderline cases. Therefore, I believe that it is the local hospitals that are best suited to assess and manage this legislation, which is clear, in contact with the individual patient. And then we have good complaint procedures if the individual disagrees with the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e309	Follow-up questions are given – first Liv Signe Navarsette.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e312	I notice that the Council of State believes that we have a good order by saying that it is a complaint for the unborn when the bill of perhaps NOK 50 000 first comes to the person who is in childbirth. I wonder if the Council of State has looked into the matter and thought of individuality, looked into the situation of this woman, in a foreign country, who has just seen a child to the world, she may be tired and tired, she should not be allowed to be in the country, she does not have a job, nor can we count on her having a strong network around her. Has the Council of State thought that this is about individuals? And then the charge of $50,000, which is probably a huge sum of money for her. Perhaps there is someone who tells her that there is a complaint, perhaps they are trying to assure her that the case will resolve itself only she has confidence that the procedure will go its way, but she encounters a great deal of uncertainty. Does the Council of State think that it is reasonable for birthers to have to experience such additional stresses in Norway? Is it necessary for anyone to go through such pressures?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e324	I am not in doubt about the difficult situation in which this concrete woman is living, who is illegally in Norway and who has become pregnant and has had children with a Norwegian citizen. These are situations that occur many times, but it is also about the importance of having clear legislation relating to immigration into Norway. It is the hospital that assesses the specific situation. Experience has shown that in most cases the hospital assesses it to you that these are people who cannot pay. It's quite natural that it'll be like this in most cases, so neither will it be presented with any bill. It is then that no legislation is so good that it cannot sometimes be misjudged – when one has left a concrete assessment locally in the individual cases. That is why we have good complaint procedures to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e333	Tove Karoline Knutsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e336	I would also like to point out the person who is an innocent third party in this, namely the child, who in this particular case was also a Norwegian citizen. The Council of State is right, of course, that the threshold is low to cover these costs if it turns out that there are no resources available to it, but too many in this situation — at least for some — the circumstances surrounding this access may not be as obvious. In this case, it was known that it was at Caesar's intersection. The family was anxious in advance, and this suggests that the legislation and practice of this in the various hospitals is not good enough. My question is: what does the Council of State think that there can be clear preliminary procedures on the part of the Council of State and the Department in such cases, so that the families who come up in this are aware of their rights and opportunities, so that you do not add stones to the burden of the little new ones who come to the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e345	That legislation is very clear, is that there is no possibility of requiring prior payment for that type of assistance. It should also be so that it is very clear in the legislation and in the practice of healthcare that one should never give the impression that this is a help that one does not have the right to receive. Those who do not have the economy to pay for this must also feel secure that they do not have to pay either. Then it is that the practice of any legislation will occasionally lead to misappropriation, and then we have good complaints. I heard that the representative pointed out that the child who was born was a Norwegian citizen in this case. It may be, but it actually shows some of the challenges associated with the direction that, among other things, The representative Toppe wants to take us into account, namely to make more and more detailed rules. For example, I wanted to. that it would lead to even greater confusion about having a legislation if the child was a Norwegian national and another legislation if the child was not a Norwegian national.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e352	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e355	It is commendable that the Centre Party is calling for health care for paperless people. At the same time, it's a paradox that the same party is voting for the same people not to be allowed to receive money aid. The Christian People's Party has had a proposal for the right to health care for the paperless, who was voted down in this Chamber. We will propose it again, and we will be betting on greater support in the Chamber for it. Then I heard that the council replied that he was satisfied with the legislation as it was. How does the Council of State think that a person without papers and permission to be here should be able to know about Norwegian complaints and take advantage of it? And will the Council of State take the chance that patients will refrain from health care, and that life can be lost, as a result of not knowing about the scheme, or not having the opportunity to pay, or, as the third, that if they complain and have to wait for a complaint response, will the bill increase even more?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e364	First, I just want to stress that I do not want to join the term ‘paperless’. Persons residing illegally in Norway are not paperless. On the contrary, many of them have a lot of paperwork and are in quite extensive proceedings. I also believe that it is important that we ensure that people receive the health care they are entitled to. Experience has shown that it is very rare for people who are illegally living in Norway and who are giving birth to children in Norway to be billed at all, precisely because this is practiced wisely in hospitals — in large hospitals with experience of this often, as in Oslo and in Stavanger and elsewhere. So I think it might be very unfortunate if the Storting chooses to change the regulation based on a single story, in a situation where the general impression is that this code is practiced in line with what was the intention of the Storting at the time it was discussed, namely in a liberal way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e373	André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e376	The previous representative points out that there are many paradoxes in this case, not least what we pointed out, but it is also a paradox when it is pointed out that this does not work, and that it is different practice. Then the council turns out to be satisfied with the practice and administration of the red-green legislation, which is deficient. This is what I and, in particular, the director of the Medical Association, who has recently been involved, should have been corrected. This does not apply only to pregnant women. I would also like to follow up on this: will the Council of State now help ensure that everyone in need of emergency treatment is treated? Of course, feeding requires emergency treatment, but there are several things that may come under the term ‘acute’. The different practices in Norway today in this respect concern us. Has the Council considered this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e381	It's not just immediate help you have the right to get; it's also about health care that can't wait. It is a significantly wider concept than emergency aid. Everyone in Norway has the right to do so. What one here is discussing is whether this should be free of charge also for people who are staying illegally in Norway or who are staying in Norway without exercising their rights. Extending access to Norwegian healthcare, free of charge, for anyone who comes to Norway, whether they have acquired rights or not, I would warn against. This will mean that many people can come to Norway and take advantage of a very good health service also for healthcare that cannot wait, but is still not acute, and expect to have it covered without acquiring rights. It's a development I want to warn against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e386	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e390	Governments are right that these people's problems are not a lack of paper; there is a lack of paper with a residence permit. Their human rights are also the responsibility of the government. I think there is a lot of bureaucratic response from the Minister of Health. I wish the Minister of Health once was able to show compassion for the people it is about, show concern for what happens when people don't dare to visit the health care system when they need it. But that concern obviously doesn't have the Council of States, and I think that's a pity. It would have been easy to send a clear signal to the health service that now a safe pregnant woman’s ability to give birth free of charge. I do not believe that the Minister of Health seriously believes that this would lead to a mass immigration of pregnant women. It's an unprofessional argument. I wish that the Council of State did not use it, and that instead the Council of State could give us a different reason why he would not now take advantage of the opportunity to send a clear signal. It's obvious that the government's attitude is that the government really doesn't think this is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e395	I think these are pretty strong words from someone who has been the Council of State and responsible for the legislation that is now being practised, because this code was clarified just when Audun Lysbakken and SV were in government. What I did initially in this questionnaire was just to highlight what is very important, and as I have also done externally, namely that no one should be concerned that they are not getting help in the Norwegian healthcare system, completely regardless of the status of stay in Norway, as long as there is immediate help or medical care that is urgent. Nor should they be concerned about getting a bill that they cannot pay. If they have such a bad economy that they cannot pay this bill, they should not have it either. If they feel that they have an unfair bill, they have good complaints. When we look at the practice in our hospitals, the representative is not trying to create the impression that pregnant women who are staying illegally in Norway get a bill when they are born in Norwegian hospitals, on the contrary: the practice is that hospitals handle this code very wisely, and very few of these patients get a bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e404	The next main question is from Sveinung Rotevatn.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e407	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy. Today, the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left, put forward a common strategy on how Norway should contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the world. As a rich nation, and not least as a nation that has made itself rich, among other things. to release large amounts of greenhouse gases, we have a great responsibility to prevent harmful climate change. Before we reach the decisive climate summit in Paris, everyone has a responsibility to raise the level of ambition. It does so now, by proposing climate targets that are in line with the recommendations of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The agreement reached by the four parties set ambitious targets for Norway to contribute to emission reductions of at least 40 pst. towards 2030, and we are even more committed to EU climate cooperation, the most ambitious in the world. My question to the Council of State on what consequences he sees that what we have now been some of the ambitions and cuts will have for Norwegian energy policy in the future. Among other things, EU countries are now some of the new mandatory targets for renewable energy production, which will probably also apply to Norway. In Norway, we have a proud story when it comes to cutting down the EU's renewable requirements, but we get to believe that there is something that belongs to the past. The EU is also working on reasonable ambitious plans for a new energy union. How closely does the Council of State see Norway's commitment to this work? He realizes that the goal of 40 pst. would climate change have to lead to a clear increase in the level of ambition for Norwegian renewable energy production? In that case, what would be the current means of achieving it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e416	Let me first congratulate the representative, Rotevatn, on the agreement that has been presented today. One of the greatest challenges we have to face together for the industrialised part of the world and also globally, for all countries, is the climate challenges of the decades ahead. The fact that we have a liberal economy in Norway comes partly as a result of many years of oil and gas production on Norwegian soil. It also enables us to implement a very ambitious climate policy. I want to draw up some of the things the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party agree on, for example. rainforest bet, SEK 1.6 billion. kr to the UN Green Climate Fund and reach the agreement today, which says that we should have as ambitious objectives as the EU. What we have presented today means that it is more demanding for us, which is a pure renewable power nation, to achieve these objectives than it is for the EU. What has now been presented is also said to want to increase the production of renewable energy in Norway in order to contribute to a more renewable energy mix in Europe, both through increased exports of power and by facilitating increased exports of power-processed products from Norway, for example. silicon and aluminium, as we all know, will be an important input in building more energy-efficient and climate-friendly in Norway, in Europe and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e425	I thank you for your answer. One thing is renewable energy production in Norway, another is the fossil oil and gas sector. Although it is a sector that makes important contributions to Norwegian welfare and value creation, it is hardly contributing very constructively to the slowing down of global greenhouse gas emissions. The government has warned that they're willing to let the oil and gas industries go even further north, in the areas around the important ice edge, where the biological deficiency is very vulnerable, and where it's so demanding to drive extraction that one needs completely different oil prices than the ones we see today, to defend activity. How does the Council of State think that the ambitions to release oil and gas industries increasingly north are rife with the ambitions we are now experiencing about a large reduction in Norwegian and European greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e432	In its first question, the representative Rotevatn was concerned with Norwegian energy cooperation with the EU. One of the EU's concerns in its energy strategy is Norwegian insurance that we can facilitate the continued export of gas from Norwegian socket to Europe. It is important for the European Union, and it is important for the citizens of Europe. Exports of gas into the European energy mix also contribute to a more sustainable, more climate-efficient energy mix than would have been if the same energy had been produced with coal power, as the case is to a large extent today. Then I want to remind you that it works somewhere between 200,000 and 300,000 people with oil and gas in Norway. If those people have a job to go to after 2020-2025, new areas are absolutely necessary for that industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e439	It opens for follow-up questions – first Iselin Nybø.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e442	Today's agreement is not only a pleasant agreement, but also an agreement that is incredibly important to the climate. But it does not stop in 2030 – we must also look further. The government has announced that in 2015 there will be a big message that looks at energy, climate and industrial policy in the context. That is good, but it is even more important that there is a green thread between what is agreed today and what is presented in this Communication. In the view of the Left, such a message must make it clear that we are building what we need from renewable energy and power grids to replace all Norwegian fossil energy use by 2050. In line with today's good news, we also believe that we need to point out some clear goals for 2030, among other things. fossil energy use shall be reduced by 50 pst. in relation to the 2012 level. Can the Minister confirm that he shares these completely necessary ambitions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e449	I can confirm to the Left, the other cooperation parties and the Stortinget that I am pleased to discuss the Energy Communication in Stortinget. Energy policy is not a policy area suitable for the fighting, depending on the changing majority in the Storting. That is why it is important that the cooperation parties find a good way to agree on the broad lines of that communication, but it is also an objective for me to get the widest possible majority in the Biggest behind the main lines of the development of energy policy. Then the government has great ambitions to facilitate a more renewable society, a low-carbon society, in the time ahead. We've already said with the cooperation parties that in terms of stationary use of fossil energy, we're going to increase the level of ambition based on what's been grounded in the past. So I want to say here we're already well started.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e456	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e460	We have today presented a settlement with a measure for 2030. It is clear that it is important, but the debate on the future measures will become even more important, and it will not least be about Norwegian energy policy. It is a pity that one last night voted in favour of a proposal in the Stortinget from the Central Party, SV and the Greens, among others. setting a renewable target for 2030-2050 and also setting an energy efficiency improvement target. Norway also has the opportunity to do a lot of things in the field of bioenergy. It's possible -- we often say that one can go from black carbon to green carbon -- to replace coal with biocarbon. It is possible to replace natural gas with biogas. It is possible to go from fossil fuel oil to bioenergy. However, it requires that you also have a forest bet, and that you have a bet related to processing it that you can generate bioenergy from. The question is, is that part of the deal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e467	Now the representative Arnstad within the constitutional responsibility of up to several other state councils. Let me first start by saying, what is the United Nations now asking for? The UN is asking for a target from us – what we on the Norway side are going to deliver against the important negotiations in Paris for the autumn. The government, together with the cooperation parties, has said something about this today. As I said, we are as ambitious as the EU, and that means that it is going to be more demanding to deliver on the part of Norway, which has clean renewable power generation as the basis for its energy system. With regard to the question of bioenergy, we have chosen overall technology-neutral mechanisms to phase new renewable energy into the Norwegian system. There has been a broad political consensus on this. I think it's a wise choice. In addition, we have said that Enova should manage the funds from the Environment Fund, and those funds can include, among other things, is used to reduce emissions from Norwegian industry and energy consumption in Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e476	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e479	I understand that the oil and energy minister is pleased with today's agreement, because one of the major disappointments in it is that the lack of a clear national target, which also includes the quota sector, will reduce the pressure for measures to cut emissions on the base and make us more dependent on the dysfunctional quota market of the EU. But I want to follow up on the question of the Barents Sea. Researchers at University College London recently presented new research, and they believe that the two-degree target is incompatible with the Arctic oil industry. It will simply be that if those resources are to be used, we will be a place where the total use of fossil energy in the world will be too large to achieve the climate goals. In such a light it is obvious that the discussion we should now have was a review of the concession round that the oil and energy minister recently wanted. What does the minister know, that the scientists in London don't know?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e488	I know, among other things. that, according to the definition of the researchers to which the representative Lysbakken referred, I am one of about. a half a million Northmen born in the Arctic. The Norwegian Arctic looks completely different from the Arctic in all other parts of the world. It's a completely different climate, it's a completely different social structure, and there's completely different climatic and geographical conditions for petroleum activity in North Norway – because it's North Norway we're talking about. There we have, among other things: Seeing that in the election, parties that have been most opposed to oil and gas activity may have lost one deposit representative from North Norway, maybe two – which may even be from the SV party – so I believe that we have a good basis for further work, with the framework that SV himself agreed to in the previous accumulation period.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e495	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e498	As both the representative Rotevatn and the representative Lysbakken have been in the process, the new climate strategy presented by the government today implies that the quota sector is part of an EU target of 40 pst. cut in any way that will appear later. However, in its replies today, the Council of State has made it quite clear that it would not be reasonable to expect that this would have any effect on the oil and gas industry in Norway. Can the Council of States confirm that one of the first clarifications we have now received since this morning's presentation of a new climate policy is that climate policy will not affect the level of activity in oil and gas activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e503	I can at first confirm that we have for the activity on Norwegian pedestal the clearly strictest climate regime any industry anywhere in the world is exposed to. I believe many in this Chamber have contributed to this. It helps Norwegian base operators work every single day targeted to produce as efficiently as possible in order to pick up those resources with the lowest greenhouse gas emissions. I believe that all of us who have contributed to the development of this industry, among others. in this room, shall be proud of. So we know that this huge growth in coal consumption is the main driver of climate change – no one disagrees. I remind you that the EU is concerned that we will continue to facilitate the export of gas from Norwegian socket to the EU, also because it contributes to lower CO2 emissions from the European energy mix. That's what I'm busy facilitating.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e513	There will be follow-up questions – Åsmund Aukrust.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e516	After weeks of environmental wrangling with its supporting parties, we must congratulate the government today on reaching an agreement and a settlement, and then in the Workers' Party we look forward to going in and seeing what this consensus implies. Over the next decades, we're going to create the low-emission society, which is a quite different society from what we live today. It is then important that the debates on objectives do not stand in the way of the very important debates on what action we are taking today and tomorrow. Because that's now we're creating the low-emission society. Although there are many decades ahead, it is the choices we make today that are crucial to that. The Minister for Oil and Energy is definitely very responsible. Yesterday, the Stortinget decided to present a case on how to replace fossil energy with renewable energy, the energy mix in Norway. I wonder what kind of case the minister sees for himself, and what responsibility he sees for having in the important job of replacing fossil energy with renewables.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e528	I want to repeat what I said instead: together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have already said that we want to go more cash and faster with phasing out fossil energy in the building mass, first with state and public buildings, then by facilitating that it can happen in other parts of the building mass. Our energy policy is among the most offensive for electrification and reduced emissions from the car fleet. The result of this year's budgetary settlement is inter alia: far more people can buy lower-emission hybrid cars. So here I believe that we are doing well both to increase the production of renewable energy, which, in my opinion, the new majority has delivered far more in the one and a half years we've been sitting on, than the red-green climate of eight years, and to phase out fossil energy from the Norwegian energy mix. And then we get back -- we haven't pulled over with the energy message in a day, which we've been wearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e534	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e537	My question goes to the Minister of Health and Care. Last Friday we were able to read about the help nurses Karin Rones and Anne Karin Nilsen who, after many decades of faithful service in the care of the elderly in Oslo, looked to retire. But because of the local government's competitive outsourcing of the hospital they worked for, they have been told that they have to work another five years. They work in the Red Twentieth Hospital, which has been taken over by Attendo. There are pension deposits significantly lower than in the municipality. While the Municipality of Oslo has a vesting period of 30 years, the vesting period is 40 years private. The two assistants reached 62 years of age right after the redwashed nursing home was exposed to competition, and they are now losing the right to the AFP. I invited the two help nurses here today, since their case would come up in Stortinget. They didn't have time for that, because they're doing a good job in old age care in Oslo right now. That's why I want to borrow their words, with what they said to the Free Trade Movement on Friday – I quote: ‘It was a shock to me to know that the acquisition of Athens stopped the pension plans. My husband left now, we should have time together." Nilsen said that. “I’ve been working for 30 years, it’s my pension money.”...“And then you get such a depression, they just dump you!” That's what Rones said. Fabian Stag, on the other hand, said: ‘I hope they have the strength to do so.’ This is just one of many examples we are now looking at pension dumping in relation to the outsourcing of elderly care. While nurses have a statutory claim to retain their pension by decisions taken in the Stortingen many years ago, the same lack of caregivers and health professionals. That's why this is a national question. My question to the Minister of Health is what the government will do to stop this kind of pension dumping in health and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e568	This is a question that includes how municipalities handle the purchase of private care services when they choose to put this out for competition. There have been no changes to the legislation in that area since the acquisition of the Right-Fremskrit Party Government. This means that the municipalities of Oslo and other municipalities handle this within the current legislation and systems. The common feature is the rules relating to business transfer, such as: shall respect the rights of employees. What often happens in this context, or in some cases, is going from defined benefit pensions to defined contribution pensions. I want to think that it's a little bit special to present these pensions in the way that the representative does. It is, of course, the type of pensions and pension entitlements that many in Norway have. The vast majority of those who work in the private sector have that kind of pensions today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e575	I'm not the one making these pension schemes in a certain way. I'm just referring to how this affects real people, and there's a lot of them around the country. It is a group for which the Minister of Health should feel a special responsibility, because many of them have made a great but also arduous, effort in health care and care for the elderly. It is possible to stop this if we give the help nurses the same statutory right to maintain their pension level as the nurses have. That's why my first question to the Minister of Health about the government will go along with that. The second question is whether the picture we are now looking at of the working conditions and pension conditions of competitive health homes does not concern the Minister of Health about the recruitment of the profession. We have a big challenge in getting enough health professionals in the years to come. In that case, the terms and conditions of our working lives must be a very important priority for the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e582	Now the representative asks me about issues that are not under my constitutional responsibility but under the responsibility of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. But the government has no plans to transfer this responsibility from the social partners to a regulated situation, and I have not recorded that it was a real discussion of it in the previous eight years. It is usually the case that when I discuss questions about private health care with the representative Lysbakken, his crown argument is that the private have such good pay conditions that it will dampen the public health service for employees. I now register that the Lighthouse has a completely different input into this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e589	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Kirsti Bergstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e592	My supplementary question is to the councillor Horne. The council has said that she is a everyday feminist, and few things are probably more important for the everyday life of good adult women than what kind of pension you have. Women are overrepresented in the health sector in general and among the help workers and health professionals in particular. Experience with the privatisation of nursing homes shows that it threatens the pension conditions of employees — who are mainly women. My question to the minister is: is the minister concerned about the pension of health care heroes, such as Karin Rones and Anne Karin Nilsen? And how does the Minister think that this kind of pension dumping will affect the economic differences between women and men?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e601	The representative asked me a question that would rather go to the Minister of Labour. We are all aware that here are the social partners that need to agree, and something that we as government authorities are not going to go into. So it's important: we need female jobs, we need female labour into the health sector, and we also need men into the health sector. It's important in the future, and we need more. In the area of responsibility that I have – we also see that in the case of child protection services – it is private that submits tenders, and places good pay conditions and pension conditions in their bids that take care of the individual employee. When it comes to this particular topic that was raised here now, it is also the employee and employer organisations that have to take responsibility for having good conditions for their employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e612	Tove Karoline Knutsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e615	My supplementary question goes to the Minister of Health and Care. If we are to have good care services in the future, we need sufficient and good professional skills in the sector. If we don't have it, it's not useful with law enforcement and right to neither one thing nor the other. We have some experience of what happens when we privatise and commercialise a labour-intensive sector such as care and care. We have extensive research, including: This has been presented by NOVA, which shows that both the use of skilled and the quality of commercial institutions, when compared with public and non-profit institutions, is declining. In Sweden, under the civil government, four–five large international health groups took over all commercial operations of this sector and took millions of dollars out of the country as dividends. My question is: why in all the world at large does the government, including the Minister of Health, want us to have more of this policy – that it is a good thing to privatise and commercialise a vulnerable sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e628	Again, the representative addresses issues related to the use of private and non-profit institutions by municipalities in the care and care sector. There have been no changes in the legislation relating to it; it is up to the municipalities to assess for themselves what is an appropriate use of private persons in addition to the public offer they have. The research from the NOVA to which the representative refers is a research which mainly involves: is based on results from the United States, and one may find it difficult to see that it is transferable to Norway in view of a significantly stricter both national legislation and the contract work applicable to Norwegian workers. In terms of why there is also a positive impact on private actors in this area, this is a case in point. that history has shown that our welfare society has been driven in many ways by the private and ideals. They have often seen needs that the public has not seen, and have also seen new ways of working that the public has not seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e640	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e643	When the theme is the privatisation of welfare services, the negotiations on the Tisa Agreement are a topical issue. We see from Norway's opening offer, so-called 'initial sacrifices', that it has services such as: dental services, veterinary services and maternity services are open for business establishment in Norway for the other Tisa countries, known as ‘commercial presence’. After the negotiations have been going on for over a year, after these initial offers have been placed on the table, there is reason to believe that there have been significant changes in the bonds to which Norway has committed itself. My question to the Minister for Health is this: Has there been any change in Norway's supply related to the health sector in the negotiations on the Tisa agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e650	Now the representative goes into a relatively detailed level within an area for which I do not have the constitutional responsibility, so the representative has to almost ask that question to the responsible State Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e655	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e658	A few days ago, we showed how long it is for patients who need an examination for gastric cancer. The paradox is that they can get to private clinics quickly, but there is a long wait in Norwegian health care because there is a lack of gastrologists, i.e. the same patients get to the private sector faster, there are professionals, but they have gone to the private sector. How does the Council of State think that we as a public authority should ensure good, competent public workers who are assured that they have a career opportunity, a research opportunity and a development opportunity, and who use new forms of research precisely to ensure that we do not lose out on the labour force in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e665	I very much agree with the representative that it is important that the public health service is a good employer. I think maybe one of the contributions to that is to experience that they're not alone in offering people a job in their area. I think maybe a little bit of the challenge has been that one has taken their employees for granted. One shouldn't do that. One should facilitate good working conditions and good development opportunities. There the public has a major competitive advantage over, among other things: the presence of the representative, the possibility of offering research and development opportunities which are often completely different in public hospitals. Then it's also important from the patient's perspective that we use the capacity of the private to solve the important public health issues. It has, among other things, ready to do in breast cancer when one has good cooperation agreements with the private, so that it becomes an offer used to reduce the waiting time that is in the public domain, and that is exactly what we want to achieve through the establishment of the package process.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e672	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e675	My question goes to the Minister for Gender Equality. The Governing Councils have overall responsibility for gender equality in the government and are thus also responsible for ensuring that other government councils make gender impact assessments in the work they carry out. Therefore, it was good that the Council of State sent a letter to the Minister of Labour and pointed out the obvious fact that more temporaryity in the labour environment law affects women separately, because women are more affected by temporaryity than men. In addition, women have a weaker relationship with the labour market and, as pointed out in the Council of State's letter, it is well documented. The letter asked the Council of State to carry out a gender impact assessment of the proposals submitted, as required by the investigation manual. What was the response of the Council of State to that impact assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e684	As the representative of Aasrud is familiar with, as the former Council of State, the government has an investigation instruction that is now for renewal. In that investigation manual, the Ministry of Constitutional Affairs is responsible for, when matters are being dealt with, pointing out that an impact assessment is to be carried out. Like the Minister of Finance who makes us state councils aware that the economic conditions of each case need to be assessed consistently, I, as constitutionally responsible for equality policy, have responsibility for the fact that the state councils also highlight the gender implications of matters. I have full confidence that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has done this on the issue of the Working Environment Act, and I am very pleased that we are now putting in place a work environment law that can, with both tournaments and temporaryity, make it easier for women to get out of work. The proposal now on the table will make it easier for women to get to work. There will also be opportunities for tournaments, in which there are many women working. The proposal will allow you to get other tournaments, giving more jobs and a better offer to the users. Temporary workers currently account for approximately 40% of the total number of women employed. 10 pst. by all employees in Norway. Denmark, e.g. has more liberal employment protection for permanent employment than for both Norway and Sweden and also has extended access to temporary employment. As a result, they do not have so many temporary workers. In fact, Norway has several of them. I have full confidence that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, with the new Labour Environment Act, will also ensure the gender implications, and that the proposal on the table for treatment in the Storting will also lead to the speeding up of the entry of minority women into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e695	I think it is quite eye-catching what the Minister for Equal Opportunities is now responding to, because it is confirmed here that the impact assessment of gender equality related to the changes that are now proposed in the Working Environment Act has not been implemented. I think it is quite special that the Minister for Gender Equality believes that more temporary employment will be good for women. It only goes into a number of issues in which the Minister for Gender Equality has not had an impact on the government for the issues related to equality. We heard that, among other things: in the previous answer, where there is no difference in pension conditions and pay and working conditions between women and men is considered to be a matter for the Minister for Gender Equality. When the Council of State does not get through when she first takes up a real matter, is it only to send a letter to the Minister, and not to ensure that an investigation actually takes place, as the Minister has pointed out and asked?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e700	As a State Council, I have made a note of the Working Environment Act which was then being treated by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, asking for these consequences to be highlighted. I fully support the work that the government has put before Stortinget with the new Work Environment Act. Let me just say that regular employment should still be the general rule in Norwegian working life. Temporary employment can be a way into working life for permanent employment, especially for minority women who want to try out in the workplace, but it may be difficult to get full jobs. Now, with the possibility of temporary employment, they have the chance to try. We also know that there are many women who are working the tour, as I was about to do in my previous answer, who can try temporary employment. I believe that the embellishment to which the government is now putting forward will also ensure the gender impact for both women and men in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e708	There will be follow-up questions – Lise Christoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e711	The word 'grapid' is mentioned only three times in two propositions dealing with the Working Environment Act. Birth rates are falling, and women are already overrepresented in terms of temporary employment, so I have a yes- or no-question: Is the rights of pregnant women to increase the use of temporary employment one of the questions that the Council of State, according to its hearing opinion, considered to be too poorly investigated?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e716	This was a debate we had in Stortinget last week, where the representative Aasrud put in an interview about the precise protection of discrimination for pregnant women. I would like to stress that the protection against discrimination against pregnant workers applies in the same way to temporary employment as to permanent employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e721	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e733	The President will inform the representatives that there are currently no changes to the list of questions drawn up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e740	At Grini in Bærum, right next to the old prisoner camp from World War II, former prisoners over time have built a small museum. The museum gives a unique insight into how life as a prisoner was during the war. Until now, the museum has been run on a voluntary basis by those who sat at Grini. Many of them have gone away or are becoming so old that continued operations are soon to be history. Can the Council of State give its assessment of how Norway can ensure this important historical material and the future operation of the museum in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e745	Thank you to the representative Marianne Aasen for a good question. There is no doubt that the Grini Museum in Bærum represents a unique cultural memory from the war, and that it is also important history that links itself to this place. Grini camp was the largest political camp in Norway during World War II, with a total of more than 20,000 prisoners. In 2015 it was 75 years since World War II started in Norway, and 70 years since our country became free. The cultural memory authorities have the cultural memories of the war as their main activity in 2015, and municipalities and county municipalities in this context are requested to engage. In view of this, it is natural, and also timely, that questions are asked about the Grini Museum. Since the opening of the museum in 1996, the Friends of the Grini Museum Foundation has done a great deal of work to ensure evidence of the prison life of Grini for future generations. This is a private initiative, with considerable and good voluntary efforts being made. A particularly important result is that the foundation has been brought back to Grini the only remaining original prisoner wreck. This setback has undoubtedly much to say about the possibility of having new generations of life on Grini during the war. I am aware that the Grini Museum has been working for several years to establish a documentation centre in the Grini quarry. Furthermore, it is planned to establish an auditorium for the reception of school grades and other visitors. In addition, there are plans to set up a museum room in addition to the current one, to give more space to share the story of Grini's prison life. The museum received support, for example: from the municipality of Bærum and the Ministry of Defence for the removal and rehabilitating of the wreck, but there is still no specific need for both documentation centre, new auditorium and new museum premises. In 2010, during the previous ageing period, the Grini Museum sought the Ministry of Knowledge. They transferred the application to the Ministry of Culture, which decided to forward the application to the Norwegian Cultural Council, which at that time did not prioritise grants for that purpose. Communicating our war history is an important part of the cultural heritage that should be preserved, including for future generations, and the Grini Museum has comprehensive plans for it. I can therefore assure you that an application for state aid will be dealt with in depth in the ordinary budgetary procedure. And then I want to add that since this is about a very small unit in museum context, it might be useful if the Grini Museum considered the possibility of connecting to a larger museum.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e754	Thank you for a good answer. I think we got a good deal of information on how the Minister of Culture and the Ministry of Culture assesses the place of the Grini Museum in Norwegian war history. But now it's starting to rush a little -- that's what's the challenge -- because the deadlines are getting old, combined with an increased interest in war history. Among other things, the interest was aroused by the «Campe about the heavy water» – the TV series that has gone on the NRK. At the same time, we know that there are several places in Norway where this is a problem issue. We've also had a discussion about North Norway's place in our memory from what happened, whether it's researched enough on the war story from there, and whether it's well taken care of with institutions there. Does the Minister of Culture see fit to take a larger approach with a holistic perspective, i.e. a national plan for the cultural history of World War II?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e761	As I said in my answer, this is a very important measure. It is important for future generations to keep history, so that that dissemination is available. This is clearly something we will look at, but it is clear that this has budgetary implications and that we need to deal with it in the context of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e766	Thank you for that. There are some institutions in Norway that I was in. We have the Narvik Center, we have the Falstad Center, we have the HL Center on Bygdøy, which is more known as the Holocaust Center, we have the Grini Museum, which was taken up especially here, we have the Archives in Kristiansand, and there are also more than those I now mention, around the country of Norway. As a long-standing big business representative, I know that every fall there are many representatives from these fine institutions who are asking for more money, preferably 500 000 – 1000 000 kroner, which they want us to put in the budgets. What is missing in this context is to put this into a broader perspective and see a whole: how can you allocate the tasks, how can you structure them better, how can you view all these centres in a larger strategic context? What does the Council of State think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e771	I think there's a lot of good input coming, and there's been a big discussion in the media too over the last few weeks about this. As I said, this is an important part of our story to take care of. That is something we want to look at, but at the end of the day it is also economic consequences, and we need to look at that in the budgetary context.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e780	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Climate and Environment: ‘The Ministry of Climate and Environment announced on 23 December 2014 that they would lay down a temporary regulation for the continuation of ski runs for the seven municipalities that have had ski runs since 2001 and a regulatory text was sent to the hearing. On 23 January of this year, KLD amended its legal position and now considers that it is not justified to lay down such a regulation as the Ministry itself has drafted. What activity after the hearing meeting on 6 January is the explanation of the most surprising, and for the municipality very problematic, the change of the case?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e789	The Ministry of Climate and Environment invited on 22 December 2014 to a hearing to obtain the opinion of the hearing bodies on a temporary regulation on the use of snowmobile loops in the former test municipalities Sirdal, Vinje, Lom, Stor-Elvdal, Røros, Hattfjelldal and Fauske out in winter 2014/2015. My department clearly stated in the letter of consultation that such a regulation requires a legal basis, and that there were arguments against such a provision in existing legislation. However, we stated that we meant that the motor trade law § 4, second paragraph, provided sufficient authority. The assessment of the basis of reference is a question of difficult legal considerations, and after a new assessment, the Ministry found that the basis of the law on motor travel is so unclear that the law on motor travel hardly provides sufficient grounds for opening up purely pleasure driving, as is the case in the municipalities concerned. We did not want to risk a crime, so we decided not to lay down such a regulation. I am sorry for the disadvantages this entails for the municipalities concerned. In the light of the history of this case, where the Department, among others, I was charged with a criminal offence as a result of the now terminated trial under the law of public administration, but I am convinced that it was right not to extend the law further than we are absolutely certain that there are grounds for doing so. I am sure the President will agree with me that the Department will comply with Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e798	Of course, you shouldn't break the law, and be careful about stretching it too far, but it's strange that you don't clarify it until you start a big and comprehensive process. As I said, the municipalities were invited to the hearing meeting on 6 January, where the department presented this proposal for a new regulation, and without any objection from any of the participants, to the fact that the test municipalities were to keep their boat runs until the new law was in place. In addition, the municipalities suspended their exemption applications. The Ministry's turnaround has put the municipalities in a very difficult situation with their inhabitants and users. My follow-up question is then: If the basis of the ruling was doubtful, why did the Ministry not clarify this before sending out a draft regulation and calling for the hearing, which both created expectations and incurred costs for the municipalities concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e803	The Ministry did not promise a solution. In the letter of hearing, we invited you to a meeting to get the hearing bodies’ views on a temporary regulation. At the hearing we promised a quick clarification. I know that the clarification came a little later than any of the hearing bodies hoped, but the clarification came only two and a half weeks after the hearing. As I said in my previous answer, the case led to difficult legal assessments, which took time. But we thought that this is the way the law is, this was outside the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e808	The participants at the meeting realized very clearly that a solution had to be found. The Ministry has also kept its reasons for the turnaround. Both the municipalities and the USS have asked for transparency to see the justification. But now leave it, because now it looks like it might be possible to get a quick solution. Yesterday, a representative proposal was submitted in Stortinget, which will be discussed tomorrow, as far as I understand it. This proposal allows the municipalities concerned, Hattfjelldal, Fauske, Vinje, Sirdal, Stor-Elvdal, Lom and Røros, to use the snowmobile out this winter season. This is good, and it will be very important that this can be implemented immediately, as several of these municipalities have pending dispensations. In addition, we see business operators for whom this is of great importance, who assess both objections and leave. I therefore wonder when the municipalities can implement this if the Stortinget makes a positive decision regarding this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e813	If the Stortinge adopts a temporary legal provision that provides the home that is not available today, so that the municipalities concerned can use their leopards, I am pleased with that, and we should find a quick clarification on it if the Stortinge decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e822	‘In its hospital speech, the Council has outlined three different models for emergency hospitals. According to these plans, hospitals with a population base of less than 20–30000 will not be able to have an emergency response at all. Odd hospitals in Hordaland have a patient base below this limit. The speech of the Council of State has led to uncertainties for Odda Hospital. Does the Council of State believe that Odda Hospital does not need an emergency medical response in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e829	In the hospital speech in January, I presented three possible models for the emergency hospital of the future. The models will be highlighted in a national health and hospital plan. I have not launched any plan to change the emergency medical response in any hospital now. My plan is that the Stortinget should be presented with a national health and hospital plan for the harvest. When examining this plan, I invite Stortinget to define the principles underlying the hospital structure of the future, and which models we will choose for the emergency hospital of the future. The representative Kjersti Toppe points out that the organisation of emergency medical emergency services in hospitals is essential for the public to receive safe and good health care when urgent. I would like to add that it is also essential how we organise the overall service provision of emergency services both inside and outside the hospital. The population shall be covered by a high-quality continuous emergency service throughout the country. That is precisely why we need to look closely at how to divide the tasks between the emergency hospital of the future, and how to fit different types of hospitals into the whole chain of emergency services – from medical and ambulance services to emergency services in small and large hospitals. This has to be connected. And patients should know that it's safe to be a patient in all parts of the healthcare that meets us when it's urgent. The future emergency hospital should have clear and predictable tasks. They must be part of an obliging network of larger and smaller hospitals that together ensure a good emergency provision for the population. I think we are wise to look at whether the logic of when the hospital was established will continue to hold for the future, given the major changes with increased needs for hospital services, advanced new processes that should benefit everyone, an increasing and ageing population, new housing patterns, communication possibilities and transport routes, and a very difficult consideration for me, namely that the patient's best interests must weigh more heavily in the organisation of the healthcare service of the future. In the three alternative models I have launched for the future emergency hospital, the population base is one of several criteria that can be used to define different types of hospitals. But it can never be the only thing. I want to make a recommendation to the Stortinget to ensure a further decentralised hospital structure in Norway. In our country, we must take into account geography, weather, distances and feasibility when thinking about emergency preparedness. No matter what model the Stortinget gathers around in the treatment of the national health and hospital plan, I am sure that the framework to be provided will ensure that local and regional considerations are taken into account in determining the role and tasks of individual hospitals for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e842	Thanks for the answer. It is important for all hospitals, which are knowledge establishments, that operations are sustainable – not just for the next year, but for years to come. It is therefore a concern when waiting for a national health and hospital plan and a state council that launches some population boundaries without talking about geographical considerations. Odd hospitals are one of the very least hospitals in Norway with full emergency preparedness and have experienced major shutdowns, but they have a health care unit that today – I was at a meeting there on Monday – does not have plans to change the alert, and that is positive. The question to the Council of State is whether he can guarantee that a national health and hospital plan will not come and review the health service, which means that there must be an emergency response in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e853	To be honest, there is a slightly special question from a representative who has fought with me for many years in order for the Stortinget to deal with a national health and hospital plan that has an impact on the development of the hospital structure in Norway. It would be very special if I were to stand in the Great Council today and guarantee that the plan for which we have jointly fought would have no significance for the hospital structure in Norway for the future. Then it's not the plan that the representative Top, I, the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have been concerned about and have fought for; it would be a completely different plan. I think we have to assume that the representative Toppe and I agree that we need a national health and hospital plan that is anchored in the Stortinget. I also believe that we agree that it should contain some principles and criteria on how the hospital structure in Norway should be, which are better anchored in democracy in Norway, and I think that we are both in favour of an open and democratic debate, and that is why it is a good idea that we should present different alternatives before the plan is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e860	The Minister of Health and Health thinks it's a strange question when I ask him to guarantee emergency surgery especially in Odda. But that's not a strange question, because the Minister of Health and Health has gone out in the media and guaranteed emergency services at Tynset. He has gone out and guaranteed emergency services in Hammerfest and Kirkenes, and then it's not unthinkable that I, as a magnificent representative from Hordaland, am in the hands of the hospitals on his list who, after his speeches, could be interpreted as being at risk of losing the emergency response, ask if Odda could not obtain a guarantee from either the Council of State or the Secretary of State, as they have received from the three other named hospitals, in Uppland and in the North.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e865	But that was not what the representative Toppe asked me either. The question asked me by the representative Toppe was whether I could guarantee that the national health and hospital plan, after it was dealt with in the Stortinget, would have no consequences for the local hospital structure. That was the question I answered, and it seemed to me to be a bit of a special question given that I have experienced that the Centre Party has fully agreed with the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in that such an important issue should be enshrined in a national health and hospital plan, where one adds some principles, which in the next round is actually leading to the development of the offer. It's true that I've been out there and being clear that a very clear example of taking geographical considerations is Finnmark. It's because it would be unimaginable to imagine a state as large as Finnmark where one didn't have two hospitals that also had a 24-hour surgical preparedness. This is an example of the importance of stressing the need for geographical consideration in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e876	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice and Security the following questions: ‘In Oslo neighbourhoods, police are doing a good job of preventing radicalisation and recruitment to violent extremist networks. However, those who work with this have pointed out that the obligation of professional secrecy between schools, child protection, health, Nav and others. and the police create problems in concrete cooperation to prevent them. They believe that good data protection can be ensured even if there is a better legal opportunity to exchange information. How does the Council of State assess the need to make legislative changes in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e885	Let me first thank you for a good and important question from the representative of Bohemia. Among other things, the action plan ‘A good childhood outlives’, which is a plan of measures to combat violence and sexual abuse against children and young people 2014–2017, has addressed the issue raised by the representative in Action 14 related to the obligation of professional secrecy and information in the administration and how to follow it up. The aim is to arrive at a clear understanding that can replace existing supervisors and, where appropriate, lead to changes to existing regulations. Although this action plan mainly concerns themes other than those addressed by the representative of Bohemia, the action itself will also be very relevant to the fight against radicalisation and recruitment to extreme environments. So there's two central sides that I think it's important to bring in that discussion. Firstly, the problem is not always necessarily related to the legal basis or to the rules and their design. Several professionals in different fields have expressed that the rules in force, including the rules on professional secrecy, are largely sufficient to ensure the necessary exchange of information between different services and departments. It came, among other things: as reflected in a report on the topic of NOVA in the spring of 2013. The problem, according to the report, is often more related to the knowledge and practice of the legislation. Often it is not known what kind of information you can share, and what kind of information the legislation actually provides for sharing with other agencies and bodies, and often it is important to announce the framework and interpretations of the rules in external agencies, rather than necessarily to have new rules. It is important to provide a clear understanding of the legislation and to ensure that this understanding of the rules is both made known and followed up among the other levels, and that one is not influenced by a culture in which the sharing of information is initially viewed as a negative thing. Secondly, of course, it is important to look at the relevant legal frameworks. Certain legislative changes may be needed to clarify the level of professional secrecy and, to the extent that disclosure is required, and when information should be disclosed. An important objective of the work that the government will now do in the future will, of course, be to use the examples that include: The representative now moves forward, and other examples, to see if there is a need to make changes to the rules. In some areas, the government is already doing a very concrete change work, and we will come back to the Storting in the relevant way to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e898	I would like to thank you for a good and interesting answer, which is also a welcome response to the fact that this is a real problem. The understanding I have, and the description I have received, among other things. from police officers working on this issue is that there is enough evidence to show that there is a high level of professional secrecy on the premises you are going to work with, but not so good at the exceptions and opportunities to exchange information, and that there is little knowledge of the possibilities of exemption from the obligation of professional secrecy – that knowledge is far too weak. It is probably also that in parts of the police themselves it is little known, the more offensive understanding of these exceptions. I'm glad the Council of State sees that this is a real problem and will go into it. I'm just asking, can it be possible to make a guide on how to understand the obligation of professional secrecy in these contexts?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e905	My impression is very much in line with the impression that the representative Bøhler now conveys, that it is often the case that establishments which have information of protection and which are initially bound by the obligation of professional secrecy are very good at that provision, but it can also help to build over time a culture that makes it possible to be restrained from sharing information, and that the awareness of the space of opportunity that is actually in existing legislation is not good enough. Therefore, it is absolutely essential that we work to create e.g. a supervisor to compile the type of framework to be dealt with in practice. That's part of the work that we're now following up, as well as we're looking at whether it's also necessary to adjust some legal frameworks. But I think, at least based on both the impression of the representative, Bøhler, and the report from NOVA in 2013, that there is a lot that can be done with relatively simple means of sharing information and the framework to which one should relate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e910	Thank you for a good follow-up. I think it's a good idea to make a guide related to the new issues we're seeing now, especially prevention of radicalisation, where it can be difficult for those who work on it, to see how they're going to apply the current exceptions. I can just quote, for example. from the Social Services Act, which relates to part of the services to be co-operated, Section 44, third paragraph, where it states: ‘Information to other administrative bodies, cf. Section 13 of the Administrative Act may only be given where this is necessary in order to promote the municipality in the tasks of the employment and welfare management, or in order to prevent a significant risk to life or serious harm to the health of someone.» [[...]] I think that if you sit and work in an office and read this, it's hard to understand it directly as if you can share information about people who might be at risk of radicalization. So I think it's nice that you want to look at some of these legal provisions and see where you can clarify things, also in addition to making a guide.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e922	I think the representative, Mr Bøhler, and I quite agree on how one should view these issues. The government is also going to follow up. But whatever the type of legislation you want, one will have to end up in an assessment by the individuals who possess the information in each specific case. Then it's important that you have a common sense of what an actually should share, what one can share, and what one cannot share, and where the boundaries normally go. For example, a better review through the use of a supervisor or other type of information, as well as clarifying the legislation where it is needed, will be necessary to the extent that the legislation is unclear. As I mentioned in my main response, we have already identified some potential challenges, which we will return to Stortinget with in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e933	‘Criminal care is in progress in 2015, and it may be counter-centralisation and large prisons in Norway. The Mulder Island prison is one of the country’s most effective high-quality prison wards during the last solstice phase. Rehabilitation to life after atonement is important, and the goal is to get away from the environment from which they come. The prison may extend by 10-20 shelters without excessive additional costs and become larger and more robust. Will the State Councils make use of the potential of expanding the prison in Valdres?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e940	I would like to thank Mr Hagaseth for his question. Like the representative, the government is very concerned that we're going to secure enough places to live. We have major challenges with capacity today. It is therefore also important to ensure that we use the possibilities and the space for action that is. This work must, however, be carried out with a complete eye to the needs and opportunities of the whole country. For this reason, the government has also submitted a communication to the Stortinget with a development plan for crime prevention capacity. It is now being treated in the Stortinget. Priority has been given to certain areas where there is a greater need. One of these areas is, of course, the East. The East and the West and the areas around the big cities are given priority. The priority is also given to the rural areas. In addition, priority is given to measures that can be implemented quickly, simply because the need is very acute. Existing prison capacity shall be expanded where appropriate and the notification shall include a reference to the government. in the suburbs, and in the prisons of Halden, of Skien, of Åna, and of Bergen. Long-term priorities will have to be taken over time, but there is now a draft selection inquiry for the entire eastern region, where Telemark, Vestfold, Buskerud, Oslo, Akershus, Østfold, Hedmark and Oppland are affected. The question raised by the representative will be part of it, and any extension of what is called Western Upland Prison, department Valdres, which is called in popular terms for the Isle of Slime, will be carefully considered. It is also a goal for the implementation of criminal sanctions to minimise the setback to new crime. For this reason, it is also necessary to have a range of prison services with different types of shelters in order to succeed in preventing relapses. Having a breakout of people who have been in for a living is important. That's why we also have to add up to prisons with different levels of security. Then I will finally be allowed to praise the efforts of employees and prisoners from Western Upland prison, Department Valdres, do. I'm familiar with prisons, among other things. has a dedicated support group in place to create good offers and frameworks for prisoners. I myself have had the pleasure of talking to some of the people who work in prison, and getting a more direct – quite briefly, at the time – orientation about how they work, and I think it's a very exciting job.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e951	The Electoral Region has been affected by the closure of many State jobs in recent years. The Government adopted new guidelines for the location of state jobs and the production of state services right for Christmas, with the aim of «building and using the competence of the State throughout the country». The Minister of Justice is responsible for one subject area of many, but it is important that this Council of State also takes responsibility for the whole of state employment. In these days, as mentioned, there is both a reorganization of criminal services and a police reform in the process of falling into place, and many are uncertain as to what it will mean for jobs out in the districts and for citizens access to police assistance and assistance. What does the Council of State think about state district work places in the criminal justice system and in the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e962	It is a major question that can be answered most easily by saying that the guidelines for the location of state jobs also apply to the departments under the Ministry of Justice and Defence, and will be part of the assessment to be taken in this respect. And then I probably cannot – as the representative did not expect – give any guarantees as to where these state jobs are to be located, either inside or outside Valdres.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e969	I am very pleased with the answer with regard to the Mulder Island prison and with the realization of fast settlements and the quality of existing prisons. Some of the things the prison in Valdres is good at are precisely this with rehabilitation and preparation for life after atonement. In these days, many people contact to tell about their development plans and what they can offer that is unique in terms of prison sites. Do I understand the Council of State right when he says that he will place great emphasis on rehabilitation and low relapse rates when he considers the expansion of prisons?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e976	It is one of the elements that will be important in an overall assessment. What is our main challenge today is that we basically have a high level of capacity shortage in closed prisons with a higher level of security. We currently have a covering in prisons of about 98 pst, which is extremely high. This means that we have great challenges in securing custody capacity etc. But so is it that when you build up the capacity, which we now have, over time in enclosed spaces, it will also trigger a need to have good outlets. There are different types of offers that can be used to ensure it in a good way. What I know about Mulder Island prison is that it has a program that appears to be successful. And of course, that kind of thing is something that we're taking into the processes that are now going to go forward, and that I'm assuming that the Storting will also take into its process when they're dealing with the criminal welfare message.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e991	The question to the Minister for Oil and Energy is: «In the course of the 23rd concession round, 40 companies have applied for participation. Of these, only 11 paid taxes to Norway in 2013. That means that 29 of the companies will get almost 80 percent of their costs directly paid by drilling dry wells or not drifting. The last 11 would be able to deduct these costs from the tax. Bellona claims that with an exploration cost of 800 million. kr per well and an estimate of 5 light wells per block risk a direct loss of 150 billion. kr – 200 br. kr. Is this right?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e1000	I am pleased that the Green Party and large parts of the environmental movement are concerned with the profitability of the oil and gas industry, and that this is the point of attack that has recently been put on the table. It is a sign that it has gradually been realised that the oil and gas activity on Norwegian soil has a strict framework for health, environment and safety, which ensures the external environment in a good way, after more than 40 years of operation on Norwegian soil. I would like to remind you that the revenues in 2014 for the treasury net amounted to nearly 300 billion. kr. There are between 200,000 and 300,000 people working in the industry. These are numbers that, at my discretion, drown all too often. This is a cash flow that has given us $6,500 billion. kr on book – in book. History has taught us two things: the industry is cyclic, and you get strengthened out of demanding periods. There is no doubt that the oil price will rise in the long term from today’s level to a level that provides a basis for profitable activity on Norwegian soil for many, many decades to come — also in our northernmost part of the country. The calculation drawn by the representative Hansson from Bellona, according to his own statement, assumes that five wells will be drilled in each block in the 23rd concession round. Yeah, well, I don't have much faith in that. It corresponds to the total number of exploration wells in the entire Norwegian Sea or nearly three times more than the number of exploration wells in the Barents Sea up to now, after more than 30 years. 35 years of activity and exploration in the Norwegian Sea and about 30 years in the Barents Sea: this activity has given us great values for the whole country and employment along the coast. I can assure the representative Hansson that if there is no profitable finding in this area that is covered by the 23rd concession round, there will not, in any case, be drilled five wells in each block. Of course, it won't be profitable for anyone. On the other hand, if we are so lucky that we end up with the number of exploration wells that Hansson's representative uses for his calculation, it will also mean that enormous values will be created off the coast of North Norway. This activity has given Norway huge revenues, thousands of jobs and contributed to enormous growth and enormous resilience to recessions in the world around us. New attractive exploration areas are essential for this industry to continue to be an important pillar for Norwegian industry and value creation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e1017	As the Council of State understood, the main score was not exactly the figures in the calculation, but the question of the risk of further oil activity in the north in the current situation of Norway and climate change. And this is taxpayers' money, to use Advance Party terminology. At the same time as the government announced a 23rd concession round, a major study was published in Nature magazine, which concluded that the extraction of oil and gas north of the Arctic Circle is not compatible with the two-degree target. Although it does not concern the Council of State, there are increasing concerns for other investors – at least it is safe. The Johan Castberg project is currently facing major challenges, and the UN climate manager, Christiana Figueres, has just stated that the concepts «stranded assets» and «carbon bubble» are no longer theory – that is what you see in practice. So the question to the Council of State that is responsible for Norwegian petroleum policy is: does this issue start with the Stranded Assets to worry about the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e1024	As an ethnic northerner, who is born in the part of the country that these scientists who have published that article in Nature, I would like to point out that they are comparing arctic strokes in all parts of the world. In North Norway, half a million people were born and raised. The Norwegian Arctic, that is, North Norway, is something quite different than any other Arctic region in the world. The Gulf Stream makes the climatic conditions in North Norway completely different from those in other Arctic regions of the world. I know that the representative Hansson is very well aware of that. These climatic conditions also make it quite different to operate the development of oil and gas resources outside North Norway than in other parts of the world at the same latitude. I have full confidence that we will find profitable ways of producing also the resources off the coast of North Norway, which we have done off the coast of South West.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e1031	I think Councillor Lien is a bit out and cycling when he thinks that the climate impact of Norwegian oil activities in the north can be explained out by the Gulf Stream. The point is that we have a tax system that shifts very much of the cost of oil exploration to the state, in the expectation that you will get that money back when you make drifting findings. There has been a sensible system as long as there have been little climate issues related to oil and gas activities. In the opinion of the Council of State, this is a sensible way of allocating risks between companies and the state, in a future where the risks of oil activities in the north will necessarily increase, or where the Council of State is willing to discuss, for example: changes in the tax system, so that the Community takes a smaller part in the risk of any oil future? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e1038	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e1041	The short answer to that question could have been an unconditional yes. But let me still say why I think the answer should be yes. What the representative Hansson refers to is the search for fusion. It must be seen in the context of the fact that we have put together a strict petroleum tax system on the Norwegian base. Few elsewhere, some industry pays back as much of its value creation to the countries in which they operate, as the players on the Norwegian base do. I'm glad. That's why we get so much income into the state fund, as, among other things. can finance the offensive climate action that I know Rasmus Hansson is concerned about. I want to say that while we have a strict tax regime, we have to create systems that still make it attractive to invest on Norwegian base. The Light Refusion Facility is such a scheme, and it has contributed to a great diversity and increased value creation on Norwegian soil in the time that lies behind us, and that will also be the case in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e1048	Then there's case no. 2, the ordinary Questionnaire, processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-04.ana.ud2415e1061	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? It doesn't look like that. - The meeting's been cancelled.
