ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e43	The representatives Gunnar Gunnarsen and Audun Lysbakken, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For East Agder County: Lene Langemyr For Akershus County: Thore Vestby, Kjartan Berland and Anette C. Elseth For Buskerud County: Tone Heimdal Brataas and Gerd Eli Berge For the county of Hordaland: Eigil Knutsen For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Arnulf Goksøir and Britt Giske Andersen For the Rogaland County: Marie Liones Breek For the South-Trundellag County: Torhild Aarbergsbotten For Vestfold County: Ellen Eriksen For Eastfold County: Knut Espeland For the Central Party Group, notice is given that the licence granted to the representative Jenny Klinge for the period from 27 January to 29 January has been withdrawn. This notification shall be taken into account. From the Right-wing Group, an application is submitted for the extension of the authorised representative’s leave to Sylvi Graham until 30 January. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The product representative Thore Vestby will continue to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e125	From the so-called Deputy Representative of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Gunnar Viken, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in the Stortinget under the leave of the representative Elin Rodum Agdestein from 27 January to 29 January due to disease. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Erik Føan, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e146	Erik Fløan is present and will take the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the representative of Mr Ingerd Schou and Mr Snorre Serigstad Valen on leave from 27 January to 29 January – both to take part in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg from the Workers' Party Group on the leave of the representative Mr Sverre Myrli from 27 January to 29 January to take part in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Washington from the Workers' Party Group on sickness leave of the representative Eva Kristin Hansen from 27 January until further notice from the Group of the Progressive Party on sickness leave of the representative Tor André Johnsen from 27 January until further notice from the representative Mr Ketil Kjeseth on welfare leave from 27 January until further notice from the Group of the Grand Committee of the Progress Party on Welfare leave of the representative Mr Kristian Norheim from 28 January to 19 February On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Are HealthFor Hedmark County: Hege JensenFor Uppland County: Ingjerd Thon HagasethFor Telemark County: Gry-Anette Rekanes AmundsenFor Sør-Trøndelag County: Audun Otterstad and Aud Herbjørg KvalvikFor Østfold County: Tone Damsleth
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e228	Are Health, Hege Jensen, Ingjerd Thon Hagaseth, Audun Otterstad, Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik and Tone Damsleth are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e251	Norway is a well-functioning democracy. Comparing one with most other countries in the world, there is little reason to complain about the Norwegian People's Republic. When we representatives from the Storting go out into the world as election observers, we see a lot that's not on duty, and we're good at telling others how they can improve their choices. At the same time, I think it's healthy that we also take a look at the mirror at regular intervals and ask ourselves whether there are also aspects of our democracy and our electoral arrangements that can be made even better. Such debates should take place in this Chamber, so I am pleased that the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation is here today to discuss the issue. In addition to being responsible for the liquidation of elections in Norway, the Council of State is responsible for the local and regional reform which a majority in Stortinget has decided to implement. That's why I want to take her as my starting point when I'm about to start this debate. One of the stated objectives of the municipal reform – yes, perhaps the most important objective of the reform – is to strengthen local democracy. This is done by adding new tasks and greater powers to local and regional councils in the country. But in my view, we should also take a critical look at how the voters can influence the composition of these local assemblies, which the Stortinget wants to become even more important. Because if the Storting agrees with the Left in that there are aspects of the electoral system that should be improved, it is natural, in my opinion, that one from the government, in parallel with the local and regional reform, starts work on a review and adaptation of the electoral system. I want to point out a couple of things in our choice system that it's worth looking at with a critical look. Some of them only apply to local selections, which are related to landfill options, and something applies to both. First of all, the selection system. In Norway it is the lot that suggests lists to the selection. Unfortunately, we know that the number of members of the political parties has gone down steadily for many years, and the number of party members involved in nomination processes is even lower. It is therefore important that the voters have the greatest possible chance of affecting the membership of our elected assemblies, not just the membership of the parties. In local government elections, the voters have a very good opportunity to influence the lists, and we know that they benefit greatly from this possibility. Forty p.m. by the choosers, votes in votes in municipal elections. Until 2002, it was also possible to remove candidates from the electoral lists. It unfortunately doesn't have the ability anymore. But I know that the Council of State has once been involved in this issue. It might therefore be interesting to right if he still wants to reintroduce the option of deleting list candidates, and if this is something the government will work for. According to a 2009 report from the Institute for Social Research, a majority of the population as well as the list candidates themselves want to be able to delete the lists. Amongst the opponents, there are a very experienced list candidates and candidates from the Working Party. One advantage of the ability to delete and correct is that it is relatively easy to understand the selections in an otherwise rather complicated selection system. Following the 1999 municipal elections — the last election with the option of cancelling — a total of 12 pst. none of the candidates were selected if there were no deletions in the lists. On the other hand, the gender and age sentence of the local government was not affected by this, showing the previous report. Making it easier to influence lists by local selection will be a good thing. At the same time, there might be an even greater benefit if it was possible to influence the lists in the event of a crash. This is only theoretically possible today, since the whole of 50 pst. You have to make the same changes for the selections to have a consequence. That, as far as I know, has never happened. After the 2009 collapse option, Norway received criticism from the OSCE for just the lack of ability to change the listing statement, and Norway was asked to consider a change in election laws where a lower threshold for a correction to actually affect the list. The Ministry has previously stated that one will return to an assessment of this issue. I hope the Council of State can say something today about what he might be thinking about doing in this area. Because looking at the low participation in nomination processes together with the lack of ability to change the lists, the reality is that less than 2 pst. decide who will become members of the legislative assembly in the country. We can hardly live with that. We can certainly come back to the way in which such an election scheme should be designed in the event of a roll-out. We know that our neighbouring countries have different models where the ability to make changes affects how many people voice. In Sweden it is about 25 pst., in Denmark about 50 pst. Even in Norway, where people's voices really don't have anything to say, they do a whole of 12 pst. changes made by the choosers to the file lists. It shows that the composition of the person in this room is something the voters want to influence, and it should give them a real opportunity. Norway has also received criticism from the OSCE for our election implementation on some other points. Among other things, criticisms have been raised against the implementation of the Internet vote attempt. The left is pleased that the government has said that no further attempts should be made. Technology optimism is good, but the principle of free and secret elections is so important that elections should continue in the future, where electoral officials can make sure that everything goes right. A third point where Norway has received criticism concerns the issue of publicising election contributions. Money has a major impact on choices, including Norwegian choices. We should therefore strive for maximum openness in what resources and interests are behind the different parts and constellations. According to party laws, it is only the political parties themselves that meet the requirements of publicising election contributions, but we know that also elections from third parties, for example. industrial interests and trade unions may play an essential role in an electoral campaign. Lack of publicity of the kind of indirect party support can help undermine the openness of electoral funding. It might be interesting to right if the Council of State agrees with the OSCE that one should consider making demands for the publication of election contributions also from third parties. So I'll say a few words not only about how the selectors can influence by choice, but also about who we should allow to be voters. The left has always taken the lead in expanding democracy, allowing more and more people to vote – women, workers, 20-year-olds, 18-year-olds. Now it's time we let the 16-year-olds go. The electoral channel is the most important channel of political participation, and our 16- and 17-year-olds showed through the pilot scheme at the last local elections that they are more than ready to participate in our democracy. The evaluation carried out by the Institute for Social Research after the 2011 elections showed a number of interesting findings. Elections among 16- and 17-year-olds were around the average of the population, but a total of 12 percentage points above electoral attendance among 18- to 21-year-olds. This fits well with the experiences we have from other countries, where we see that younger voters actually participate in elections higher than ordinary first-time voters – perhaps because of a more stable life situation and tighter ties to the municipality in which they are registered. The evaluation of the pilot project also showed that there were small differences in the political preferences of the 16- and 17-year-olds compared to the electoral masses otherwise, but that the tendency for young candidates to vote on the lists was particularly strong in the experimental municipalities. Given that the age range of local government in our country is quite high, and that the selection mass is getting older and older, it must be said to be a very positive result of the pilot project. The left is pleased that the government has chosen to follow the call for further testing of 16-year-olds' voting rights also in this local election, but it might be interesting to see to the right what the government has intended to do to facilitate a successful trial this time too, and whether he sees any moment in the evaluation of the last pilot project that argues against this becoming a permanent scheme. The country will soon have stronger and larger municipalities and stronger and larger regions. That is the good reason for it, but this is a reform that will also mean that many will get a longer way to their town hall. It requires that we now take a good discussion about how we can strengthen our electoral system, and it requires that one also take a local discussion about how to move democracy closer to people, for example through the use of population polls, community initiatives, the creation of urban selections or local selections, etc. Today's urban selection is possible, but there is a possibility that is not used and that it should definitely be useful to use more now when you're going to get larger municipalities. I hope that the various questions I have raised in this article, both those relating to local elections, and those relating to national elections, can be a play for a good debate, which hopefully can lead to an even stronger democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e289	I would first like to take the opportunity to thank the representative, Mr Rotevatn, for addressing a very important and topical issue, and I am pleased that these issues are being discussed in the Stortinget, which is the right place for this type of debate. The municipalities are the foundation of Norwegian democracy, and the role of local authorities as democratic arenas should become even more important with the reform of the municipalities. The government will strengthen local democracy by shifting power and responsibility to the municipalities. That means that most people get more influence over their own everyday life and their own local environment. Today, local democracy is under pressure. Increased state detail management and growth in inter-municipal cooperation weaken local democracy. Intermunicipal cooperation has been the municipality’s own strategy to become equipped to provide statutory services with sufficient competence and capacity. There will always be a need for inter-municipal cooperation, but it will be wrong when the size is as large as we see today, and when this is because the municipalities are unable to solve tasks on their own. Extensive inter-municipal cooperation poses a democratic and governance problem. The citizens do not know who is to be held responsible when they are going to the polls, when politicians from neighbouring municipalities are equally and perhaps more responsible for what the intercommunal bodies are doing. In addition, increased state detail management has in recent decades reduced the ability of municipalities to adapt services to local conditions in the municipality. It is important that local democracy is put on the agenda of the community reform. We now have a good opportunity to highlight the municipality as a democratic body and the need to think democracy when planning and implementing a municipal merger. The municipality is the arena where citizens are to be given the opportunity to influence decisions relating to them and to choose their local leaders, leaders who will be given a more comprehensive responsibility for local response and development. The Ministry contributes to the community's efforts to develop its own local democracy, including: by disseminating experiences that contribute to the learning and development of democracy in several municipalities. The Regional Development Competence Centre has been given the task of developing a democracy development guide. The supervisor shall contribute to the development of local democracy as a central element of the bundling processes. A comprehensive supervisor is completed and launched during the spring. With this guide, the Department wants to show that there are several ways to realise good local democracy. It is important to make visible different forms of organisation and forms of involvement that can contribute to a more vibrant local democracy. It is also important to provide good examples from home and abroad in municipalities that have actively worked with local democracy. Methods shall also be provided to explain how citizens can contribute to the construction of democracy in a new municipality. I believe that with stronger municipalities, municipalities can also improve their involvement in important decision-making processes. There can be more systematic development of schemes that place the population in the centre. With deliberate efforts, municipalities can become even stronger as a democratic body in the context of the community reform than they are today. The representative Rotevatn also takes up another very important aspect of democracy, namely our electoral system. A central objective of the ministry's work in this area is to maintain confidence in the electoral system and its implementation. To ensure this, constant attention is required to the optimal functioning of the choice system. A central measure to ensure this is that since 2009, international electoral observers have been invited to observe all elections in Norway. I believe external glances at how we implement choices are very useful and important, both to learn and not least to bring up discussions about key issues related to the implementation of choices. The OSCE has observed the policy choice both in 2009 and 2013. The main conclusion of the 2013 report is: ‘The choice had a high level of confidence both among policy participants and the general public. Legislation provides a solid basis for democratic elections. The implementation of the choice was professional and effective, and was highly trusted by interest groups.’ In its reports, the OSCE, as the representative Rotevatn mentions, has also made suggestions for improvements. The recommendations of the OSCE have been closely followed up. These days we send a follow-up report to the OSCE, based on the 2013 election report. A central point here is, for example, that we will now investigate the complaint and approval system for choice. This is a point for which Norway has received international criticism, and we now want to see how this can be improved. Another aspect addressed by the OSCE is the rules on voting rights. In Norway today, as the representative Rotevatn explains, we have different personal choices for local government, county councils and decision-making. In local government elections, voters’ corrections are of great importance today. In county elections, the list is less correct, and the corrections have been largely consistent with the ranking of the parties. This has therefore not led to major changes in the composition of the county. In the case of potting options, the voters have little opportunity to influence who is selected. Together with several Right-wing representatives, I was involved in making proposals in 2010 to introduce the possibility of personal choice by decision-making. In the autumn of 2014, the Ministry presented a study on the consequences of possible changes due to changes in the rules of the general election of persons. In the light of this report, the Ministry of ours will issue a consultation note with proposals for changes to the rules on voting rights, in order to follow-up with a legislative proposal to the Stortinget. I believe that the time is ripe to give voters the opportunity to influence the lists even when they are large-scale, and if the Stortinget agrees, new rules may come into force before the 2017 elections. So this is one thing that we're already working on. In addition to international observers, the Ministry will carry out a thorough evaluation of the elections, which will be carried out at wide consultation, and where any need for legislative changes is discussed. The change of municipal and county boundaries affects both the electoral system and the electoral process. The practical and administrative aspects of electoral work could be affected. Examining the needs and possible adaptation of the electoral system in line with the reform process is something we have a great deal of attention to. The responsibility for both electoral implementation and the work on municipal and regional reform is concentrated in my department. So we have good assumptions to see this in context. Ensuring representation from all over the country to Stortinget is an important principle of the Norwegian electoral system. The distribution of mandates between the electoral districts is influenced both by the number of inhabitants and the size of the electoral district. It is a dynamic distribution that is recalculated every eight years to take account of changes in population. The background is a desire to ensure both political and geographical representation. International standards provide for such arrangements within reasonable limits. In 2009, the OSCE asked questions as to whether the distribution we use in Norway deviates too much. The Ministry’s assessment at that time was that the distribution was in line with international standards. The distribution of mandates between the electoral districts is governed by the Constitution. The purpose of having these provisions of the Constitution is to ensure a stable and predictable electoral system. The change in the number of counties could have consequences for the electoral districts by decision-making. This is a big and fundamental question, and we have to make sure that we have an electoral system that has confidence among the voters. I think long-term thinking about these questions is important. I would therefore like, once the Stortinget has taken a position on the reform, to provide an in-depth analysis of all aspects of this issue as part of the work on regional reform. The representative Rotevatn also took up other aspects of the selection system. The government does not intend to reintroduce ironing in municipal elections. However, I believe that this is an important discussion that belongs in Stortinget, and we will of course be responsive to the views expressed in Stortinget, but we do not have plans to implement this at this stage. It is also my opinion that in these kinds of issues it is important that there is broad agreement and consensus among several parties on major changes in the electoral system. This is also the background for moving forward with plans for the implementation of personal choices in decision-making. These were issues that were widely discussed at Stortinget in the previous magnification period. It's also true that we're continuing the trial with the voting rights of 16- and 17-year-olds. Here the government parties initially have a different position than the Left, but with the background of the Left's initiative and the Left's desire to continue the experiment, the government has complied with it, and it is carried out in 20 municipalities at the first municipal elections. There we have decided to continue in ten of the old municipalities plus adding ten new ones. It will give us a good basis for getting good experience with this experiment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e339	Thanks to the Council of State for a good deal and for a good answer to many of my questions. It is very gratifying to right that the work of introducing the election to the Storting is in progress. I'm glad to see the results. In this way, it might be interesting to think to the right if the Council of State has any idea of whether there should be some kind of limit to this, similar to what one has in county elections, or whether one sees a model more similar to that one we have in municipal elections. At the same time, it is a pity that the government does not want to reintroduce the possibility of extermination. There's something we know very many voters benefit from, and that got consequences when it was possible. I still interpret the post to the Council so that there's a certain opening so that we can discuss this in the future, and at least from the Left's side we want to signal that there's something that should definitely be done. So I'm probably sharing my views on this being with intermunicipal cooperation. From my point of view, I have to say that getting bigger municipalities should and will result in fewer of them, and that one gets more popular control over important tasks that are being solved today through inter-municipal cooperation, from waste management to child protection. Then there is a big question, as the Council of State says, whether the regional reform will have consequences for our electoral districts in decision-making. I agree that this is a question that Storting itself has to decide on. It's a constitutional question, and it's going to have to be the subject of a big deal, but at the same time, I think it's important that we in this room are aware that when a person now enters a process of regional reform, it'll be natural for one to think in those paths. At the same time, I would like to have answers to some of the questions that the Council of State did not have. The only thing is this with the right to vote for 16-year-olds. As I said, I am pleased that the government is continuing the project – it is very good – but I am excited that there was something about the previous attempt that the government and the Council of State thought was negative, which contradicted the fact that we should extend our democracy even downwards. It would be great if the local and regional reform we are going to implement could also have been a major reform to include many more in our democracy. And then I also have a question that's a little bit more, I kept saying, open for discussion. Use of local selections and urban selections, which is a possibility today, but which are not used. Large municipalities like Bergen, for example has had it, but has gone away from it; while in Oslo one feels that it works well. I mean, as I said in my main post, getting bigger municipalities means that this too can be a more topical possibility, so I wonder if the council has any thoughts about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e354	Again: I think it is very important that we have an open discussion about these issues in society in general, but in the Storting in particular. I think it is very important that we have this debate. It creates trust, and it also creates anchoring. That trust in our electoral system is absolutely fundamental, and that is why I am concerned that in these kinds of questions it is also important that there is broad support. That's why the government doesn't now have any plans to take up the debate on ironing, but I'm listening to the debate that might have to come up in this area in Stortinget, and to the social debate. As regards the issue of 16-year-olds’ voting rights, the Government Parties’ position is that the age of voting rights should follow the age of authority. It's a fundamental point of view. In addition, the report that came after the previous experiment also had shades where it was drawn out both positive and not entirely positive sides. But in the light of the Left's initiative, I have said that we continue the experiment, and the fact that we continue the experiment also in some of the municipalities that had it last gives us a good basis. So to the question of choice of individuals in decision-making. We have not now decided which model to choose, but we have looked at the models that have been tested in Sweden and also in several of our other neighbouring countries. It is important that we listen to those countries that may be closest to both electoral system and democratic tradition. We will send a proposal for consultation during the spring – that is at least what we are aiming for – and then we look forward to a further good discussion on this issue in Stortinget. With regard to the last question that the representative Rotevatn raises, namely the question of local authority, I believe that this is an interesting model. Bodø and Skjerstad, who have now joined forces, have maintained a local authority. It's seven miles from Skjerstad to Bodø center. The fact that they have a local authority committee contributes to ensuring their proximity and that directly elected politicians in Skjerstad also have a real influence in terms of, among other things, regulatory matters. So there's a model that's been tested there, and that works well, and just through the work that district centers are doing now, we want to systematically gather information about what's done in different places, and contribute to the dissemination of this information. But I agree that with larger municipalities it can be a model that helps to strengthen our local democracy. It is an important goal for the government and also among the parties in Stortinget that we use the municipal reform to vitalise our local democracy, which has a good deal of challenges today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e365	Let me start by thanking the interpellant for raising the debate on democracy in connection with the municipal reform to the Stortinget as well. It is obvious that as big structural changes as the government's municipal reform brings about could have democratic consequences. At some point, the government's municipal reform was also often referred to as a major democratic reform, but so far it is difficult to find traces of the change and strengthening of democracy in what the government has presented. It's been a lot about structure. The question is whether you have left that trail or whether you are still busy using the opportunity to make significant structural changes to strengthen local democracy. At least time has come to be nuanced, to lift up and discuss different solutions and opportunities and to look at the consequences of the changes made. Let me give you one example, which is about the discussion that has arisen now, after the government's expert committee took up a discussion on how to organize the counties: in principle, today, everyone voting in municipal and county elections has an influence on the same tasks. If you want to follow such a scheme as the expert committee has presented and select one of the models where you have, for example: The fact that some municipalities have a different task portfolio than others will have consequences for the weight of your voice at different levels. It's not a democratic problem in isolation, but at least it could be less transparent, and it could also be a problem in some places when you're going to get some restraints that are very limited, while other residents could influence much larger tasks that have been added to states or municipalities. It is also the case that if you want to achieve the goal that many people have drawn up – you have suggested about. 100 municipalities – that means that we not only get fewer municipalities, but we will also have fewer elected people. Norwegian democracy is today strong because we have about. 11,000 elected representatives. The question is how many local people we'll be left with. It's not sure that there's a one-to-one relationship between the number of elected and democracy, but my starting point is at least that the elected ones we have, who sacrifice a lot of their free time, who are engaged in their community and want to create a better society, do a very important job. Several academics who have commented on the reform are also concerned about what happens if a large number of rapporteurs disappear – rapporteurs who can represent a different voice from the national central authority in understanding and drawing a picture of what the nation really looks like. If 300 of the 400 rapporteurs disappear, does it have a democratic significance? And what are the consequences in the long term? Let me just stress that the Workers' Party is very concerned that we are taking a discussion about how municipalities will meet their future challenges. We believe it is important that local elected representatives sit down and discuss how individual municipalities should meet the challenges. It's a disagreement about whether or not to listen to the answers you get, but at least we agree with the government that it's important to sit around and take what the Council of State refers to as the neighboring talk. But being able to determine the form of governance and how to govern one's own community is also part of democracy. That means that we also have to listen to the advice we get from the local populace. Recent research shows that those societies with confidence and equality are the societies where people are also most satisfied. In addition, these are the most important explanations on which economies succeed. Having confidence is also about having closeness, and it is about the legitimacy of the decisions taken by local and regional politicians, and we must not give that on the boat through a large-scale change in municipal structure. The Council of State was in its intervention on the question of inter-municipal cooperation, and let me stress that my view is that inter-municipal cooperation itself is not a democratic problem, but there are challenges in many places related to how one chooses to organise and practice inter-municipal cooperation. There should have been more attention than just blaming that this is a democratic problem. Of course, the debate on this should take place in Stortinget, and it is important that the Stortinget participates in this debate, and the government's municipal reform should also receive greater attention in the public debate. But it is a responsibility that is also heavy on the shoulders of the Council of State. You can't just postpone this issue after the reform is ready, and then discuss democracy. [[President clubs]] The presidential laws of 1837 had two purposes: one was to solve national tasks. [[The President Clubs Again]] The second was to secure local democracy. This must also be the case with the reform of the local authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e386	The President requests that the speaking time be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e389	It is an interesting interpellation that is raised: about the challenge of democracy and the question of future municipal structure. There is no doubt that the major pooling projects that we are now in the middle of the debate are raising some challenges, and it is important and right to get them clarified. Like the representative Sivertsen, I would like to point out that a merger process itself will reduce the number of local elected representatives. Local populace are, in most cases, engaged people — who are engaged in local democracy, engaged in a dialogue with their inhabitants, and committed to contributing to decisions that are best for the community. If one takes into account the NHO’s proposal on municipal structure – approx. 100 municipalities – it will reduce the number of people elected from around the world. 11,000 to less than 4000. In itself, it means that fewer people participate in local democracy and contribute to local decisions. I also think it belongs in an interpellation debate like this. I also think it is important what Mr Sivertsen said, that the rapporteurs themselves represent in many respects an alternative voice, an alternative voice, both to the state and the state as such, and to the considerations of the centralised power apparatus. These voices get fewer when you choose to join municipalities. The government says it has the goal of providing local democracy with a strengthened local democracy. So far in the process, the measures launched by the government and by the expert group have been little influenced by this type of action to promote local democracy, while the reform itself – as I just pointed out – has some elements in it that will weaken local democracy. I would like to point out that in order to strengthen local democracy, rules of play such as volunteering and community participation are important in terms of both change in the municipal division and the development of local society in the future. When the interpellant here is talking about using referendums to a greater extent than what you're doing today, the Center Party fully agrees with that. We believe that the first and best way to use it is to conduct local referendums on whether to merge municipalities or not, so that the local population actually gets to participate and decide what kind of arena local democracy will be created from in the future. I also want to point out that intercommunal cooperation is used as an argument for local democracy. Getting larger municipalities will not eliminate intercommunal cooperation – in no way. Intermunicipal cooperation is as much, if not more pronounced in the largest municipalities than it is in the smallest municipalities. The elimination of intermunicipal cooperation will not take place, nor will it take place if a changed municipality border and a changed municipal division are created. I would also like to mention that the question of local selection or urban selection has been tested in connection with the municipal reform in Denmark. Unfortunately, it has not worked. It's kind of been reduced to marginal arenas, where people sit and talk without feeling that they have any real influence. Then it's not that much fun, and you've at the same time centralized the really important decisions in the community into larger units. The issue of regionalisation is also important for local democracy and for the electoral system. Here, contrary to its own wishes, the government must come back to the United Kingdom with a proposal which implies that one should continue to have three levels of government in Norway. The size would like to discuss what such a regional level would look like. Today's county councils are more than just our elected regional level – it is also the electoral district of the Grand elections, and that is the framework for the majority of the state's regional administration. Rotevatn therefore raises a very timely question when he asks how changed county classification will affect the organisation of electoral districts in decision-making. This has not been a mandate in the preliminary investigations – we know very little about that debate. There is an important debate, which it is important to hold, regardless of how one believes that the future regional borders should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e408	One of the first test pieces we now have on whether we really want to strengthen local democracy is if we allow the municipalities to get the last word when it comes to community reunification. It is at least not credible if you start such a reform by saying that there must be an element of coercion in this. It can't be. There is a need to strengthen democracy both locally and centrally. Then it is not primarily about what the Council of State dealt with, for example. Designation and government governance, it probably has more to do with the fact that the central level gives the municipalities enough economic business – that is, they get a large enough share of the total economy, and that central authorities are fully financing the tasks entrusted to the local government by the central authorities. Then there will be room for action again to democracy. Then the Councils are concerned with problems of inter-municipal cooperation. Yes, I still hear this, but in many places it works well. However, what is never problematised is the unanswered desire for outsourcing, outsourcing and privatisation, such as: The government wishes. When the government says that the municipalities will grow to such an extent that they can make the task seam, they do not, however, believe that they should do the task seam. And when you're elected at local level, it's pretty hard to manage the important tasks you have when it comes to business contracts between suppliers and the municipality. Then there is not much room left for politics. If we are engaged in local democracy because it is to have important welfare tasks, we must be concerned that the municipal administration is doing the task of seagoing, also in practice, so that it becomes part of the administration that local politicians can govern. Then I agree with what was said by the Labour Party and the Central Party in terms of the number of politicians, the strength of having many rapporteurs, etc. And about referendums: Yes, it's nice to use referendums. I record that the government warns against using referendums in the context of municipal mergers, but would like to have user studies instead. The government will not even lower the foothold of the municipalities that exclude parts of the population from participating in such surveys, for example: People over 80 years old. It has happened in municipalities. I have asked the Minister if he will stop this age discrimination, and he answers no. You can also get a call and get a number of questions that you have to deal with, and then there's someone who's going to sort them out afterwards. So there's a lot more orderly with direct votes. When it comes to personal choice, I think it's exciting to see new proposals coming, because it can be positive. I have to say that personally I have been against the possibility of deleting the lists. I believe that it was right, sail if it was search when you were struck. So finally in 16-year-olds. I believe that there should be very good reasons for restrictions on voting rights. There shall be explicit reasons for excluding some people from voting rights. We've now done these tests, and that's good. They show that the turnout rate is increasing among several, e.g. among young people responsible for criminal matters. They can be judged by law, and I believe that they should be able to participate in these laws as well. They are very affected by what is happening, both in municipalities and county municipalities, where there are no attempts at voting rights for 16-year-olds. When these attempts were evaluated, there were some who said that there was no such thing as increasing interest in politics in general in this age group. I have never heard of such surveys for 70-year-olds, for 35-year-olds or, for that matter, for 65-year-olds. They are allowed to vote in favour of studies that do not show that they are becoming more interested in politics and democracy. So I think it's completely irrelevant. The point is, do we have good enough arguments to exclude this part of the population from a fundamental human right that the right to vote is? I don't think we have good reasons for that. I'm also very disappointed that the expanded trial that is now going on did not also take Oslo with me. It would have been a very interesting attempt, but the government said no.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e427	I hear representatives from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party so doubt the intercommunal companies and their boards. I have good and long experience from municipalities and know best municipalities in the range of 15 000-20 000 plus a variety of intercommunal companies, and there is no doubt that when a service is extended to intercommunal companies, it leaves the local government hall and goes on to live its own life. I have repeatedly agreed to try to get the control you have on the line, into the local government. We didn't do that. It is very difficult for the usual local government representative to accompany that company. There is no doubt that a reduction in inter-communal companies — and put it in line — will strengthen their democratic governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e434	The starting point for the interpellation is that I believe that local and regional reform can also be an important democratic reform if we discuss some of the major issues involved. But I would like to stress that I think that the reform itself is also a democratic reform, precisely because now one is getting more control over the inter-communal companies. I found it a pity that the representatives of the Workers' Party and the Centre were not willing to see that point. It is right, as Arnstad's representative says, that intermunicipal cooperation is at least as common in large municipalities as well, but it has just been with, among other things. distances to do. It is not that the municipal reform is only applicable in small districts; it is at least as topical in some of our most densely populated areas in order to make the real urban and labour market area today lie with the democratic level of that area. I would also say that what the Labour Party thinks about this municipal reform is still one of life's big questions after the debate today. But it's clear that you need to make sure that this works, you also have to bring down more tasks. Larger municipalities will be able to take on larger tasks; larger regions will be able to take on larger tasks. And when it is shown that experiences with municipal selections, urban selections, are a little variable both in Norway and in Denmark, as it was shown, I think it also has the will to delegate down power to do, that one must be willing to give these selections real tasks if it is to make any sense to engage there. So I'm going to say that it's very happy what the council confirms today, that there are changes when it comes to the election of the Stortinge, among other things. It's very positive. We are happy to continue working on it, and we also hope that the opportunity to cancel candidates will be on the agenda soon. It's great to get a positive signal from Andersen's representative in this way today. Finally, with the age of voting rights: it is not such that the age of voting must necessarily be associated with the age of authority. Nor has it always done so in Norwegian history. Nor is it the case that we exclude unauthorised persons from the voting rights of Norway. The vote is a concrete assessment that one must take from – where I agree with the representative Andersen – that the burden of proof must be on those who refuse to participate in democracy. You should have a very good reason to do that. And when we look at 16- and 17-year-olds, what do they have in common? Well, they can be judged by criminal law, they can form families, they have done what we have of compulsory schooling and education in our country, they can move in traffic – and they should also be able to participate in democracy. Finally, I will be allowed to thank those who have shared, for a good debate. I definitely hope it doesn't come with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e450	Let me also conclude that these are interesting issues that deserve wide debate. Some of the issues that have arisen are relatively well-known. Our concern has been that Norway has experienced strong centralisation in recent decades. This is partly through an increasing central government of the municipalities and is linked to an increase in inter-municipal cooperation. Intermunicipal cooperation has come to be, and in many areas it may make sense. However, when municipalities depend entirely on inter-municipal cooperation to solve completely fundamental welfare tasks, it is a clear sign that municipalities are too small. This is the reality – that many municipalities are too small for many of the tasks they have today, and that an increasing number therefore need to have inter-municipal cooperation, which significantly weakens the real influence and power of the local government hall. I must also remind the representative Marit Arnstad of the report presented by the Nord-Trøndelag High School a year ago. In Trønderavias it was described as local democracy in crisis. I don't want to use that kind of word about today's situation, but I think we have significant challenges today that we need to discuss. Therefore, the municipal reform is an invitation, both to the Stortinget and to the municipalities, to discuss how we can strengthen local democracy. I believe that through larger municipalities we are contributing to this, and we will around Easter make suggestions to transfer more tasks, more responsibility and greater influence to larger municipalities. It will strengthen local democracy in our country. If local democracy were to be measured in the number of town halls, it would be France that would be the target of local democracy in Norway. They have 37,000 municipalities. But there, local democracy has very limited power, to put it a little to the fore – they want to welcome the high lords of Paris and organize a summer party. In our municipalities, child protection is the responsibility of schools, of drugs, of mental health, of care for the elderly, and so we want it to be. It is a Norwegian and Nordic tradition that is important for us to continue. This has been a discussion that has gone on many levels. It is important to us that we contribute to strengthening local democracy through the local reform, and I am pleased with the many positive recordings and discussions that the representative Rotevatn has made, among other things. on how we can contribute to increased personal choice in decision making. It could also increase both the interest and the influence of voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e463	Then there's case no. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e479	51 million people are fleeing: it's a historically high number, and it's primarily the civil war in Syria that has contributed to the frightening increase, a war that many people call the worst humanitarian disaster since World War II. The estimate is that approx. half of the country's population is displaced. So quickly the refugee crisis around Syria escalates that the High Commissioner for Refugees expects the country to have the worst refugee crisis in the world this year, after Afghanistan has had the dubious honor for over 30 years. In Africa too, there are many new and old refugee crises, for example. in the Central African Republic and South Sudan. From the past, hundreds of thousands of people are fleeing from crises and wars – in Congo, Somalia, Western Sahara, Sudan, Eritrea and Mali. The situation in Ukraine is also evolving and contributes to the deterioration of the figures following the presentation of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees’ report. Of the 51 million refugees in the world, the High Commissioner for Refugees says that 16.7 million are refugees in other countries, 1.1 million are asylum seekers, and 33 million are internally displaced. 5 million of the refugees are Palestinians. There is nothing to suggest a quick solution to the refugee situation in the Mediterranean. The flow of people who travel across the sea to come to Europe continues. The Commission is trying to rethink, but it is difficult to make the EU Member States and the Schengen-associated countries move from word to action. There are considerable tensions within Europe, and Norway has become an integral part of this major challenge, both politically and operationally. The unstable political situation in several countries in North Africa and the Middle East has led in 2014 to over 200,000 people coming to Europe across the Mediterranean, often in overcrowded, poor boats and after paying a high price to well-organised traffickers. Many people have drowned or lost their lives on the road. It is an unimaginable tragedy that is occurring at the outer borders of Europe. In October 2013, the Italian authorities launched an initiative, called Mare Nostrum, to save lives at sea. On 31 October 2014, it was announced that the Italian operation would be phased out and replaced by an EU operation called Triton, under the auspices of Frontex Border Control Agency. The large influx of asylum seekers into Europe has challenged the reception apparatus, the Dublin/Eurodac system and the asylum process in other EU Member States and in the Schengen-associated countries. The major conflicts in the world over the last year have come substantially closer to our own living room door, and Europe must deal with a new movement of people that we have not seen before. ‘Peace is a shortcoming. Humanitarian aid may act as a relief. But what is absolutely necessary is political solutions. Without it, the alarming levels of conflict and mass disorders reflected in these figures will continue.’ This said the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. I agree. I believe that the time has come to find policy solutions – not fewer – and that this debate today needs to be about what policy solutions Norway can help to find. The UN migrant organisation produced a report that for the first time estimated the number of shipwrecked refugees on the European maritime route. A total of 22,000 people have died, and 3,000 just last year. The Mediterranean is the most dangerous place in the world to reach another country for a human being on the run. It stands for 75 pst. of the number of migrants killed in 2014, as estimated — despite the fact that Italy, after Lampedusa, as I mentioned earlier, launched the humanitarian maritime operation Mare Nostrum. The operation cost Italian authorities EUR 9 million a month, but saved the lives of 175 000 people, according to the French newspaper Le Novel Observer. On 1 November, the Italian authorities began the closure of Mare Nostrum, and the reason was that it was too expensive for Italy to operate the operation alone. The EU control and monitoring body Frontex has taken over with an action called Triton. The main objective of Frontex’s action is to prevent illegal immigration into the Schengen area. So it is not primarily a humanitarian effort, but a border control mechanism. However, during the first month, Frontex vessels have been involved in a number of rescue operations. In June 2014, the government adopted its strategy for cooperation with the EU in 2014 – 2017, highlighting areas such as increased security and security and a comprehensive migration policy as key priorities. The government has expressed support for Frontex on several occasions, but it remains unclear what this support is more concretely made up of. We did not contribute in any way to Operation Triton in 2014. I hope that the Minister of Justice and Defence, through this interpellation, can clarify what this support should be. One of 20 vessels in the international waters of the Mediterranean near the coast of Libya is Norwegian, and last year only Norwegian ships took over 2 500 refugees. Last summer, on average, two rescue operations have been carried out on a weekly basis by seafarers on Norwegian-owned ships off the Libyan coast. Norway’s Shipowners’ Association fears that if Italy does not have more capacity and European countries do not move, it is now becoming a seafarer who will have to take up the noise in international waters. According to the Shipowners' Association, the situation is unsustainable. They say that Italy and the seafarers cannot deal with this humanitarian situation alone. ‘We see a humanitarian crisis at sea outside Libya and east of Egypt, where Norwegian and other seafarers are. The Italians have done a brilliant job so far – so good that the human traffickers specifically tempt the boat refugees to travel to Italy. Here there are many dilemmas, but our focus is the situation at sea. The human smugglers must be taken, but the boat refugees must be helped. Now the EU and Norway must also contribute to rescue operations in these waters. We are concerned that there is no end to a situation where there are no European rescue authorities in the waters where the boat refugees are,» says the Shipowners' Association. Together with the Refugee Aid, they presented five proposals for action to the Government in a letter dated 24 September 2014. The first is that Norway remains actively involved in peace-building, conflict prevention and management, thus contributing to the prevention of refugee flows. The second is that Norway needs to help refugees get closer to their country of origin, so that fewer are driven across the Mediterranean. The third requirement was for the Norwegian authorities to work actively against the cynical activities of human traffickers in the Mediterranean and in other sea areas. Fourth, Norway must actively contribute to rescue operations in the Mediterranean. The resources of the Italian and Greek fleets are very tight and more refugees in the Mediterranean need to be rescued. Here, according to the Refugee Aid and Shipowners Association, Norwegian authorities must engage in dialogue with both authorities and regions, and with Norwegian shipping, in order to produce concrete Norwegian contributions to the rescue work. The fifth is that Norwegian authorities should actively assist shipping with advice and resources to ensure that Norwegian controlled ships and crews are as equipped as possible to deal with humanitarian, health, safety, legal and practical aspects of the rescue operations, for the needs of the refugees and for the proper care of the crew on board. The question is then: Who does the government think is responsible for the boat refugees in the Mediterranean if Italy fails to do this on its own? And will the government respond positively to the proposals of the Refugee Aid and Shipowners Association, or does the government have other measures to take? The large influx of asylum seekers across the Mediterranean in 2014 has resulted in a very high number of people who have been put ashore in Italy. According to the Dublin Code, asylum seekers are to be registered in the fingerprint register in Italy, which is then also responsible for the processing of asylum applications. Many asylum seekers have traveled northwards in Europe without being registered in Italy. Burden distribution and solidarity are values of great importance in the EU/Schengen cooperation, but in this context there has been a clear disagreement in the interpretation of the concepts. The countries of the south, which undoubtedly accept most asylum seekers, believe that the Dublin acquis imposes disproportionate burdens on them, and solidarity means the sharing of asylum seekers. At the same time, the countries of the north show that it is in reality those who treat about 50 % of the population. 70 pst. by asylum-seekers, as many choose to move on without being registered. Humanitarian organisations have repeatedly warned that the capacity of host communities has been extended to the extreme – in the case of countries such as Greece, Italy and Spain – and argues for a better international burden-sharing. In several European capitals, the theme of internal security and Schengen has become an increasingly prominent political issue and is high on the agenda, as we also see in the various political landscapes of many countries, and many call for more national control and less committed cooperation. At a time when Europe needs to step up its efforts to address major challenges, more and more calls for mitigation opportunities. Is the response in more confidence and cooperation between countries, or does the government believe that the answer is to follow the United Kingdom, which has announced that they will be in three parts of EU criminal and law enforcement cooperation, the new Schengen evaluation mechanism? The new Commissioner for Migration and Home Affairs, Avramopoulos, has, during his consultation in the European Parliament in the autumn of 2014, called for certain aspects of the Dublin Regulation to be revised. What is the Norwegian Government's view of this? Will the government take the initiative to discuss the distribution of tasks and costs in the Schengen cooperation with the other participating countries with a view to a fairer distribution, or is the government's policy following the example of the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e523	A high number of people want to migrate to Europe, and many come across the Mediterranean, for which the interpellant has explained well. There have been an increasing number of asylum seekers in Europe in recent years. In 2014, more than 500,000 people applied for asylum. Europe's outer border is also our outer border through Schengen cooperation. As a Schengen country, Norway has an interest in contributing to the joint management of migration pressure against Europe’s external borders. Many migrants travel on to northern European countries, including Norway, and the number of asylum seekers in Norway is initially closely linked to the number of people migrating to Europe. Norway, as the interpellant was also involved, is affected as a shipping nation. Norwegian ships have made a great effort to save several thousand refugees in distress at sea. The challenges of migration towards Europe require, in addition to efforts at the external borders, action within Europe and action aimed at countries of origin and transit. First, I would like to say a few words about action at Europe's external border. Each country is responsible for the control of its part of the external border. However, some countries have greater pressures on their external borders than others, and several different mechanisms have been established to assist these countries through both the Border and Visa Funds and the Frontex Border Control Agency. Norway has contributed to Frontex with personnel and equipment and has participated in several joint operations in the Mediterranean and in the Aegean Sea. Norwegian contributions to joint operations contribute to ensuring that migrants in distress are rescued and that Norwegian ships are able to deliver to migrants they have taken on board properly. It is also central that the fight against trafficking in human beings and trafficking is stepped up both at the external borders of Europe and in countries of origin and transit. Norway supports the fight against the criminal networks involved in this activity in several ways, including: through Europol, Interpol, Frontex and UNODC. As mentioned above, cooperation with countries of origin and transit is central. Most of the refugees are in neighbouring countries, and most of the large host countries are even developing countries or middle-income countries. Norway is already making a significant contribution to providing financial and humanitarian assistance to several of the most central countries of origin and transit. The government's European strategy shows that we need to address the causes of migration. This means that, together with the EU, we must strengthen cooperation with the countries from which migrants come and travel through on their way to Europe. The aim is to promote human rights, democracy, peace and economic development in these countries. The European neighbourhood is also ours, and we have a common interest in ensuring that the neighbourhood is as secure and stable as possible. A cooperation area is the EU Regional Development and Protection Programmes, which focuses on actions for development and protection in North Africa, the Middle East and the Horn of Africa. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has just decided to contribute to such a programme for Syrian refugees in neighbouring countries. Norway has further engaged in the Khartoum process, which is enshrined in a Joint Declaration between the EU and the AU on combating irregular migration, trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings on the Horn of Africa and in East Africa. We are in the process of linking ourselves to a similar process for West Africa, the so-called Rabat process. It is important for Norway that the Dublin system remains and works well. This system ensures that migrants are given the opportunity to apply for asylum and that the application is dealt with in one country. It is important for Norway that migrants arriving in Europe be treated in line with this common legislation. If not everyone who comes is registered under the Eurodac Regulation, it is not possible to ensure the proper handling of asylum applications. Some European countries experience a greater pressure than others by bringing many migrants to the countries. Norway has therefore assisted these countries. This includes, among other things: the participation of the European Support Office in the field of asylum, EASO, and the use of EEA funds in Greece. I also want to say that the system works in such a way that Norway offers some resources that we believe can also be used in the Triton operation, but there are others who decide whether they want to make use of the offers that Norway makes. We have offered much more resources than what has been accepted, and that is because there are many who want to contribute to this operation. When new contributions are requested, Norway will, of course, be in a positive position to make further contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e546	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was a review of what you have contributed from the Norwegian side, and what you have worked to get in place in recent times. But one of the main points of my interpellation was that the situation of refugees in the world is escalating, and it is escalating rapidly. There are still new crises, and there are emerging crises. I mentioned Syria, which is the worst example. There is a broad consensus that there is no solution in sight in the near future, and this will lead to a worsening of the situation. I'm a little bit concerned, at least about what I see as a defensive attitude of the government, about how we meet all these challenges. For example, the Council of State replied: nor whether the proposals outlined by the Refugee Aid and the Shipowners’ Association as necessary to remedy the situation they are experiencing will be met. Clearly, it must be said to be in Norwegian interest to help Norwegian shipping and business operating in those areas. I am pleased to follow up on my own European strategy and to have arrangements in place to help refugees in the neighbourhoods, as close as possible to what the Council of State had to say – linked to Syrian refugees. It is also positive to offer resources for the Triton operation, but it could be nice if the Council of State helped to inform us about what resources Norway has actually offered, to which Frontex cooperation has declined, since it describes the situation that is not sufficient to address the challenges that are there. Then I think we have to come back to this and make more concrete proposals. During the fall, we have had many discussions about quota refugees, and I have previously asked questions about the government will take the initiative to bring about a European effort related to the particularly difficult situation in Syria, as we did when there was an extremely difficult situation in the Balkans in the 1990s. I understand that was not a topic here today, but that I again ask the Council of State to give feedback on what you think about it. Before Christmas, refugee aid also launched a question of whether to apply temporary residence for groups of Syrian refugees, again with reference to the situation in the Balkans and a legal provision introduced by the Aliens Act following the Balkans. Is there anything the government will consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e557	Let me first say a little about what kind of technical equipment and personnel it actually is in the Triton operation. Frontex will coordinate seven different sized ships, two aeroplanes and one helicopter during the operation. In addition, five debriefing teams will support Italian authorities in collecting information on human trafficking networks operating in countries of origin and transit, as well as two screening teams. It's kind of the operation as seen. Norway has offered competence to screeners/debriefs, i.e. some of the interview crews, document experts and dog drivers. We offered a significant number of monthly works, as this is expected, for 2015, but there was no need for everything we offered. At the same time, it is important to stress that on the provider side, we are engaged in good and close cooperation with the EU on these issues. At the same time, I also presented a number of measures that we have taken with regard to the neighbourhoods, and the proposals of the Refugee Council and the Shipowners' Association will, of course, be assessed by the Government. All good proposals that can help remedy a difficult situation are important to bring with them. But I also want to point out that Norway is now taking a significantly greater share of and a greater responsibility for the refugees coming from Syria than what was done earlier. In 2013, when the inter-pellant party was in government, Norway received 1 120 refugees. In 2014, after the government change, the figure was 1,620. The 2015 budget has decided to accept 2 120 refugees. Then everyone will agree with a recital that says there is a drop in the ocean when you see the huge refugee disaster that is now hitting Syria and the neighbourhoods. For this reason, the efforts made in the neighbourhoods in cooperation with the EU and, to some extent, in Norwegian refrigerators through other partners, such as Norway, are also necessary. The U.N., crucial for the greatest possible assistance of those in the terrible difficult situation in which these refugees are located. We will constantly make an ongoing assessment of both requests from our partners and whether there are further actions that we can do on our own. It is a good and close dialogue, these are the themes of the meetings we have in the relevant forums, and it is thus well followed up by the Norwegian authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e570	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising this important debate on a serious topic. Thousands of people are trying, as has been said, to get above sea level to Europe. They have lost hope in their own country and may experience this as the only opportunity they have for a better life. In crowded boats, the probability of not surviving the crossing is high. At the same time, efforts are stepped down, leading to greater uncertainty for the refugees trying to get over the sea. Triton, a joint effort from the EU, has now replaced Mare Nostrum, and Triton only takes care of the boat refugees they come across where they patrol, as opposed to the ships actively looking for boats with refugees in distress at sea. They arrive at Europe, and then it is Italy first, but it is a shared responsibility, because Europe's outer border is our outer border in Schengen cooperation. I'm glad the minister points out that. This was also the theme of the Questionnaire on 5 November. At that time, questions were asked whether Norway would take initiatives towards the EU in order to ensure that there would be a more fully coordinated effort by an integrated Europe in the situation we are experiencing in southern Europe. Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende gave us the assurance that Norway would take part in such an initiative. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, but I would also like to hear answers as to whether such an initiative has been taken. It's important to have more thoughts in your head at the same time. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to contribute so that refugees get help in the country from which they come, so that they do not be driven on flight initially. At the same time, we have been concerned that Norway should receive more quota refugees, and it is important that refugees are channelled through the UN system so that they do not get into the hands of cynical traffickers. I am pleased that in this year's budgetary agreement between the government, the Left and the Christian People's Party, we agreed that Norway would accept 500 additional quota refugees. The most important thing Norway can do is to engage actively in peace-building, and in the prevention and management of conflict, so that poor and war-affected children and adults are given hope of a future in their own country and that they are not driven away.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e585	I would also like to thank the interpellant for bringing up a matter that shakes us all. He points out that over 3,200 drowned in the course of the last year after they embarked on the unlikely dangerous voyage as boat refugees on the Mediterranean from the African mainland to Europe. It is war and persecution in the homelands that largely create refugee routes across the Mediterranean. Europe does not solve the problem through monitoring and control alone. If the refugee dream is to be stopped, we must also help to limit the persecution that these people have been subjected to in the countries from which they come. Death rates are so dramatic, in search-prone, out-of-court boats and rubber rafts, that from the side of the European countries, we need to do more to stop those who feel rich in organizing the death journeys across the Mediterranean. Italy, which receives most of the boat refugees, cannot stand alone in this fight. The refugee aid and the Norwegian Shipowners’ Association have merged to alert and launch actions that my Norwegian and international authorities need to implement. I'll use the opportunity to add pink to Norwegian ships for their efforts to rescue people in the rough of the open sea. On the website of the Swedish Shipowner's Association I see that they can tell that they only received messages on one day last fall about nine simultaneous rescue operations with over 100 refugees in each boat. I also share the assessment of Jan Aegean in Refugee Aid when he says that responsibility must be shared. Norwegian ships become almost floating refugee camps, loaded with women, children, young men and families. The boats depend on a functioning receiver, and we also depend on measures that limit the refugee dream and the cynical exploitation of the refugees by those who organise the traffic. I see that the United Nations has stated that in the fall there were about 750,000 people in North Africa waiting for an opportunity to get over the Mediterranean. Many of these will never land alive on our side of the sea. From the Refugee Aid and the Norwegian Shipowners' Association, there are concrete proposals for action that they think need to be followed up, and the interpellant has listed these, so I will not repeat them. For Storting it has therefore been, and is, important to get a response from the government on whether it is agreed in these measures from the Refugee Aid and the Shipowners' Association, and on how she plans to follow them up. It also applies to other measures to improve the situation, because it is a situation that we, like a civilised society, cannot live with. Something has to be done. The councils have pointed out some things here today, and I thank you for the answers that he has given to the interpellant. So the question of whether government is offensive enough. Do we need to take new measures to improve this terrible situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e603	What is positive about this debate today is that, at least, it is now said that both the Labour Party and perhaps the Christian People's Party and the Central Party agree with the proposals that the parties were with and voted down just before Christmas, namely that Norway should take an initiative to get a new international action to save people in distress, to flee across the Mediterranean, and also to look at the Dublin Agreement and make changes to it, so that there can be a division of responsibilities that does not cause that agreement to slip. I'm glad. At the anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall 20 years ago and today on the day of Holocaust, there may be reason to think about why people are fleeing. There might also be reason to think about what walls do with people. It's not like we're tearing walls today, we're building new ones. Walls are being built around Europe today, which means that some of the people we are talking about today do not come in, even though they obviously need protection. What are these walls doing to us? I think they become attitudes, and I think they become culture. Instead of looking at migration as a sign of freedom, it has become a sign of crime and something we do not want. I mean it's serious, and I think that's why we're so reserved now to see what's actually happening around us in the world. There is a need to take a concrete international initiative to replace the Mare Nostrum action. Frontex is no rescue action, Frontex is border control! I have also asked the Minister of Justice what we are doing to control what is happening at these borders, because we have seen terrible ugly pictures from, among other things. Spanish enclaves in Africa, where asylum seekers are turned unconscious and withdrawn again across borders. This is also part of Frontex and what's happening there. Secondly, Mare Nostrum was an action to save people in distress at sea. And what did they do, as Triton now doesn't do? One is that they actually lighten up after people, and they found them – they saved thousands of lives! Besides, they went a lot closer to the African continent, because that's where the boats come from, and that's where people often put life. And what was also the effect of going closer to the African mainland, which you can't achieve with the Triton action today? It was then that you had more opportunity to get hold of some of the human smugglers who are on these boats, often for a time, before they go back in with other boats. When the Mare Nostrum action was under way, they arrested – as far as I was informed – 700 human smugglers. It is a very important part of the job that should be done, and that is not now done by Triton, as it is now. As it is now, it is the commercial fleet and Italy that are left with the greatest responsibility. They get far too little support in the rescue work. When there is no aid, it has also led to Italy's seas having stepped down its sea rescue work. This is very serious. Very many of those who now go out over the Mediterranean in the boat come from Syria. It is a shame that Norway does not accept any more Syrian refugees. I heard the minister say it was less three years ago. Yes, and the refugee disaster is increasing, the crisis in the neighbourhoods is increasing, in the refugee camps. It is politically dangerous, it is dangerous to health. We have to accept more! There are many who are now also refugees from African countries. I can only recall what is happening in Congo, what is happening in Nigeria, what is happening in several of these countries. Many of these people who are completely desperate, drowning in the Mediterranean, we can save if we take such an initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e618	We can at least agree after this debate that there is a broad consensus that we have a responsibility. To put it that way in the words of the Council of State: Europe's outer border is also our outer border. This external border is, of course, important for controlling immigration into Europe, but it also creates some unsustainable and difficult situations that we have discussed here today. Let me also take the opportunity to thank you for the comments that have been made on the matter. Governments answered the question of what Norway is offering in connection with Triton. I hope that's in line with the resources we have that have been requested. On the other hand, I am a little surprised that, almost half a year after the proposals from the Refugee Aid and the Shipowners' Association were put forward, they have not yet been evaluated and concluded whether one or more of these proposals should go further. I think it's a very passive attitude. Then the Council of State chooses to bring forward the discussion on state budgets and how many quota refugees the size has prioritised at different times. We have had that debate before. I don't intend to answer that, except to say that this interpellation was meant to be about the future. But if the Council of State still intends to discuss the number of quota refugees under the red-green government, he gets to do so, and then we'll have others take responsibility for discussing what the future will be like. If I are to sum up the debate, I must be allowed to say that I am disappointed in the passive attitude. The representative, Karin Andersen, said in his post: this is a situation that escalates. It gets harder and harder. We will also see in 2015 TV images of fragile craft with people stacked under the deck, and where there is plenty on deck – boats that there is a great risk of going down. There's no positive development to track, it's on the contrary a negative development. Then the answer cannot be that we should just sit and wait and have an ongoing dialogue with our partners. Of course we should, but we also need to make some decisions, and we need to take some action. I hope that this interpellation debate has at least given some signals from the Storting to the government that this is an area you have to follow up more closely. At least we from the Workers' Party will. We have now repeatedly addressed various issues without getting any particular attention from the government, so we have to consider how we will continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e631	Let me first say that it is very positive that the perception of reality is quite similar among those who have participated in this debate. It is a major refugee disaster, and it grows every day. The people involved are in a deep and serious crisis. I also think, although not everyone has been very clear about it, that there is quite a broad consensus that the main effort must be directed towards the neighbourhoods, because that is where we can actually help most. Ensuring that we have good and safe neighbourhoods as far as possible is an important prerequisite for most refugees, because they do not cross the Mediterranean and they do not end up in Europe. That's why it's also important that you not only look at some parts of this challenge, but you see the whole picture. It is clear to me, as far as the debate has come out, that we all have a common interest in that perspective, and it is also, as far as I understand, very much supported that we should help through the opportunities we have to assist through the European Union, and it is important for everyone that we ensure the fight against trafficking in human beings. I think that's a good starting point. Then the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of European Affairs and the Minister of Justice and Security in various areas will do what we can to take the initiative both to follow up and to contribute to operations that are relevant, where Norway can contribute even more than we do today. I would like to remind you that in the last round we expressed our desire to contribute more, but the resources were not accepted because they did not need that much resources. I really think it's a positive picture of it, which doesn't come out so clearly, that there are many people who want to contribute. It would be much worse if we were in a different situation, where few wanted to contribute – that there was pressure on resources in such a way that it had created a problem. If you see this in the slightly large picture, it is really good that there are so many people who want to help make this operation as good as possible, that some of the Norwegian contributions have not come to the competition. For the time being, I will take the call not to discuss refugee numbers under the previous government and the sitting, but it is still an undisputed fact what I mentioned in my previous post, although the representative Andersen may have tried to indicate something else: we are taking a greater responsibility now than we have ever done. We will continue to do that, but that responsibility cannot only be taken through the refugee quota in Norway, it must also be taken into account in a number of other areas, and I believe that the government is forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e641	That is when the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e657	The Arctic area has become an increasingly important arena of international policy – while Norwegian policy in the Arctic is being seen to a large extent as part of the regionally focused Northern Region policy, thus losing some of its international focus. Norway needs an Arctic strategy where Svalbard is a key component. Norway’s policy in the Arctic is based on sustainability and low voltage. This has been successful in Norway’s visible profile and strong presence in areas where the major acts in particular have had their strategic interests. If the Arctic continues to be characterised by low tension, Norway’s role as an actor must not only be maintained but further developed in line with the strategic interests of the international community. The spearhead of Norway's Arctic policy has been our activity in Svalbard and Longyearbyen based on research and education, space activities, travel and coal operations. The first three areas are on the rise, while the coal industry is now on the way out as the most important support for a versatile settlement, with the challenges it poses. In a relatively short time, this will have consequences for the longyearby society far beyond coal operations isolated as a business. The overall objectives of the Svalbard policy for Norway are a consistent and firm enforcement of sovereignty, proper compliance with the Svalbard Treaty and control of compliance with the Treaty, the preservation of peace and stability in the area, the conservation of the area’s unique wilderness nature and the maintenance of Norwegian communities on the island group. There is broad political agreement on these objectives, which have been in place for a long time. History has shown that the management of the archipelago according to these objectives has been successful. An important objective is to ensure Norwegian presence through a robust and viable settlement in Longyearbyen. However, in the current administration Svalbard — as in Norway else — will have different cross-cutting considerations, such as: in the case of food, environmental and protection interests. Svalbard has a unique natural and cultural heritage that Norwegian authorities have a special responsibility to preserve. The protection of the natural environment is therefore one of the long lines of Norwegian swallowing policy, and all industrial activities, resource use and research shall take place within the framework of the conservation of Svalbard's natural environment and cultural memories. At the same time, there is an objective of maintaining Norwegian communities on the island group, and there is therefore a need to facilitate activities to ensure this. The overall sulphide policy provides sufficient flexibility and robustness both in balancing different considerations and in developing elsewhere in the archipelago. Climate change also offers new opportunities for Svalbard, while the issue of coal management poses special challenges, as it is just a lower international coal price that now gives us a very special challenge on Svalbard. We have five major tasks at Svalbard. The first is effective sovereignty enforcement with what it involves by resource monitoring, with the presence of coastguards, with a focus on the resources of the worker, with a focus on what it also involves by search and rescue for a very large and complex and vulnerable area. The second major task is the conservation of the area’s unique wilderness nature. Svalbard has an internationally important and valuable natural and cultural heritage that Norway has a specific responsibility to preserve. This was also underlined in the previous big news about Svalbard, where Norway has a moral responsibility to preserve some of Europe’s last wilderness. Protection of the natural environment is one of the long lines of Norwegian swallowing policy. This is also the basis of the Svalbard Treaty, which provides for the conservation of Svalbard's natural environment, and already when the Treaty entered into force in 1925, it was then heavily reduced by the svalbard. Since then, more than half of Svalbard’s land and territorial waters are covered by protected areas. Today, the preservation of Svalbard’s unique wilderness nature is one of the main objectives of Norwegian svalbard policy, and it is Norwegian policy that environmental considerations should be given priority in the event of conflict with other interests. Since the previous notification, this has been translated into practice through new and modern environmental legislation and, as I said, the creation of a number of new protection areas. Perhaps the biggest challenge today is to maintain the longyearby community as a viable community. Maintaining a viable community on Svalbard requires a critical mass. Today, about 2 100 people live in Longyearbyen. Drey 2000 is already at the lower end of what is considered sufficient to maintain a modern society of 78 degrees north. It's important to keep Longyearbyen as a family community where you have a varied offer over a long time. The economic problems in Great Norwegian put swallowing policy to the test. This is a national challenge and arises at the same time as the importance of Norwegian activity and presence on Svalbard may be more important than ever. The growing interest in the Arctic makes the importance of Norway’s position more important in both a local, national and global perspective. However, the question is not whether coal operations should be discontinued, but in what way. It's hard to imagine that in a world where we're going to achieve the climate goals, where we're going to achieve the two-degree goal, we don't get a situation where there's enough coal, and we want to use less and less of it. It's hard to imagine that there won't be a permanent situation with low coal prices, which we have to deal with and prepare for. Although there are coal reserves on Svalbard, with the production now in Svea Nord and Lunkfjell, the resource – even with reduced production – will be exhausted in 2023 and will have to be transferred to new areas. On the left hand side, we can't see that there should be any basis for entering the other areas, i.e. the Ice Pellet or the Opera Mountain, in order to exploit and further develop the operation in a situation where a low oil price is to be expected. Although some measures can be taken here to improve the quality of the coal so that it can be used for industrial purposes, a large part will still have to be used for energy purposes. Based on the market situation we are facing and the objective of international climate policy, we need to prepare for how to implement a change to Svalbard that will keep the settlement in Longyearbyen as a diverse society, while taking on board the changes that need to be made. Large Norwegians, who have large properties on Svalbard and run a large business, will nevertheless have to be central to such a conversion. Svalbard is also important as a research platform. Svalbard is the most research-intensive part of Norway and also the most international. Researchers have been applying for Svalbard for hundreds of years, which in recent times has become easily accessible for communication and can offer good living conditions for shorter or longer stays. In recent decades, considerable resources have been invested in heavy infrastructure for research and monitoring, on the one hand from Norway and on the other from international efforts. In the current situation of Svalbard, it is important to continue the efforts both on education and on research, and also on the communication and space initiatives at Svalbard. Perhaps the most important point is to consider options for Svalbard as an international infrastructure node. Svalbard is one of the world’s most affected areas of climate change. At the same time, areas are generally characterised by increasing activity. The trend in recent years shows that shipping in the Arctic areas is increasing. Reduced ice prevalence will make the area more accessible to traffic and other activities. For Svalbard, this applies in particular to ship traffic and cruise tourism, but also to the possibilities of having an aerodrome and an accessibility as far north as there is no other place in the world. It is important that Svalbard and Spitsbergen take advantage of the opportunities to establish not only the Longyearbyen but also Svalbard as a whole as a hub for logistics and search and rescue. To conclude, we have had three supports in Svalbard activities that have been of fundamental importance: tourism, coal activities, research and education. Coal's on its way out. We have to make more of the logistics business. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e697	That's definitely the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e700	The interpellation has been notified to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but is answered by me as Minister for Justice and Security because I also have the honour of being Minister for Svalbard and coordinate the government's svalbard policy. I want to thank you for the interpellance and not least for a very good, reflected and balanced post from the interpellant's side right now. The interpellant went through many of the benefits and many of the challenges that Svalbard has. I'll say a little bit more about it in my post. In the past there have been four comprehensive wholesale notifications of Svalbard: St. ermeld. No 39 for 1974-75, St.meld No. 40 for 1985-86, St. meld No. 9 for 1999-2000 and St. ermeld. No 22 for 2008-2009. Thus, the notifications have been regularly promoted over time to capture the evolution of Svalbard at that time and provide the basis for a stable and predictable salbard policy. I have to say I'm very proud and pleased to be able to tell Stortinget that the government has recently decided to make a new swallow-bart message, precisely because there's so much happening on Svalbard now, and it's vital that we see this in context. The notifications are comprehensive, in the sense that they address the entire squalid policy – all aspects of sulphide policy – and assess them against the main objectives. There is a long tradition for these reviews, and it has proved that this is a good way to ensure a stable and long-term management of Svalbard. Thus, the government's strategy for the further development of Longyearbyen will be one of the most important issues when the government presents this big message. Then the interpellant touches on a number of important issues that are entirely natural discussions along the way in such a reporting work. The overall objectives of the squalor policy have been well established for a long time, as the interpellant was involved. They were confirmed by Stortinget's treatment of St. meld. No 40 for 1985-86 and for the examination of subsequent notifications and the annual svalbard budgets. I just want to remember what the goal is. There are five specific objectives: consistent and firm enforcement of sovereignty proper compliance with the Svalbard Treaty and monitoring compliance with the Treaty on the conservation of tranquillity and stability in the area of conservation of the area’s unique wild-land nature maintaining Norwegian communities on the island group; There is broad support for these objectives. I find it natural to take these objectives into account also in the discussions to be held in the communication. The inter-pellant also points out that if the Arctic continues to be characterised by low voltage, Norway’s role as an actor must be further developed. I agree. I would also like to stress here that the swallowing policy consists of a balance between a number of policy areas – ranging from security policy to foreign policy, climate and environment and business, resource and research policies. To achieve the best possible balance between different policy areas, it is important for me to ensure a well-established and inclusive process. It is important to look at the full spectrum in the context and to assess opportunities and challenges. No final decision has been taken on the submission of the notification, but it is of course assessed in consultation with the departments concerned. However, I would like to mention – not least based on the issues outlined by the interpellant in its article – that the work on such a message is extensive and that it has just been started. However, we have given high priority to the work, and the message will be presented to the Stortinget as soon as possible. The interpellant also mentions some aspects of the coal operation at Svalbard. We are familiar with the situation that Great Norwegian is now in, where they have carried out a major manning reduction and put forward a separate plan for how operations must be converted for the future. These are matters which are followed up by the Minister of Industry in the sense of ownership, in a normal way. But at the same time, it is important to have the perspective that the interpellant also affected, namely that Great Norske has had and has a very important role in the community in Longyearbyen. The activity Great Norwegian generates has led to a lot of activity far beyond the coal industry itself. Derived activities — such as entrepreneurship — in Longyearbyen are also adversely affected by the conversion and situation of Great Norwegian. There will again be consequences for community services in kindergarten, school and much more. To be able to maintain a viable and viable Longyearbyen, we depend on having a critical mass, so that we can get the fundamental offers offered by local government today. Therefore, it is also important to ensure a comprehensive view of the opportunities offered by Svalbard and the svalbard communities in relation to the challenges that are now emerging. The question of future coal operations on Svalbard must also be addressed in such a communication. However, it is important to remember that any end to Norwegian coal operation on Svalbard does not mean that coal operation on Svalbard is over. But these are demanding questions, which we have to get back to in the message. The same applies to future energy supply in Longyearbyen. An upgrade of the power plant has now been carried out, which is currently coal-based. Although the coal power plant will now have a potential lifetime of up to 25 years longer, the government believes it is important to get a solution for the future energy supply now. It is then necessary to look at how new technologies can be used to provide Longyearbyen with an environmentally friendly and forward-looking power supply. That is why the government has already started this work. We will set up a working group to look at the opportunities that exist now and in the future, to provide environmentally friendly alternatives to coal power, and also to stimulate an environment of expertise in Svalbard linked to a future Arctic environmentally friendly energy supply, which can be significant far beyond the borders of Norway. In demanding times, the community in Longyearbyen has also in the past found new strength to solve difficult situations. I have to say that on my visit to Longyearbyen and Svalbard, I am impressed by the power that lies in the local environment, and the ability that they have to find new, creative and constructive ways of feeding – to be creative and secure the Longyearbyen and the future of the swallowing communities. This involvement will in itself be an important contribution to the reporting process. Among other things, further work is now being done at the planning stage with the completion of a larger berth. Today, Kaia is relatively short, creating major challenges when cruise ships are going to call Longyearbyen. A new business plan has been developed, which can really give the travel industry a puff. It is important to facilitate the further development of tourism as a food route, while ensuring the natural values of Svalbard in a satisfactory way. Knowledge is also an important pillar of the development of the swallowing communities. UNIS is a central player and is internationally sought after. The community of New Ålesund is also a very important research venue. There is still the potential to further develop knowledge as an important element of the swallowing future. I think this is a good interpellation. I think it is good that Stortinget now has the opportunity to make some recordings in connection with the work that we have started with a new swallow bar message. I welcome the further discussions on the development of Svalbard – both in the process of the forthcoming big message and not least in the follow-up to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e752	I would like to thank the Council of State for its contributions and very much appreciate the fact that we are now receiving a new swallow-bard message. I also think that in that message it is absolutely necessary to draw it up with Svalbard's role as a logistics center. It's important how it can be further developed. As the role of the Arctic is becoming more important internationally, the role of Svalbard will also become more important, and opportunities will also be increased. I think it is crucial to build up under the low voltage policy that we want, that we have a search and rescue system, that we have a resource management, that we have a robustness in our activity on Svalbard that many are interested in maintaining. Many countries have an interest in Norway implementing and operating as well as possible, and this is also a basis for a low-voltage policy in the Arctic. The problem now is that we have a bad time. There's a big downfall in Great Norwegian right now. I guess it's already manned down with 90 men plus, and it's running with a lot of reduced operation. Now that you've asked for a government loan of 450 million. kr, in part this has one element that is very positive, namely to establish a new company, with the abbreviation SNU, which is to look at conversion possibilities, look at how to use the great activity of Great Norske to contribute to a conversion – but with 50 million. kr. For 400 million. kr is the basis for maintaining the strongly reduced activity – and this is the case in 2015, 2016 – pending a higher coal price and the possibility of re-establishing profitability. There may be doubts as to whether that possibility is actually there, with the expected coal prices. At least it's important that you have a careful assessment of this, and how it can actually turn out. And even if you get a new profitability, the time perspective is anyhow short. For Lunkefjell and Svea Nord, it is at best until 2023, maybe only 2019, and even with new areas, the perspective is only towards 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e761	The recording of a logistics center is a very good recording, which is a natural part of the follow-up we're going to have in connection with the work on the swallowing message. I also want to stress that despite the fact that Great Norske has now manned down by 90 people, which is actually phase 2, because it was carried out a deboarding for not long time back as well – it is well beyond 60 of these people who have a fixed stay in Longyearbyen, and it affects, of course, the entire community – I still think it is interesting to note the commitment that is in the community to ensure the necessary conversion, and to help you manage to find alternatives. There is, as the interpellant is involved, increased ship traffic in this area. It also demands that we have a good SAR readiness. SAR preparedness at Svalbard has now been significantly improved in recent years. There are two fully-fledged Super Puma rescue helicopters there, which are a significant improvement in previous preparedness. There is also a new employment ship in place, in addition to the fact that there is a new operating centre at Sysselmann, which collectively means that we have a standby on Svalbard that is very, very good. The increased traffic in ships that we see is necessary. Then I can't go in and assess the specific conditions and questions around Great Norwegian. It is the Minister of Industry who is following up the migration plans in the owner's trail. But I am absolutely convinced that, when you know the commitment of both Svalbard and the political environment in Norway, you will find good solutions to ensure that we will have a viable, good and strong environment in Longyearbyen in the future. Nor do I believe that we should underestimate the work we have undertaken in connection with future energy supply in Longyearbyen. It could have the potential to develop technology and skills, which can also be an attractive – I would say – way of life for parts of the infrastructure and the work done there. So despite the fact that there are some clouds in the horizon, I think there are many possibilities in the current situation, and I'm very concerned that we are in common, because the swallowing policy is an area where there is very great political consensus, to find the solutions that make us secure a viable Longyearbyen in the future, regardless of the fate of coal drift.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e774	An interpellation on Svalbard and the future of Svalbard is a fine opportunity for the Storting to debate the very future of the island group. The Workers' Party is committed to the objectives of the St.meld swallowing policy. No 22 for 2008-2009: there shall be a consistent and firm enforcement of the sovereignty of the archipelago and proper compliance and compliance with the Svalbard Treaty by the Norwegian side. It is important that there is still peace and stability in the area and that the special nature of the wilderness is preserved. Norwegian sovereignty on the island group shall be maintained. The Svalbard Treaty of 9 February 1920 gives Norway ‘the full and unrestricted sovereignty’ over Svalbard. The Svalbard Act of l7. July 1925 states that Svalbard is part of the Kingdom of Norway. The svalbard community has had four main legs to stand on: coal extraction, research, education and travel. Through these pillars, the svalbard community has also become a family society where it has been good both to live and to work. The fall in the coal price and the reduction of the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkkompani has consequences for mining and for the rest of the swallowing community. The government has reported that they do not consider changing the state ownership structure of Great Norwegian. The Labour Party is satisfied with this, and we expect ownership to remain firm, that it will not be rocked, and that the government will consider a wide range of instruments to meet the demanding situation facing the swallowing society in the wake of the death of Great Norske. The eye group is a unique natural landscape, and an industry that is important for tourism but has a clear limitation of growth. Large parts of Svalbard consist of pristine nature, and it is limited how many tourists Svalbard can accept without adversely affecting nature. Furthermore, both settlement, fishing activities and tourism require satisfactory safety related, inter alia, to: search and rescue. In this area, we see climate change first, with winters without frozen fjords where there has been ice in the past. Yesterday, I heard an interview on the radio with marine scientists who were researching polar species at sea, which was possible because the Kongsfjord at New Ålesund had not been frozen in the last ten years. Svalbard is already an international research area, and there is nothing to suggest that research in this area will be less attractive. The location is suitable for atmospheric studies. Norway also has a special responsibility to develop knowledge of polar areas, and a major research effort was generated by the 2007-2009 International Polar Year. UNIS, University of Svalbard, has approx. 450 students at different courses each year, with a distribution of 50 pst. Norwegian and 50 pst. foreign students. It is a unique offer of various Arctic studies and a contribution to enhancing Arctic competence, and it is a follow-up to Norway’s commitments on Svalbard. When the number of employees in the Svalbard mines goes down, it is even more important that the government strengthens the other Svalbard businesses. For the Workers' Party, a well-functioning swallow-bard society is important in order for us to have a clear presence on the Spitsberg. The Minister has now announced a new swallowing message. The Labour Party looks forward to discussing this important strategic area for Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e791	I have to thank the interpellant for addressing a topic that is very important both in time and thematically. It is an important topic of both geopolitical and security policy, while, when we involve the swallowing community, we also focus on local and industrial policies in such a debate. The Arctic is the place where we are most concrete about the climate challenges, while the paradox is that challenges also offer opportunities. That's a little bit of the background because I think this is a very correct and important interpellation. What opportunities do you have in the Arctic? I am not going to drag up all the messages that have been – it has been well explained here. Research is an important part of everyday life in the svalbard community, and research efforts can be increased in many ways. We also have messages that have said that we are not good enough to exploit the research infrastructure that is already present up there. So there are possibilities to do more research, the last one shown by the National Audit Office's review of this activity. I guess we're dealing with this in Stortinget last fall. So to the community: as a member of the Business Committee, I often meet representatives of the local government who are out working for their community in business policy. They have presented travel strategies, they have presented business strategies to us, they have presented a new port strategy. They're looking ahead, they're seeing the challenges we're discussing here. I would therefore like to mention here locally that this is an active society, and I experience them as both forward-looking and offensive in terms of the challenges that are being presented. When we get a swallowing report, which the council happily reported here, I think we should also be careful to engage the community in part of that job. They're doing a lot right. They create alliances – I record that the local government has concluded a cooperation agreement with Mo Industriepark because there is an environment that helps them to think industrially in the future. Travel life actors at Svalbard have developed a strategy for how to work with the big ones. They are among the most powerful in Norwegian travel life to exploit a locomotive like Hurtigruta in terms of creating a qualitatively good travel life, a market-oriented travel life and a travel life you can make money on. So it's a business and local government up there that's very good. From the government's work, we should also mention the changes made to the Swallows Environmental Act in order to give local government greater autonomy over the areas up there in order to be able to think more about and think more about their own lives. Finally, I would like to thank the interpellant again for this opportunity. I believe that in this situation the swallowing society is now, it is important that we get these debates in the Storting too. I also think they appreciate it in the north. And then I'll once again express my joy at the fact that it's going to be a swallow-bard message. I think few things are more important to do right now than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e808	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising an important question for debate in the main hall. The question is important both to illustrate how Norway asserts sovereignty and to illustrate how we manage the responsibility we have for the area. It is, as has been said here, broad agreement in this Chamber on the main objectives of the svalbard policy. Measurements shall be determined, and history has shown that the management of the measurements has been successful. How we act in the Arctic and in Svalbard is important to assert sovereignty, but we also encounter difficult decisions. Cross-cutting considerations such as the environment, industry and asserting sovereignty meet each other. As the interpellant points out, on a general basis, the swallowing community has three important feet: mining, knowledge and research — and tourism. I would also like to start by saying that I see it as inappropriate to introduce measures that would weaken the bus charge on Svalbard. Great Norwegian has for many years been completely decisive for the bus ride on Svalbard. They have also delivered good results and ploughed money into the treasury. But as the interpellant quite rightly points out, coal is an important part of history, but not of the future. Not only on a world-wide basis, coal extraction is problematic, but also because it occurs in one of the most vulnerable natural areas in the world. When a possible change in the production of coal on Svalbard can occur, it is difficult to say. Innovation is therefore important in order to achieve the goals we need. The proportion of busied people associated with mining is also falling. Norway has for all years made it clear that Svalbard is a Norwegian region, which is followed by Norway. by the Svalbard Treaty. A very unfortunate event had a difor last spring when there was a question of ownership of Norwegian property at Svalbard. One saw a situation where a larger property could be sold abroad. Rightly, the view of public ownership is shared in this room, but if ownership had been sold abroad, it would only have been an expression of very poor political craftsmanship from the Norwegian authorities' side. So far, Longyearbyen has been a mining community. In the future, Longyearbyen will be an important strategic hub in the Arctic, with an airport, port and a well-functioning community. It will also be a society in which the Norwegian state has invested, and will invest, large amounts of money. It is therefore positive that Big Norske herself is taking the initiative for a new business through a new development company. When it comes to the development of the Arctic, it depends on long-term plans that ensure that it is reliable for the industries and that it asserts sovereignty over the area in an unversatile future. The centre party is seeing the announcement of a new growth message about Svalbard, and we see that there is a hurry to initiate conversion measures, as the interpellant has pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e825	I would also like to thank the interpellant Elvesuen for raising an important topic at an important time. I would like to point out that the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European It is therefore good to hear that the government proposes to make a new big message about Svalbard, and it is good to note that both the interpellant, the representative of the Central Party and some others make it clear that coal is not part of Svalbard's future. With regard to the forthcoming big-time announcement, there will be a strong call from the Greens that the big-time message now actually addresses what has obviously been for a very long time the prospects for Svalbard, which is not to doubt coal drift, which is not to insist that it is some foreign policy magically linked to coal drift that makes it particularly suitable for maintaining settlement, and which is offensively resolved by the obvious task of further developing the Norwegian svalbard society of a world-leading sustainable polar society. Because that's very possible. When I was at Svalbard for the first time, in 1978, Svalbard was a 100pst. coal communities. It was not possible to buy anything anywhere there, it was not possible to get a place to live, and there was nothing other than coal. The only exception was that you could buy beer at the house, and when you bought beer at the house, you got monopolistic money back on which it said ‘Large Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkkompani’. Since it has become more than twice the size of the Norwegian swallowbard society and has gained a much, much greater national and international significance. The development that has taken place on Svalbard in the last 30 years is quite irrevocably proof that this society is doing absolutely brilliantly with less and less and eventually not coal. So now let's finish this completely antiquated debate that the Norwegian swallow-bard society is dependent on coal. The Norwegian swallow-bard society is dependent on transitioning to sustainable development — and it is a bit clumsy. That's why it's also very interesting that Big Norske has asked for 450 million aid. SEK, of which 400 million. kr shall be used to maintain coal operations and 50 million. kr to further develop new industries. The simple and obvious solution in the first place is to turn the amounts down. Start now, with a clear signal to make modifications to Svalbard. Then you can discuss whether Great Norwegian is the best actor, but at least it is an actor who is established on Svalbard, and who can use funds for what they should be used for, namely, creating the future and not maintaining the past. Svalbard has a unique international position as a polar community in general and as a research community in particular, and that is the position that is known and respected in the international community. People get a lot of shock when they discover that, in addition, coal is exported to an EU that we at the same time seek to tell them that they have to stop using coal so that they can buy Norwegian gas. This is not a good part of the Norwegian swallowbard profiling. The good part is research, tourism, management, knowledge and the love of the Arctic. That is why I look forward to a big message and a debate in the Stortinget that will finally take place on Svalbard in the future, and to the chance that has now finally arisen in the Stortinget, where there are at least many parties and many representatives who recognise that this path must be taken and that what is going to happen has happened, namely that fossil energy carriers are starting to fall in price for various reasons – including positive renewable development – and that it is not where we are going to invest neither policy nor money.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e836	I am pleased to receive a new notification about Svalbard. I am glad that the government has implemented this a little faster than you would have done if you were to follow the periodic cycle that has been. Governments justified this by the rapid development, and then it is also good to turn around. Coal operations on Svalbard will obviously be one of the issues under discussion. And let me just say that extracting coal for export and then energy burning is not a long-term solution for Svalbard. It seems to be a broad consensus in this room. So there's something about how to view this in the short and medium term. I think we have to live for a while so that there is coal drift on Svalbard. But hopefully you will also succeed in working on how to use this more as an additive, for example. in the steel industry than for combustion. We must be aware that there is still a coal-fired power plant on Svalbard. There must be hot water and heat in the houses of Svalbard also in the foreseeable future. I noticed that the Council of State said that it is one of the parts to be addressed in the main message. I'm very happy about that. So we hope we find a solution to that. But until we find a solution, no one has come up with any better suggestions. Big Norwegian is a very important company at Svalbard. It's almost the whole time of the state. They operate coal, and they also do so much else. Among other things, they carry out important social tasks in operating the swallowing society with some infrastructure. It's a very important moment that we can't just sit with our hands in jail and let the company go over the edge. It is therefore important for the Workers' Party to inform us that we are positive about providing support to the company, so that you get through the knee. On the other hand, we are not very positive about operating and subsidising coal, so any loans and other forms of aid must be linked to the conditions of conversion and development, as the lines in the debate here today have been. In the short term, the company must also be able to start this development, which may include, for example: loans, guarantees or other government grants are important. The research infrastructure, the potential for research on Svalbard, has been highlighted by several. I fully agree that Svalbard has unique assumptions. One of the reasons why you have unique assumptions is that you have good infrastructure as far north as you don't have anywhere else in the world. It's easy to get to Svalbard. We have also built a very good research infrastructure primarily at Kings Bay. And then it's right, as the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen pointed out, that the Riksrevision has pointed out that this infrastructure is not being exploited well enough. When we know at the same time that we are investing in a new antenna for the Kartverket in Ny-Ålesund – we will get a new research ship in 2017-2018 that is significantly larger than what is now frozen into the ice north of Svalbard and conduct research there – it is obvious that there is potential for more research, not just Norwegian research, but international research. The second reason why it is interesting to conduct research in the Arctic is, of course, that climate change is felt there foresight, and they are marked with double effects — with some variations between regions. Finally, a few words about peace and stability, which have been discussed by many. Norway has been very active in international Arctic policy for many years, mainly through Arctic Councils. After the Arctic hit many countries, many countries have developed their Arctic strategy. In Norway, we have chosen to describe it as a north-eastern strategy. What characterises and is common to all strategies is precisely the desire for peace and stability in the region. There's nothing to suggest that it shouldn't be. We have a common goal of that. Our Northern Territory diplomacy, which led to the crushing of the principle that the law of the sea is in force, is an important contribution in this way. All the States of the Arctic Council and the observers have agreed that the law of the sea is in force in the area, which almost everyone has mentioned in the debate. Let me conclude by stating that Svalbard is part of Norwegian territory. It's an island group that lies a little bit northwest of the mainland, but it's Norwegian territory.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e856	First, I want to thank the interpellant for a very good post and for addressing important questions related to Svalbard. There have been many good recordings from the pulpit here today. I'll talk about security and preparedness. As mentioned in several reports, the main area of safety policy in the northern regions of Norway is the area of interest. Therefore, the presence in the north is one of the most important national defence tasks. Civil-military cooperation is essential to ensure the resource base of Svalbard. There is broad agreement on the objectives of the swallowing policy at Stortinget. The line of consistent and firm enforcement of sovereignty, proper compliance with the Svalbard Treaty and the enforcement of the Treaty, the preservation of the unique wilderness nature of the areas and the maintenance of a Norwegian community on the island is established. Climate and environmental work in the northern regions is important for Norway and a comprehensive, long-term and sound management of natural resources is important. Climate and environment must be managed in a sustainable way and the environmental values of the area must be safeguarded through increased cooperation in an area of progressive activity. Coast Guards make important contributions to rescue preparedness, oil protection, fisheries control and other civil tasks. Through targeted inspections in areas of catch and fishing, the Coast Guard has an important role to play in effective monitoring, relevant presence and resource management in and around Svalbard. Coast Guards are a bearer of preparedness and are a stabilising factor in our resource-rich and strategically important marine areas. Modernisation and upgrade are important to maintain Svalbard operational performance. In April 2014, a new helicopter hangar opened for the Sysselmann helicopter service at Svalbard. At the same time, the rescue helicopters at that time were replaced by two new large helicopters, Super Puma. The two rescue helicopters will be able to evacuate simultaneously in the event of a major accident. They'll be able to pick up up up to 18 people each in a radius of 120 nautical miles. Helicopters have new search equipment, improved communication equipment and safety equipment. In addition, we have an important and invaluable resource on Andy Island by Orion aircraft at the 333 squadron. Orion is a long-haul maritime patrol aircraft and is an important resource and contributor to, among other things. sovereignty in Norwegian waters and with search and rescue services. Orion has capacity for long-term presence and large area searches. These overall capacities further strengthen search and rescue preparedness and contribute to increased safety and preparedness on and around Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e873	First, I would like to thank you for the debate and for the great commitment to the issue and the interest in both the Arctic and the North regions and Svalbard in particular. I think we're going to assume that Svalbard is in a dramatic situation, primarily because of climate change and precisely the fact that it's in the Arctic that the temperature changes are getting bigger, with the dramaticness of it. But these changes also offer some possibilities. I'm glad we're now getting a swallowbard message. Based on the debate, I think that is a good basis for having a broad consensus on the main lines of Norwegian swallowing policy also in the years to come, with both research and education and tourism, but also to focus on building up Svalbard as a logistics centre with the opportunities it offers for a more varied business life in the years to come on Svalbard. I think we're going to take with us that it's really about dealing fast both with investments in the ports and how we can further develop the airport, and also what the Council of State is dealing with, looking at the possibilities, i.e., look at the energy system. There is no reason to wait to launch a Svalbard concept selection study as a low-emission society. It's a process that local government itself can handle. It takes the time it takes, but it's important to get started on that job, where one also obviously looks at the coal power plant with CO2 management, but also looks at other opportunities to make Svalbard a low-carbon society. It is also important to continue the CCS project, the CO2 management project, which is on Svalbard, which is a separate research project, in which oil companies are heavily involved, and in a situation where oil companies cut their expenditure, there is a risk that this project will be less well funded in the future. It is important to continue for Svalbard but also to develop CCS internationally. We have to take over the sudden change that is now coming. A strategic business plan for Svalbard by Svalbard was developed as late as last year. Last year, there was one scenario that they thought was unlikely – it was looked at by NIBR – with a dramatic reduction in coal production at Svalbard. Now we're there. What this report shows is that there is a need for a doubling of the number of students and at the same time a doubling of the number of people employed in travel and research and education to balance the reduction in coal production. It shows that we need to act quickly. We have to come back with a lot of measures now. A further start-up with a subsidisation of coal operations is not an option for the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e892	Let me first thank you for a very good and comprehensive debate that shows that the Storting has a common starting point for the importance of further developing Longyearbyen and Svalbard. I think we have to assume that they are used to and well prepared for conversion work at Svalbard, but I think, as the interpellant was about, that the conversion is now much faster than what was the starting point. It was suggested that one over time could look at the further development of different types of activity, etc., but it is clear that the situation we are now seeing will force a faster transition than was probably the starting point. That is why I am very pleased that everyone who has been up there has expressed support for the fact that there is now a new growth message about Svalbard that can assess these questions in their entirety. There are many departments that will be involved in that work, and it is important that we ensure the necessary anchoring of the work done. I am also pleased that this is well received, despite the fact that it is really a hasty of what would normally have been the presentation phase for a new big message about Svalbard. But we think it's important, and I understand the Storting agrees, that we're adapting to the situation that's actually there, and that we're doing as well as we can to ensure the further development of the Longyearbyen, but also of the other swallow-bard communities. A lot of good recordings have been made, not least those that show that there is a good basis for the work we are about to do. I want to say that in such a situation, it is important to take into account the input that comes from different actors, who can imagine a future on Svalbard. There could be completely new things that we haven't really figured out today. Being creative and constructive to see how we can help maintain both the Longyearbyen and the other swallow-bard communities is very important. And then I'm very happy that the Storting has this glowing commitment to Svalbard. Svalbard is an incredibly important – strategically important – part of Norway. It is important for Norwegian interests, and it is important that we manage to facilitate that we still have viable communities at Svalbard. There are some challenges now, there are some clouds in the horizon, but I'm absolutely convinced that what I, after being on Svalbard sometimes, called the svalbard spirit, will help us land this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e903	That is when the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-27.ana.ud241e916	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
