ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e45	The representative Kjell Ingolf Rope Town, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the West-Agder province: Kjell Ivar Larsen For Hedmark County: Rangdi Krogstad For the province of Hordaland: Gina Knutson Barstad For the Rogaland County: Sissel Knutsen Hegdal For the counties of Troms: Sigmund Steinnes The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e75	On behalf of Anne Tingelstad Wøien, Heidi Greni and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a mandatory escalating plan for the establishment of day-to-day activities for homeless people with dementia.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e80	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e94	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e101	As case spokesman, it is a pleasure to present an opinion in which all parties in the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee will conclude on the main conclusions. Firstly, Norwegian education aid should in practice be doubled during this major period. The educational assistance component shall be increased from 7.2 pst. in 2013 to over 13 pst. in 2017. Secondly, Norway shall take on an international leadership role in the process of promising education as part of international development cooperation. But I also want to highlight a third important breakthrough. It is a follow-up to the agreement we managed to achieve in the budget work in the fall. The State budget should provide better information on what to do in the field of development policy. In this setting, the Committee has contributed to this by clarifying several training aid objectives. These sub-measures shall be reported annually by the Ministry in the budget proposals. Such a systematic approach will improve the transparency and impact of Storting. As spokesman, I would like to thank my good colleagues in the Committee for good cooperation and for the willingness to gather on joint commitment recommendations on education aid. It gives greater importance to the setting. And, not least, the Government and Foreign Minister Børge Burnde launched an offensive and sound basis on which the Committee has built. Training assistance has sometimes been seen as a long-term, perhaps a little unexciting task, with little political powder in it. In the last few years, we've experienced just how wrong it is. Before Christmas, the Pakistani girl Malala Yousafzai received the Nobel Peace Prize for her work for girls' education. She herself had been shot and nearly killed by terrorists, on her way to school. Now Malala has become a global symbol in the struggle for education as human rights. In Nigeria, the Boko Haram terrorist group fights against education based on its sharia interpretation. Several hundred girls have been abducted. In short, the word ‘boko Haram’ means ‘western education’ is ‘forbidden’. A historical draw fight is now taking place in a number of developing countries, especially in the Muslim world. Education is at the heart of that struggle. Education is burning and decisive for the future of these countries. When Norway is to take a leading role internationally, we must fight actively to ensure that the United Nations development goals post-2015 set out education as a central objective and a commitment based on international human rights. As spokesman, I would like to sum up the three overarching objectives that the Committee has set for training assistance. 1st@item: inlistbox Increase access to education. In order to include what is falling outside today, efforts must not least be directed against girls, disabled people and children who are victims of war and conflict. Cooperation in the education sector must become a focus of bilateral development cooperation with several countries. 2nd@item: inlistbox Higher learning outcomes from the school. Many are written into the school, where they learn little. Now the quality of teaching and learning outcomes is to be improved. We will focus on teacher training and on better education. 3rd@item: inlistbox More work-related education and training. Teaching is often theoretical and not relevant to the working life of students. We must promote vocational training, especially for the agricultural sector and other industries where skilled labour is required locally. Help is in use! More children than ever had schooling in the first century, but enormous tasks remain in the field of education. Norway shall contribute strongly to their resolution. The decision to step up Norwegian education aid is a milestone in the construction of a performance-oriented Norwegian development policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e145	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for a very good job and a very neat attitude and underline what was said, that all political parties join in the main conclusion of the message. More than 35 years ago, SAIH, the International Help Fund of Students and Academics, launched the slogan ‘Education for Liberation’ — a recognition of what education means for development, growth and liberation. This slogan is still SAIH's motto: the right to education, regardless of gender, regardless of social, economic or ethnic background and of course, seen from SAIH's side, the fight for academic freedom and the suppression of students. It is therefore important that the Committee takes note of SAIH’s contribution to the principle of academic freedom, and expects Norway to emphasise this principle where appropriate. When SAIH turned 50, they made a poster where the front figure in the picture is a female student. It will be a good symbolism, especially when we see what despots she and her colleagues challenge – good symbolism policy also because girls' right to basic education is threatened in many places in the world by authoritarian regimes and fanatical terrorist organizations. It's enough to mention Boko Haram in Nigeria and the Taliban in Pakistan and Afghanistan. I would like to point out what the rapporteur said on that occasion. Worldwide, nine out of ten children go to primary school, but who's the last ten percent? They make up 57 million children. Half of them are in so-called crisis and conflict areas – or ‘fragile states’, if you like. In addition, take 25 pst. of children attending school, out of school before 4th grade, approx. 34 million children. The majority of them are girls. The Committee endorses the Government’s overall main objective of increasing educational efforts — with particular emphasis on the education of girls, children in conflict areas and marginalised groups, so that children have the same opportunities to begin but also to complete the school. It's a demanding job, but it's a very important job. But we need to have an overall approach because out-of-school conditions are often crucial, as the hearing bodies also put great emphasis on when we had the hearing. It's not least about the girls. In many places, girls are taken out of school to work or take care of the baby sister while Mother works out to make money. In addition, factors such as child marriage, forced marriage, hindering girls' further education. Let me also add that female teachers can be important in this context, because teachers play a key role. They may be important as role models for girls, also because they understand gender-sensitive issues. Among the factors in school life that lead to girls falling out are sanitary conditions for girls. This is why children-friendly schools are now developing, among other things. are separate toilets for girls and boys, and where there is special work to be done on gender issues, e.g. the fact that the children bring home clean water. It's important to prioritize it because the girls often have to fetch water for the family. The Global Fund shall cooperate, inter alia: with UNICEF on this issue and also on the training of teachers. Otherwise, it's a cross of thought that half of the children who don't go to school live in sub-Saharan Africa, and that poverty, sex, and residence determine whether children are educated. It underlines the need to look at basic education in a broader development perspective. The Labour Party welcomes the fact that Norway will take a global leadership role in education and training assistance and that it will increase sharply. This means, among other things: to promote the old Millennium Goals 2 and 3, but let me also mention that we still have to stand up for and have a global leadership role in the Millennium Goals 4 and 5, which are molestation and the fight against child mortality. It is also important that children grow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e173	Before Christmas we witnessed a cruel terrorist attack against a school in Peshawar, Pakistan, where 139 students and nine employees were killed by the Taliban. We see huge refugee flows in Syria and Iraq and children who are not allowed to go to school because of war and conflict. Many children in Africa do not have access to education because of poverty. In parts of the world, children are deprived of education because of social taboos, child labour or child marriage. 58 million children today are out of school. Children affected by conflict and war, girls and disabled people are particularly vulnerable. Malala Yousafzai and Kailash Satyarthi received the Nobel Peace Prize in Oslo for their work on education, equality and peace. Malala asked us in the City Hall of Oslo: Why is it so easy to distribute weapons, but so difficult to distribute books? Why is it so easy to make tanks, but so hard to build schools? Education builds democracy and is a fundamental human right. Knowledge is one of the pillars of the evolution of both the individual and society, and as Nelson Mandela said: «Education is the most powerful exponent you can use to change the world.» And it promotes peace, we can add. I am therefore pleased with the commitment of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs to human rights, education and, in particular, the right of girls to education. Norway is now taking on a global leadership jersey to succeed in ensuring that the largest possible number of people in the world are well educated. The share of education in the aid budget was almost halved under the red-green. The proportion of aid for education has also fallen internationally. Today, it will take 70 years for all children to enter primary school, because neither Norway nor the international community have given priority to education. Therefore, this power ceiling is needed for education. After just one year in government, we've strengthened education by 640 million. kr. In 2015, $2.4 billion. go to education. Government parties pay particular attention to the education of girls. Girls who receive education, get married later, have children later, have more opportunities to get a job and get better health for themselves and their own children. In sub-Saharan Africa, infant mortality is estimated to have been reduced by up to 40 pst. if the mothers had been in high school. Education is the key to informed choices later in life and affects relationships such as child marriage, sexual mutilation, child mortality and general health in the population. Focusing on education in crisis and conflict situations is not least an investment in stability, democracy and development. With additional funds allocated to this, the government’s aim is to contribute to the access of one million more children living in crisis and conflict situations to quality education by 2017. And the very important thing: people with disabilities are the most marginalized in education, and this group should be given priority. The three main objectives of the Norwegian training effort have just been referred to by the case-rapporteur. Access to primary education will be the main objective of this initiative, but increasingly we also need to look at quality and overall. We must contribute to good, relevant and inclusive learning. In fact, hundreds of millions of children can neither read nor write, even though they have completed primary school. Today's youth coal is the largest in history on a global scale. Here, there is talent, drive and ideas that society needs and needs to put into practice. Both we donors and the people of developing countries expect to see developments that promote good governance and respect for human rights, a development that combats corruption, establish a good investment climate and ensure tax revenue for common well-being. Norwegian aid should not replace their own efforts or compensate for bad policies. Education support should go to countries in need of support, showing political will to give priority to education itself, and to multilateral organisations which can show good results and priorities, and which work in line with the priorities we believe are also important. For example, we can point to the Global Partnership for Education, UNICEF and other non-governmental organisations that are betting on education. Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good work and the Committee for good cooperation in the work on this important initiative for the government, which we are all behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e204	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his thorough progress and for bringing together the Committee on what may be one of the most important things that can happen in the context of long-term positive development and assistance policies. There is no doubt that the message and setting on the table today are very ambitious. It's an ambitious announcement and ambitious, long-term goals. It's also about patience, but here it's important that you get up-to-date with what's going on, so that you can change, strengthen and re-prioritize. Short-term objectives here are also important. In the Storting, everyone is concerned that everyone should have the best possible living conditions. There are still, unfortunately, major differences between the richest and poorest countries in the world. Differences will always be, but we should maybe give priority to helping those who need it the most, so that we can get a positive development and growth. There is no doubt that the main element of development and positive growth is education. Human needs for knowledge and education are fundamental and therefore must be stimulated at all times. A nation with a non-educated population is easier to lead in the wrong direction. Dictatorship and religious extremism get easier footholds in people without their own opinions, without their own skills and without knowledge to stand up to those who guide and lead in the wrong direction. Democracy development and growth are based on knowledge and respect. That is why this Communication is important and that is why this must be done through a targeted development policy. 57 million children – that's a huge number. That is why the Progress Party is very pleased that today's government is now showing the will and ability to invest in the field of education in the area of aid policy. We see a sharp increase and a broad bet. Unfortunately, we have recently experienced a down-priority of education in the Norwegian development work. The proportion of Norwegian aid that has gone to education fell from 13.3 p.m. in 2005 to 7.2 pst. in 2013. Therefore, it is now important that the government reverse this trend, and we should all be satisfied with that. After eight years of non-growth in Norwegian education aid, this government will double it during the ageing period. Norway shall take an international lead, a leading role in the fight for all children to receive education, skilled education and a safe school environment. Once again, I have to repeat: these are ambitious goals, but important goals. The main objectives are to give all children the same opportunities to begin school and to complete school, to teach all children and young people basic skills and to equip them for the future. As far as possible, skills to ensure transition to the labour market improve the conditions for economic growth and sustainable development in a broad sense. The world is facing enormous crises and conflicts. Never before have there been so many people on the run. It is therefore important to remember that children who suffer from these conditions also need training. It is important to remember that all children who suffer from these conditions are the weakest, suffering. It's children, and it's disabled – and unfortunately, the majority are girls. That being said, the focus on children, girls, and on disabled people is correct and important, but, in order to have a leadership role, one must have a lot of focus on the potential synergies of increased interaction between the U.D., Norad, Norwegian educational institutions and commercial actors. In many cases, the challenge of structural unemployment is that industrial and business needs do not match the skills of the population. The progress party is very pleased with the setting that exists, and we hope that it will produce good results in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e225	I'll start with some words John F. Kennedy said to the American Congress in 1961. He said that our progress as a nation cannot go any faster than our progress in education. These words were true then, and they are equally true today. The Stoltenberg II government proposed in its last budget a significant strengthening of education assistance and announced a further 3 billion. kr during the landfill period. The Education for Development message follows the government and increases support for educational assistance. The central party is pleased that there is a cross-political consensus that Norway should have a leadership role in education aid. There's a saying that you're training a girl, you're training a whole village. The centre party believes that strengthening the rights of girls to education is one of the most important Norwegian assistance can help. Enhancing education for women has many ringing effects on society. Women who have had the chance to get some schoolwork, marry later, and they get married more often of their free will. It provides fewer teenage pregnancies and a sustainable population development. For example, in Mali, women with advanced schooling have an average of three children, while those who have not been admitted to school have an average of seven children. The centre party believes the next global education goals must be addressed with regard to inequality and be in line with what was Norway's position until the government change. We suspect that the government party will not support a note confirming this goal. It's a fact that the societies that have greater equality are better societies to live in, not only for the poor, but also for the people of the whole. School performance is also better in better distributed countries. Few kids are able to learn well without the basic needs being met. A safe supply of food and water is essential. About one in three people in sub-Saharan Africa are today defined as undernourished. With increasing population density, existing food production is being shared by more and more people. There's a hurry to start a development where productivity increases based on a resilient management of the earth. We in the Centre Party will stress that Norway must invest more heavily in agricultural aid in the years to come, including in the field of education aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e240	I would also like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for a very good job, mainly because there is now a great deal of agreement on this in the Chamber, when, after all, this was one of the major issues of discussion in the previous period – the decline in the share of education. I am very glad that this is one of the first big messages in the foreign field that the new government is presenting, and that it is making a change in the pace of prioritising education. Obviously it's hard to learn if you haven't eaten, it's hard to learn if you're not healthy. Everything around a child and the security around a child's growth is of course important. We need a broad approach to these issues. It was one that once said that if the only tool you have is a hammer, every problem appears like a nail. I have to say that there are very few challenges in society that education does not work on. It helps both for better health and for better nutrition, it helps for later marriages, it helps the fight against extreme and totalitarian attitudes, it empowers man and makes it actively involved in raising itself out of poverty. This was the main priority in poor Norway 150 years ago. When this room was to decide how Norway would get out of poverty, it was chosen to give priority to education. It was then decided to give priority to education and a broad spectrum of approaches to knowledge that contributed to empowering the Norwegian people to rise out of their poverty. I don't think we always understand how radical it was at the time, what was adopted in this room -- that it was decided that kids who really, from the parents' point of view, should contribute to working and bringing food to the table, were put on a common school bench, poor and rich, to learn music and science. It is clear that there was a rather radical thought at that time, but it was involved and made the most important effort to lift Norway out of poverty. The lessons we have in Norway about bringing Norway out of poverty that way, we should be able to bring it into the world. It's not like smart people don't think totalitarian thoughts, it's not like educated people don't think totalitarian thoughts. The difference is that totalitarian thoughts get counterpowers in a educated population. Totalitarian thoughts make people stand up to them, because they have been empowered to take control of their own lives. What we are adopting here today is quite a conflict. What we are adopting here today is for some very provocative thoughts – that young girls should go to school, and that the people should be empowered to give knowledge. But for me, it's important that we raise those very values, are willing to fight for them and are willing to spend money on them around the world to raise the authority of the individual, which is what knowledge really is about. That the government has decided that one also wants to have an international leadership role to promise this, we in the Left are very much in agreement and are very important. We're also going to look after the government in that area, because not only do we need parties and bigots, but we need education, and especially education among girls, as important objectives of our aid policy, in all international arenas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e257	A child with a school bag is hope. I think that almost everywhere you go in the world, it gives hope to see a child on the way to school with a purse or a bag, it gives you a sense that - yes - here it goes forward, and it's because it's well documented that education is a completely necessary commitment to progress ashore in many different ways. It is the intention for children to start asking questions, looking for good solutions, looking around the world for the improvement of their own societies, that they become more critical, that they learn that there are better ways to do things and other values that may be more important elsewhere, but it is also the provision that a person learns the practical skills needed to build things up. For this reason, there is also so much agreement that investing in education will be a very important project for Norway in development policy over the years that comes, alongside some other important and necessary aspects of good development policies that need to develop a country, such as health, natural resources, the environment, distribution, equality, to name a few. In addition to education having the effect that it can develop a country, education in development policy clearly also has the effect of bringing together a total — mainly — consensus in the same way. So I want to, at least in large terms, join in with what the previous speakers here have said, but I thought I would use my post for some points that others have less come up with. The first is that there are two important aspects of education and one is a professional. Vocational training is well served in a good communication, but I have seen for myself that vocational training is often a priority in education systems, and that there are far too few developments in many educational systems in the south. So building a system of good vocational training is an essential part of building the country. Many people lack elementary competence in building their own countries physically, and I think it is a strength that this has emerged further. What I may think, on the other hand, is the one weakness of a good message, is that a lack of focus on kindergartens and preschools, because early efforts are just as important in poorer countries in the south as they are in the rich country of Norway. It is therefore, in my view, necessary that we place greater emphasis on this also in education in development policy in the years to come. The third is that education is also important in that it is in securing future incomes to the country, and a country where everyone has access to education can ensure a smoother distribution. But even distribution and a well-functioning welfare system must also be used to finance education systems. That is why what we are doing to prevent capital flow, to ensure a well-functioning tax system, is an important effort to finance the education policy – which, after all, must be driven by income other than that of Norwegian and other development aid. So to the last, and there's something I want to problematize, or at least reflect a little bit over, and it's, as it says in the setting, that a desire ‘to establish results-based funding as a principle in training programmes and projects, where appropriate’; In some areas, I am a clear supporter of performance-based funding in development policy, for example. when it comes to rainforest, with which I have worked a lot. But because I have worked a lot in this area, I have also been given insight into the very significant challenges associated with results-based funding. And even when it's related to something relatively static like forest, it's not the way to measure it just unproblematic, for example. because there is a man who lives by him, who lives there, etc. When one introduces people, it becomes, I think, more complicated to operate with results-based funding. I was in Madagascar with Erik Solheim a few years ago, when he was Minister of Development and I was Minister of Knowledge. On the surface, they could point to amazing figures in their education system, including: high participation and implementation, but when a person went behind numbers, it turned out that very many people didn't even learn the completely elementary things that they were supposed to learn in theory. So if we're going to try this out, in my opinion, we have to do it with caution, and we should make sure that we measure what we actually want to measure -- not superficial numbers -- and we have to think through the effects we have by driving resource use against what we actually measure. Thanks to the case spokesperson, and thanks to the government for submitting a good message.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e284	First, I would like to thank the Committee for a good and thorough attitude, and thank the rapporteur for a very good job and a very good contribution with visions for the educational effort in the future. A lot of things are at stake. If there is one global investment that can, above all, help to eradicate extreme poverty in the world, there is a commitment to education. If there is one effort to promote the health of girls and the right to decide about their own future, education will be an important part. Is there one investment necessary to create the 600 million new jobs that the ILO estimates we need to move forward towards 2020, it is investment in education. And in the light of the events in Paris, let me add: if there is anything that can promote tolerance and community, counteract discrimination and extremism, it is education. Still, we live in a world where 58 million children are still out of high school, with over 60 million young people out of high school, and 185 million students out of fourth grade without being able to read and write. The world cannot afford this. A global promise is needed to achieve the right to education, a commitment to quality and learning outcomes is needed to build knowledge that all countries and all people need in a changing and interwoven world. We're going to reverse the negative trend of the last few years with reduced education aid. We will contribute to the mobilisation of greater resources nationally in developing countries. We are in the process of taking an international leadership for global education. This summer, we will invite you to a major global education conference in Norway as a follow-up to the UNESCO conference in South Korea, not least to focus on the importance of crystal-clear targets in the new sustainability indicators to be adopted by the UN General Assembly in September. Since accession in 2013, the government has increased aid for training by a total of 640 million. kr, a good step on the way to our goal of double by 2017. UN estimates show that an increase in the average level of education by one year generates an increase in a country’s income per capita by 26 pst. over a period of 45 years. In 1960, the steady South Korean was poorer than the average in Kenya. In 2005, the South Korean was about 25 times richer. Education doesn't explain everything, but a lot. Therefore, it is not accidental that the great education conference of UNESCO should be added to South Korea in the spring. We're not getting closer to the UN's Millennium Goals if the results are lacking in education. Nor will we be able to realise the development agenda after 2015 if education is not given priority. Norway has to go ahead to reduce the high number of children, in particular girls and persons with disabilities, who are kept out of school. We will support partnerships and innovation that increase the quality of education for children and young people. The position of the Prime Minister in the UN Secretary-General's proponent group for the Millennium Goals, as one of the leaders, gives extra weight to this effort. In this assistance, we will step up support for the Global Partnership for Education and other multilateral partners that can contribute to strengthening the effectiveness of Norwegian support. And we're going to concentrate efforts in focus countries to get results that can escalate. For example, we should match the government's commitment to education in Malawi. The measures should be targeted specifically at girls – only 35 pst. by the girls in Malawi reach eighth grade. Even if we can change the negative development? Even if this partnership can lead to more girls in poor Malawi having access to education and can therefore get out of poverty, get into a good circle, get married later, have fewer children and have higher quality of life? In Ethiopia, we will strengthen the education sector, a country with the UN's Millennium Goals within reach after increasing the number of children in primary school. Much needs to be done in the future in the field of education. The attitude of Stortinget gives the government the marshalls that we need to deliver on this ambitious policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e307	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e311	The examples of the Minister of Foreign Affairs from South Korea and Kenya are very interesting and are a challenge and a crossroads in development policy. The working party joins this big message, which we think is very good, as well as the overall objectives outlined. Of course, this applies to education for girls and marginalised groups. This applies not least to the transition from education to work. My questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs are: How will the government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs follow up this message? How will the Foreign Minister put into practice the good objectives that stand here, not only with increased funds, but perhaps primarily with framework conditions that allow children to pass through primary school, for example. in Ethiopia – which was one of the countries mentioned by the minister – and with the necessary infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e320	Thank you for inspiring words, and thank you for a very good and central question. On the basis of this communication, we in the Ministry will develop an action plan for the training initiative in the future. What we've seen is that the device is initially absolutely crucial for success. We need to be able to measure our efforts, measure our influence, and we need to focus on different strategic areas, some of the multilateral – as I mentioned – through, among other things. Global Partnership for Education. But we must also be able to enter into partnerships with specific countries, for example. Malawi and Ethiopia, where they increase their resource mobilisation, and where we follow. We now have our own team working strategically on this educational initiative, and we are developing different points and clear action plans to be able to allocate these funds in an optimal way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e329	On page 11 of the referral, the Committee refers to professional subjects. It says that: «professionals have a weak position in the education system in many of the poorest developing countries, while the employment opportunities in question are largely found in agriculture and related industries as well as in practical professions requiring craft skills in small and medium-sized enterprises locally». It goes on to say: ‘The Committee considers this imbalance to be a structural obstacle to relevant training that strengthens employment and value creation.’ My challenge to the Minister is: We are waiting for a big message on industrial development. My question is then: How is the setting today linked to the development and completion of a growth report on industrial development? I should also like to have attached it to a big message about human rights, MR. How do you connect these messages? They are clearly in the same direction in terms of democratic development and, in particular, in terms of education.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e344	Education is an important factor in getting into good circles in developing countries both in terms of democracy and governance. In order for the private sector to grow and to create the necessary jobs, it is dependent on having workers with the right skills. The role of Sandberg’s representative is also important, namely to have a partnership with the business community in developing countries where they can contribute with vocational training and, in particular, with practical workplaces and apprenticeships. We have started a project with the Norwegian NHO on this and will come back to this in the big news about the private sector, which we will present. What we do in education needs to be linked to the effort we have in the private sector in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e351	As I said in my post, the government here has provided an offensive and good basis for us to close down with the education aid. But as the minister was also involved in his post, it's not just deciding what Norway is doing here, that's what we can get a total worth to actually do. Here I understand that work is now being done on September and the goals we hope will then be set – which will be laid then – in the UN. So my question is what Norway does. I understand that, among other things, would like an own conference. We also know that Gordon Brown is deliberately working on this and has been assigned by the United Nations to work on it, to prioritize it. My challenge is to say something more about what strategy Norway is proposing to meet in September in New York to be a success.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e356	We work closely with the Secretary-General's special broadcast on education, Gordon Brown, on the conference we're going to have in Oslo in July. The aim of that conference is to give the most attention around, and to get everyone to put all the cloths in when they are involved, the thousand-year targets now fully in the interview. There are still 58 million children who do not have access to primary school, and it should have been solved by 2015. That goal is not achieved, but we can make an extra effort. Then we use the conference to focus on resource mobilisation in developing countries related to education. It's important. There shall be a large conference on resource mobilisation and funding in Addis Ababa at the end of July, as early as the general meeting. During the general meeting, I hope that we will adopt ambitious targets for all children to be entitled to education – not only primary school, but also full primary school – by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e363	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good and Prospective contribution, which alerts an offensive to putting education on the agenda. Several speakers today have argued that the share of education should increase. I think that's the right priority. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: In terms of health and environmental assistance, how will their share of the total aid budget develop when the share of education is to be increased?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e370	Prime Minister – no, President. I don't know if it was a "Freudian slip." I can't give any exact numbers to that question. What I can confirm is that we will continue to increase our health efforts, as we did in the budget for the current year. We've added up to an increase of 200 million. kr. It is important — health and education go hand in hand — and we have committed to increasing climate funding by 400 million. kr, so that further action is also taken on climate and the environment. What is the government's main efforts in the future in development policy are health, education, vulnerable countries – which is incredibly important – it is climate, energy and environment, and then it is private sector and mobilization. All these areas will be increased, but the percentage of the total aid budget is difficult to say about now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e379	Thank you very much for a very good answer. I have to make an additional question, because there are more people in this room said that the red-green government did not do enough when it came to investing in education. It is largely due to the high priority given to vaccines, mother-child-health and the environment. Will the Foreign Minister, like his party traps and other representatives of the government parties here in this Chamber express equally clear criticism of the previous government as regards the lack of education and too much on environment and health?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e384	There has been a trend in the last few years globally that there has been a decline in investment in education. It's important to turn around. Education is a prerequisite for development. The representative must be sure that in the years to come we will continue to increase health, climate finance, the private sector, vulnerable countries and not least education. I believe that Norway too could have done more on education in recent years. To go from a share of education of 13 pst. to 7 pst. Of the overall aid budget, I think it was a decrease which was, also relatively, very strong, and which could be interpreted as a signal that this was a lower priority. It had to be possible to focus on climate and health without such development in the field of education.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e389	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e395	Knowledge is the cornerstone of development both for the individual and for society. Education is a global common good. We find the new knowledge that brings the world forward. Education also builds democracy and human rights. It has been worrying to see the decline in the relative share of education from 2013 until now. It is therefore gratifying to note that there is such a broad consensus when governments and cooperation parties double the investment in education and training in aid. The government will work widely – with donor countries, beneficiary countries, humanitarian organisations and the business community. Increased investment in aid training is closely linked to the UN’s Millennium Goals and at the same time contributes to the achievement of all the other Millennium Goals. Through Norway’s global leadership with the Prime Minister who leads the driving group, it is an important ambition for Norway to ensure that education continues to have a central place in the Post-2015 development agenda. We have to think even more strategically, because it's a 25-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. dollars to reach the goal that all children And as others have said, at today's speed it will take 70 years. We need to think globally and look more broadly at the impact of investment and value creation in order to be able to finance the educational needs of the coming years. And how will Norway work more strategically? Yes, we have to be in the front global, as we are in, for example. forest and climate action, and try to mobilise widely through the political contact network we have, and where we have top expertise. Efforts shall be increased where the needs are greatest. In cooperation with the World Bank, a performance-based funding system is being developed based on partnerships that can mobilise funds from other sources, a kind of seeding. Innovative methods and new technologies will be prioritised. For although the figures vary widely, the OECD report Development Co-operation Report showed that public aid on average amounts to only 2 pst. the financing of developing countries, while 98 pst. are foreign investment, private transfers, tax receipts, etc. The active involvement of industry is therefore becoming increasingly important in achieving sustainable economic growth, and the government will strengthen efforts to promote Norwegian business interests abroad. The training field is complex and complex. There are no simple solutions. Assistance only works for a while, and countries themselves have to take responsibility – yes, they have the primary responsibility. This is why it is also relevant to look at a post-profit financing. At the same time, it is important to stress that although the share of aid for education is now doubled, global health remains a very important area of activity for Norway, and, as we know, the two areas are also closely linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e412	Thank you for a very good big message, for a good discussion and for the rapporteur's work on this matter. In recent years, Norway has been at the forefront of the fight to vaccinate all the world’s children, mother-child health and a major environmental assistance effort. Before the last government left, we agreed that the next major task that could be combined with managing responsibility in health and the environment was education. We wanted a stronger commitment to it, and I believe that this big message provides a basis for that work. What I do not understand, however, is this discussion with an implicit criticism of the previous government that it was too little for education then. If you thought it was too little for education, you should also be tough enough to say that there might be too much for vaccines or too much for mother-child-health. I think we have to stick together on the important issues, on the right priorities. That's enough for everyone. It is not the case that a more heroic effort was made when the budget for 2014 was adopted and the UN Food Fund cut for more education. It was not such that it gave a more moral high-level wager from the state of Norway. I think we have to stick together about what's most important. We were together about mother-child-health and about vaccines. Now the next big job is education, and I think it is important that this government provides the basis for that. It is important in this priority that we give priority to girls, conflict areas, disabled people and the quality of teachers. The representative, Trine Skei Grande, was interested in something very important – how this message really is a repetition of what we did to lift Norway as a nation. We built up education, but we also had extensive legal work against child labour. In many of these countries where children do not go to school, there is a school, but there is no real enforcement. This is a political question. We've reduced the number of child workers in the world by quite a few since 2000, but when the Peace Prize winner Kailash Satyarthi was in Norway, he just focused on how we can politically continue to work in the fight against child labour and to make children go to school. It is that we can contribute to the labelling of goods that are not produced by children, international agreements or trade agreements in which we are going in the rush to have a ban on child labour. Education is important, and then we must also carry out the political work we did in Norway in the fight against child labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e427	To this day I sit as a member of the Church, Education and Research Committee here on the Stortinget, and when I got into this case, I realized that we might have a little less demanding tasks in our committee than what you see on a global scale, in terms of education. But the core is still the same, given the level of ambition, the goals we have for our six-year-olds as they enter the schoolyard: we cannot have lower goals and ambitions for the world's six-year-olds who do not get their education. It has been said very wisely in this debate, not least that education is a very important defence against poverty. Much goes in the right direction, but it goes too slowly, and education is what can get the speed up. But so important is that education gives a unique freedom and independence. A good education is impossible to take from you, and a good education is very easy to carry with you wherever in the world you travel. This freedom is just what is also under attack right now, from organizations like Boko Haram, the Taliban and ISIL. They have targeted attacks on schools where girls get education, precisely because it's about giving them an independence they despise. The fight against these groups cannot only be carried out by weapons and bombers. This independence is precisely the reason why more women can stand up to oppression, and therefore the most important weapon may not be a rifle, but to ensure that more women are trained to be independent. One of the things that surprised me, or was an important reminder, when I sat down with this case, was that this isn't just about giving money to education and school construction. Some people have to train all these kids. The fact that we lack 5.2 million teachers worldwide – more than the entire population of Norway – shows what challenges we face. The representative Huitfeldt, who is also the committee leader, was a little indignant that someone criticized the previous government for perhaps not giving high enough priority to education. But I have to say that when you see the long-term need you have for more people who can teach, to keep the pressure up, it's so bad that the frequency of training has fallen. That is why I am also very proud of the efforts that Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende is now proposing, and which we in the European Parliament are going to adopt today, which means a change of pace and a real boost for education in the aid policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e440	Such a unanimous attitude, such a good attitude on the part of the Committee, and yet there will be a fight, or at least a debate. It may be surprising in one way, but at the same time this room was full of different debates on this point in the previous period. I was allowed to keep a lot of posts, where I challenged the government that now we have to increase the share of assistance – but not just the share, also the number of dollars. Because if you look from 2005 to 2013, there was a real drop in dollars – the amount of money was the same, but the value is much smaller. Ergo, it was a fall. And it's been our main point, that we also wanted an increase in dollars, as well as share. That's not why I wanted to speak, but once the debate has become that way, I would remind you that it was one of the main points. Thus, there is also no real debate that there is a priority between health and education, because there was a real decline in crowns in education. But it's important to underline three important points. Firstly, there is a need for increased access to education; everyone should actually have the opportunity. You raise girls, you raise very poor and vulnerable children, you raise them with disabilities – the proportion has also fallen, and you want to increase the proportion, what I think is good for the committee to raise. They are promoted with minority backgrounds and indigenous peoples as important groups – and those in crisis and conflict. But it's also important to choose quality so clearly, because as many people have been involved, it's vital that you not only sign into school, but that you also get out of school with good skills. It is extremely important that the Committee points out that assistance for teacher training should be increased, that priority should be given to ensuring good teachers. So I also think that digital aids are one of the points that might help to ensure even better quality. The fact that everyone can access e.g. videos with maybe the best lectures, even if you're far out in the slum in Malawi, it can contribute to even better learning outcomes. The point concerning more labour-related education, where the representative Solhjell had a good report, I think is also important – ensuring that you receive vocational education, relevant education and training where you know that very many of the poorest are working in agriculture or in the practical professions. Then there is also another point that I want to pay tribute to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the government's escalating, and with the support of the Stortinget, namely job creation. For one thing, we need to ensure education, but we also need to make sure that the jobs are there. And the strategy that the government has promised, with job creation, is incredibly important. One final point is that once we have actually built the aid into dollars, my fear is also that the competence in the U.D., but also in the embassies, has fallen somewhat in terms of education, because it has not been as high as priority. That's why there's an important point that I think the Foreign Minister has to take on board, that we're building up that competence when we're going to lead the world on education.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e455	To the representative, I must first say that if you thought this was a problem, there may be a lot of trouble and trouble in this room in the years to come. I draw myself to the debate on finance and economics in this context. The first thing I think is important is that if we look at the big picture of what is important, it shows that it has been too little possible in the world over the last few years to pick up the kind of economic resources that have been needed to strengthen education systems in poor countries. It's taken from aid agencies, but the big promise can't come from there. It must come from other sources. Let me just give you an example. If all countries that are beneficiaries were able to improve their tax intake by 1 p.m., the tax system was better so that the collection actually worked – 1 p.m. – is equivalent to twice as much of all assistance in the world. There are enormous possibilities in such things as preventing capital flow and improving tax systems. That's why it's an important part of this work. When it comes to the Norwegian education effort, it is not the extra money in itself that is the job we really are doing with this, but that we are making it a strategic main project, where we can perhaps get others to give similar amounts, where we can spend it on the private sector, where we collectively can contribute so much more – that is how we have done it before before in health, equality and the environment, and that is how the Foreign Minister now outlines that they intend to work and think about education. That's what's most important. So to parts and absolute numbers, which are two different things, and which are important to remember. In absolute terms, i.e. in dollars, the aid budget grew very strongly in the previous period – first very strongly up to 1 pst., then a little less strongly, and then it continued at the same rate, at least in the last two budgets after negotiations. Then there are several dollars for a lot of different things, there's been a very strong increase in health and environment, equality and several other things, while the crown amount of education has been equal in nominal dollars. I accept and fully understand the criticism and the position that we should have put more into absolute numbers, and that the percentage went too far down. I understand the arguments behind it and respect it. The most important counter-argument is that we bet on other things. So it's so that no matter how much you increase, it actually becomes that part, dear friends, 100 pst. If part of something goes up very much, it's going to go down on other things. "That's life"! At least I thought it was worth it for some speakers to have it with them in the years to come. So I think it's strange that those who don't want the absolute number to increase, but want it to go down, are very critical to parts. Then it's reasonable that one answers what should be down priorities. At least let's gather at the end here that there's now a broad consensus about a big boost both in absolute numbers and parts before education.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e470	Case No. 1 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e486	Firstly, thank the Council of State for this opportunity to discuss a crucial issue today, namely how we can ensure that we create good societies within the limits of what nature permits. Christmas Eve 47 years ago, American William Anders took a photograph that has remained in the history of the world. Mr. Anders was an astronaut on Apollo 8, the first manned journey to the moon. In a orbit around the moon he experienced for the first time a phenomenon that no one had ever seen before, an upsurge. Above the moon's horizon, a blue planet ascended far away – the planet that is our only home. Mr. Anders' image illustrates what this debate is about: we only have this planet. At a UN summit in September 2015, the world will agree on new sustainability goals. An important part of this summit is funding, which will be clarified in Addis Ababa in July. Then, in Paris in December, the world will agree on a new climate agreement. The Green Party has taken the initiative in this interview because the new sustainability targets, unlike the current UN Millennium Goals, will also have a direct impact on Norwegian domestic policies. That is why this interpellation is originally addressed to the Prime Minister. We think it is nice to have a debate with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but the point is that, unlike the previous Millennium Goals, these objectives are binding both for Norway and for the United States – as much as they are for Myanmar and Burkina Faso. I therefore expect the Minister for Foreign Affairs to also explain how the government will take these objectives back to Norway and how it will ensure that they are met. So the UN's new sustainability targets are to be taken over by the current Millennium Goals. They are scheduled to be met this year. It is a pleasure – as many have pointed out, both in the previous debate and in many other contexts – that many of the Millennium Goals have actually been met. It says something about the importance of the kind of international objectives. Extreme poverty has been greatly reduced, infant mortality has fallen, the number of deaths due to malaria has almost halved since 2000, etc. But at the same time, as we know, global greenhouse gas emissions have increased by 50 pst. since 1990. World animal populations have been halved in the last 40 years. The world — to say it in good Norwegian — is on the verge of Millennium Goal 7, ensuring environmental sustainable development, and in many rich countries unemployment is high. Both parts are an indisputable result of today's economic growth model, which both creates environmental problems and throws people into misery when the financial bubbles crack again and again. So this is the starting point for bringing the world together on new sustainability goals. A UN working group has proposed 17 new objectives, which most observers expect will be the targets that will be adopted in September. Unlike the Millennium Goals, which applied only to developing countries, this applies to all countries. So it's not just a job for U.D. and Norad, it's a job for the whole government and all the departments. Of course, many of the 17 objectives are where Norway already makes it excellent: there is little absolute poverty in Norway; there is nothing very hungry to talk about; income inequalities, which are sustainability targets 10, are still relatively small in this country. However, other sustainability goals will make great demands on Norwegian policy. Sustainability objectives 15, protecting and preserving ecosystems, including forest protection, and halting biodiversity loss, are about taking care of the very life base in Norway, and it is about taking care of the resource base of a future sustainable Norwegian working life. In order to do this, Norway must step up massively the protection of the nature that we have committed ourselves to not destroying anything more. Sustainability objectives 12, ensuring sustainable consumption and good production systems, will be a special challenge for a country like Norway, where the average Northman has such a high consumption that if everyone had our consumption, we would need three Earths. For Norway, this poses a major challenge for an oil and loan-funded consumption party, not least the current government, which includes an increase in the use of oil money. Sustainability Objective 3, ensuring healthy life and promoting quality of life for all, means that we need to connect our society in a way where quality of life is the goal, rather than compulsive growth in consumption. Sustainability objective 13, immediate action to combat climate change, is a significant challenge to commit to an international country such as Norway, where today we have one emission per capita of 12 tonnes. We know that our emissions, if we're going to have a fairly fair distribution here in the world, have to go down to 1.2 million tonnes, in a situation where Norway is the third largest emissions per head in Europe, and so don't cut emissions. It is no coincidence that the areas where Norway has the best target, such as health, school, poverty reduction, etc., are the same areas where we have had a systematic and targeted policy for many years. The assumption that Norway will succeed where we are doing it badly today — sustainable consumption, climate, biodiversity protection, etc. – is therefore that we also have clear, committed objectives and plans, with good indicators and good reporting for target achievement. It was therefore an alarmingly poor start to Norway’s work on new sustainable goals when the government removed the entire sustainability chapter and sustainability indicators from the 2015 national budget. The explanation from the Minister of Finance that this was just an editorial change was not very convincing. At the same time, the previous, red-green, government has little to boast about turning sustainability indicators into real policy tools. The indicators were contained in a separate chapter, but they were not used to a large extent as real governance tools for policy priorities in the State budget. That's why the government now has an opportunity to show how this really can and should be done. So the sustainability goals that we're going to commit to in 2015 are not some of the very many considerations that can be set aside when other interests require it. The sustainability objectives to be committed by Norway must be governed by other policies. That is why, as the Green Party and the Labour Party have proposed, the sustainability objectives must, of course, be returned to the national budget, but not just as a statistical chapter – they must be used as governance tools for other policies. The famous image of the earth’s rise, taken in 1968 — in the middle of the golden age of environmental protection — gave rise to a very important policy. In 1972 a unanimous increase was behind the establishment of the Ministry of the Environment. Nine years later, in 1981, the Pollution Act was introduced, and later the Council of State introduced a resource accounting in parallel with the State budget. This gave results. Pollution emissions were regulated very strongly, and no one at the time thought that industry and the state would be able to buy free of emissions cuts in Norway by doing so cheaply abroad. Now there are the remaining problems that need to be solved: loss of nature and dangerous climate change. The perspective for solving them is not that there are difficulties with a development that continues as today, the perspective is the opposite. These are prerequisites for Norwegian quality of life tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. This is the assurance that we will actually maintain a welfare society and a calm, democratic society for a long time in Norway. That is why I will end by wishing the Council of State good luck with a hectic year of negotiation and at the same time reminding you that the real work begins when the objectives are adopted. They shall then be introduced into Norway. The Green Party therefore hopes that the government will come back to the Stortinget in the new year with a message on how to achieve the new sustainability goals in Norway, so that we will have a broad debate and a good anchor in the Stortinget on how to create a Norwegian organically balanced society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e524	First, I would like to thank the representative Hansson for raising this important interpellation and for the opportunity to inform the Storting about the important work around the new sustainability goals. The last few weeks have reminded us again of the importance of universal values and international cohesion. I think there is a broad consensus that the Millennium Goals have been of great importance in terms of poverty reduction, health, moderation and other important issues on the development agenda in the last 15 years. We still have a way to go, but we have seen that extreme poverty has been halved since 1990. 40 pst. lived in extreme poverty in 1990, today it is 20 pst. On top of that, there have been two billion people. I hope this does not lead to a new percentage debate and a share debate, but, as you can see, it is particularly strong when extreme poverty has been reduced from 40 p.m. until 20 p.m., and it has come to two billion people on top. There are more people than it actually lived on the Earth in 1900. The proportion of people living in slum areas or without access to clean water is also halved. We've seen solid results in the fight against HIV, AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, to name a few. Norway is a leading country in the pursuit of the Millennium Goals, just as we want an offensive negotiating strategy to achieve ambitious sustainability goals in the future. Work on sustainability targets is, in fact, a historic opportunity. The Millennium Goals were important, but sustainability targets are becoming universal, and they also cover the important principles that growth should take place on environmental premises, and not least that economic growth should be decoupled from growth in greenhouse gas emissions and from the destruction of biodiversity. That is why we want sustainability targets to go beyond the Millennium Goals. Our overall objective is to eradicate extreme poverty through sustainable development by 2030. This is ambitious, but possible. The new objectives will mobilise to increase efforts and give direction to global development and sustainability policies up to 2030, as the Millennium Development Goals have done since 2000. We must build on the consensus of the Rio Conference that the new objectives will help to see the environment, social development and economic development in the context – the concept of sustainability in its fullest sense. Next week, the UN General Assembly will start its final stage on the road to new sustainability goals. The objectives shall be adopted at a UN summit in September. An intergovernmental working group in the United Nations, in which Norway took an active part, has proposed 17 sustainability goals. This proposal will form the main basis for the negotiations on the new objectives. The Government is concerned that the objectives need to be concrete and communicable, transparent and measurable in order to mobilise resources and partnerships, including with the private sector and civil society. We have seen how good results we have achieved through global partnerships and innovative solutions, especially in health, since 2000. Norwegian efforts to reduce maternal and child mortality have been significant. Together with other countries and private partners, we have contributed to the fact that the number of women who die in childbirth has almost halved since 1990. But a lot remains. Globally, a billion people live in extreme poverty. Now we have to escalate the stakes on the wide front. This applies in particular to education. 58 million children are not allowed to attend school, and many children are taught so poorly that they do not learn what they should learn. We're going to work for educational goals to be ambitious. Education and health are necessary to eradicate poverty, but alone it is not enough. We need to stimulate inclusive economic growth and job creation without increasing emissions or inequality. We must recognise that climate change can undermine people's livelihoods and work for sustainable social and economic development. Economic growth must be decoupled from greenhouse gas emissions, as already mentioned. From the Norwegian side, we will work for new objectives in climate and environment, sustainable management of natural resources and biodiversity. A good set of governance with legal certainty, freedom of expression and respect for human rights is both a prerequisite and an objective for effective development. We will therefore continue to work towards this in the negotiations. We are pleased that the proposal for sustainability targets includes our priority areas such as energy, climate, food security, water and sanitation – and not least women's equality, reproductive health and rights, for which it has been difficult to reach agreement in the UN. There is still a way to get binding wording on human rights and good governance. The size must be sure that the government will last to achieve the most ambitious objectives in this area as well. Financing will have a major impact on progress in the discussions on new objectives. Norway has a key role as one of two organisers of the conference on financing for development in Ethiopia in July. On the part of the donor countries, we must provide assistance. At the same time, recipient countries shall mobilise national resources. In addition to the financing conference in Ethiopia and the UN Summit in New York, the climate conference in Paris is a very important milestone in 2015. We want an ambitious and legally binding climate agreement. The government is developing Norway’s national contribution to the new climate agreement. This will be presented to the Stortinget in February. Sustainability objectives must be global and universal. They shall apply to all countries, including the interpellant. The new objectives will give political leadership, but not legally binding. Countries shall follow-up according to national circumstances and assumptions. From the Norwegian side, we will continue to play an active and constructive role in cooperation with like-minded countries in the north and south. We will continue the dialogue with civil society that has been so important for the democratic anchoring of the post-2015 process, both nationally and globally. We will support the role of the UN, we will follow up and assist in the new crime work that is needed to develop and identify global indicators. These are indicators to help the new objectives become tangible and measurable – globally and nationally – and to realise the principle that ‘all should be included’. There should be no doubt that Norway will be at the forefront of designing and implementing sustainability goals, both internationally and at home. In several areas, specific target formulations have already been identified, and the government is in the process of clarifying what these will require of action and follow-up at home. Once the sustainability targets have been adopted in the UN, we can further specify these measures. Until September, we will give priority to the process under way in the United Nations. It is important that sustainability targets become as ambitious, concrete and measurable as possible. It is important to get into port with an ambitious funding conference in Addis Ababa at the end of July, which is a prerequisite for developing countries to participate in these ambitious goals. It is follow-up to «Monterrey 1». Norway must be a driver and have a clear and clear voice in these negotiations, until we are in the target.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e573	I find that although Norway has been engaged in these negotiations for a long time, the Foreign Minister was very reluctant to outline what Norway intends to do to ensure the implementation of these objectives here in the country. We'll get back to that – the Minister of Foreign Affairs at least. But one of the things that is particularly topical and that the Foreign Minister was about is the financing issue and the conference that will be held in Addis Ababa. As one of the world’s richest countries, with a huge state pension fund, Norway has great opportunities and a great responsibility – far beyond very many other countries – to contribute financially to sustainable development. It's today that we invest this 6,000 billion. Let's do something. If we don't want to commit ourselves to investing them in sustainable development, well, we don't invest them in sustainable development. This is a debate we need to raise when we repeatedly appoint Norway as a main driver for financing international sustainable development. We're giving 1 pst today. of gross national income in development aid. The Green Party has proposed a similar effort, 1 pst. by GNI, internationally through the UN Green Climate Fund, which is a relatively natural response to the challenge posed by the climate problem and given the role that Norway has in creating climate problems. In a few years, Norway has been given an important definition power in the international financial markets through all our money, and it would have a huge impact on Børge Burnde at the Addis Ababa Summit in July, for example. would announce that the oil fund would not only withdraw its investments from the coal – which I am starting to believe they will – but that, for example, 5 pst. the fund, initially, would be earmarked for sustainable investment in developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e582	The interpellant can be absolutely certain that the government will continue to follow up our ambitions to have a clear leadership role in the design of ambitious sustainability goals. In the run-up to the presentation of the 17 objectives presented by the Secretary-General in the autumn, Norway worked closely into this process, and we were concerned that we would first have an impact on the overall, namely the elimination of all extreme poverty by 2030. This is a follow-up to the target agreed in 2000, namely the halving of the number of people living in extreme poverty. We are going to eliminate all extreme poverty by 2030. A key prerequisite for achieving this is also sustainable development. The whole concept of sustainability, which I was talking about, is about economic development, it's about social development and it's obviously about what's going on in the environment. All of these components have to be reflected in the sustainability objectives that we now agree on. During the spring now we will follow and be ambitious in the negotiations that are going on. We will not help to weaken the objectives that the Secretary-General has now set out. On the contrary, we believe that in some areas they should become more ambitious, for example: in the case of human rights, and not least in the case of human rights. It is also an important prerequisite for developing countries to participate in these sustainability goals that they feel that we will contribute to funding. Developing countries must operate a national resource mobilisation that becomes important at the Addis Ababa conference, i.e. Monterrey 2. We know that the tax base can be expanded, we know that with good governance, corruption will disappear less, but we need to be a real partner so that many developing countries can provide access to energy, and it should be sustainable. We know that many developing countries are struggling very much with biodiversity, but they can't reverse the negative trend in biodiversity loss, stop all biodiversity loss, without a real partnership. Norway must also be there, and we must be ambitious. Once these objectives have been adopted by the UN General Assembly, it is clear that when they are universal, we must also follow them up in Norway, just as we have done with the decisions of the Johannesburg Summit in 2002 and the Rio Conference. This is about stopping e.g. The loss of biodiversity had already been adopted in 2002 and thus required national action plans from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e591	I would first like to thank the Foreign Minister for two good answers and then say that I agree with the interpellant in his approach, namely that 2015 will be a crucial year for the future of the earth. Then it is good that we have just, in December, adopted a historically high aid budget on our hand. Then I record that the interpellant has a significant degree of impatience, and that's good, but I think it's more important that we get the targets first, before we decide afterwards how best to implement them. Since 2000, the Millennium Development Goals have been governing global development efforts. They shall be replaced by the new sustainability targets up to 2030. When the world reaches an agreement on the new global sustainability goals of the harvest, it represents the need to mobilise resources for development purposes of a size that the world has not seen before. As the UNDP says, these must come from both public and private donors, because the funding here will be very demanding. Sustainability goals are now called because we cannot achieve the eradication of all extreme poverty without including ambitious objectives within climate, renewable energy, food production, equality, human rights and good governance. The world is in a situation where by 2050 we will reach a global population of maybe ten billion people. Within this framework, we need to set clear targets for – as the Foreign Minister said – decoupling growth from growth in greenhouse gas emissions, increasing pollution and loss of biodiversity. It is challenging, and when new sustainability targets are set, we need to set up Norwegian development policies to support them. The Foreign Minister is doing a good job. The objective of the existing Millennium Goals to halve extreme poverty by 2015 is almost already achieved. Both the total number of people living in extreme poverty and the proportion of poor people in all regions, including sub-Saharan Africa. There are 700 million fewer poor people today than in 1990. The same applies, for example: the objectives of improving living conditions in slum areas and increasing access to clean water. We also see results, for example. in the fight against malaria and tuberculosis. Between 2000 and 2012, 3,3 million deaths due to malaria are prevented, 90 pst. Of the saved lives, children under the age of five are south of the Sahara. About 22 million deaths due to tuberculosis are prevented. If the trend continues, we also reach this Millennium Goal. Never before have we seen such a rapid reduction in infant mortality. Our Prime Minister is the co-chairman of the United Nations Secretary-General's propelling group for the Millennium Goals. Norway thus contributes to mobilising international efforts during the thousand-year target period. Global growth in all thousand-year-olds is an important foundation for the success of the 2016 new sustainability targets. But even though much has been achieved, a billion people still live in extreme poverty. We cannot create new goals for development and sustainability without the inclusion and special focus of marginalised groups. Disability is the group that has often been left behind and has not been involved in developments that have taken place in several places. As regards education, work, social inclusion and access to health services, disabled persons remain the most disadvantaged social group. It must now be taken care of. I say as you say, 'leave nobody behinderd'. As our Prime Minister has said, less than 2 pst goes. of the global humanitarian aid for education today. We have to do everything in our power to ensure that generations of children and young people growing up as innocent victims of conflict get their right to education fulfilled. We know that war and conflict are the biggest obstacle to development. Unfortunately, since more children are also injured in conflict and disaster-affected areas, the proportion of children with disabilities is also higher in these areas than elsewhere. It must be taken care of – «leave nobody behinderd». Norway is actively working to secure global and universal sustainability goals after 2015, which are concrete, measurable and communicable, to which the Minister of Foreign Affairs has also referred. I am pleased that our government believes that the main goal is to eradicate all extreme poverty by 2030. In order to achieve this, the world needs to agree on concrete goals and mobilise sufficient will and resources even after 2015. We need to build on the Millennium Goals and create new sustainability goals that include the environmental, social and economic aspects of sustainable development, as agreed in Rio+20.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e614	As the representative Rasmus Hansson writes, 2015 will be an important year for international climate policy – with world top leaders in New York in September to set the globe’s new resilience goals, after one has discussed funding in Addis Ababa. And finally, at the important climate summit in Paris, international climate policy will have a very high focus. The new measures of efficiency involve three innovations, one of which is to see the link between environment and development. The second is that the measurements become universal and will apply to Norway and the United States as much as to any other country, such as Myanmar and Sierra Leona, as the representative Hansson writes in the interpellation. Thirdly, the target shall be determined by all countries and not only implemented administratively by the UN, such as the Millennium Goals. The objectives are ambitious and important, but they should also be realistic, and with well anchored objectives an international consensus must be reached. With experience from the negotiations at the COP meeting both in Copenhagen, Warsaw and Lima, prehistory of global unity is not particularly appealing. We see that of the 17 goals so far described, the challenge is very different, with, for example, one of the extremes and a very important point in a world with a smooth increasing population. Health and education are also other important areas, one should now measure the achievement of a productive capacity. It is therefore important to have an ambition for as good climate goals as possible, and that one also ensure that developing countries that want to go further are given the opportunity to do so, and that incentives are provided for such a commitment. In translating the international resilience targets into national indicators, objectives and policies for better quality of life and environment in the short and long term in Norway, I feel confident that this government, with an ambition to, among other things, strengthening climate reconciliation will implement it in a wise and appropriate manner, including: The cost-benefit factor is an important part of this implementation. Because as a very rich country, we need to be careful to push through expensive symbol policies that only harm important work in the future. So, in the light of recent events in Paris, I will also underline the value of international agreements, partnership and cohesion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e627	Thank you to the interpellant for an important interpellant, and thank you for a good debate. I sat and thought about the thousand-year targets – what made them successful, and what was the success, because we must be able to say that they have contributed very positively to the evolution of the world. I think it's that there were relatively few goals, that they were concrete, that it was easy to communicate them. I remember from school that when you look at both rich and poor countries, it was something you could talk about, something you could chew and something you could take a stand on. And the fact that they're measurable, I also think is a significant factor in that one actually sees if they're fulfilled, instead of just general formulations. I think few, clear and measurable targets that are clear will be positive. At the same time, it will not be able to address all the challenges posed by development policy and climate policy, it must be a broader agenda. As many have been involved, this has been discussed and suggested, and there are probably 70 countries that have helped to pick out 17 new sustainability targets and 150 targets. When I read about them, my experience is that they might look a little bit new and a little bit obligating, and maybe they're a little bit concrete. There will be a call for the Minister of Foreign Affairs – because I believe at least that clear measurable targets also have a clear impact on setting such targets – that there will be a common pressure, not only from nations, but also from school students, NGOs, etc., on meeting the targets. There have been several governments and several nations that have contributed to this, but Norway has been a driving force. We must also be in favour of the new objectives that will be established. I know that it is tempting to go into all the goals you want, and in what is important, cf. the previous debate, but now climate objectives have been proposed. It is important for the whole world to take action, and it will also oblige Norway, as the inter-pellant is clear. Therefore, I would like to focus on combating climate change and its consequences and integrating climate action into national policies and strategies. The government is presenting its climate targets by 2030 in February. I've always been concerned with ambitious goals and political leaders that lie ahead, and I think it's important that a point of desire. However, targets have no effect if they are not filled with concrete action and action. That is why the debate that is going to be going beyond the spring in Stortinget is also important in order to ensure that a person is, in fact, not just fighting to propose the highest goal, but that one is together to propose the concrete measures. In Norway, the recipe is really quite clear. We know it's the oil and gas sector, we know it's the industry, we know it's the transport that's the big sectors that need cut. And it's not that a longer one can choose and choose; one must have a change of pace and actually choose all the measures to achieve the climate goals. In the climate agreement, the goal is 30 pst. cut by 2020, and we do not achieve this without drastic action. Therefore, we cannot spend time discussing whether to take effect from land to new offshore installations – of course, if this is not entirely unreasonable. Nor can one discuss whether to have an increased commitment to public transport, to have a faster transition to an environmentally friendly car park, or to have an even more energy efficient industry. No, the goal is so ambitious that we have to implement all the measures – and perhaps more. That debate must also take place in ours. The Christian People's Party has proposed its own climate law, which we believe is an effective and important measure to integrate climate objectives and measures into all guidelines, in all strategies, so that they are actually adopted. It is not the case in the climate debate that you have a good time – it is urgent. Climate change is not going far ahead; climate change is now happening. That's why it's becoming an important spring on the Biggest to establish that the climate goals we've been ambitious about, the measures we'll need to achieve these goals even more, the Biggest must be ambitious about now in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e646	For us who were UN observers during the process related to the Millennium Goals, it is really quite impressive that they have worked as well as they have worked. There's actually a spring in the hat of the United Nations system, that it works better than we sometimes give the impression that it does, but also that the process and inclusion on the road towards the Millennium Goals has been important. I'll come back to that a little bit. Now that the climate and the environmental challenges we're facing are going to enter, I'll join those who are happy for this interpellant and happy for the initiative of the interpellant, although I disagree that taking anti-growth goals and defining welfare in other ways is a little bit the rich man's privilege to do. From our perspective, we're going to go in and define which values are right for the poorest in the world, I don't think so. They may become unclear, and they may actually become quite provocative internationally. I want to take up a wonder about the climate goals we set, because it's not that we haven't been ambitious enough to set goals, we've been very good at setting goals, but there's nothing to suggest that we're about to be near them. And what surprises me when you look at environmental and climate policies around the world is who succeeds: yes, cities succeed, regions succeed, while nations have failed to achieve their climate goals. We see companies that succeed, and we see many other groups of people that have organized themselves, but we see that nations fail to achieve the major climate goals. Therefore, Norway should not just be in the forefront of setting goals, but we must be in the forefront of implementing the goals that we actually set ourselves. Then I want to give a challenge to the Foreign Minister when we have the opportunity here. One reason why I believe that the Millennium Goals actually worked as well as they did was a process of inclusion and consensus related to the goals they set. Today, half the world's population is under 26. In many of the countries with the greatest challenges, among others: related to poverty, can as much as 80 pst. the population is under 26 years of age. But it is often the older gentlemen who determine the objectives. If you want to achieve international goals that work as the Millennium Goals worked, you also need to include the generation that will implement them and that will live under them. Norwegian youths have run a campaign in the last year to take young people into the stage where we set these goals, because they are the ones to live with the consequences of them, and often they are the ones to implement them. So my question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, as I hope he can say something about, is how the government intends to take up the commitment that exists both in the Norwegian youth, and also in the international youth, to let young people participate in the design of the goals that will form the basis for the society in which they will live.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e661	I also want to thank the interpellant for raising an important question that is actually in two parts. It is important that there are now two parts – first the colossally complicated process of becoming some of the new bearer targets. It is one of the most complicated tasks in international politics Børge Brende and his employees are going to work with now. I don't envy them, or maybe I do. It's at least a very difficult task they're going to do to get all the world's countries to be around it. The new thing is that it should actually apply to us in future and more directly have consequences and be binding on all countries. It's not without reason that we're now concentrating most on part one, where we're in the final phase. An open working group worked and last year produced 17 targets and 170, or whatever it was, indicators as we have said here, and the measurements are now on the table. And one should, in a very short time, come to an agreement on a scheme to work. Norway has played an important role in that work and our one driver. The new government essentially took over the same priorities as the previous one – it only added education and removed distribution, if I don't think completely wrong. Many of the things we've been busy about, such as education, the environment and equality, health, etc. is well taken care of, but it asks the impression that it is an extremely difficult task. It is my clear impression that in the celebrations it is easy to explain how the environment and development are very closely linked. In reality, there is a strong conflict below. Not least, many countries in the south perceive that the emphasis on ecological sustainability, whether natural or climate, may be on financing development and their development opportunities. So, being able to justify materially and properly, and showing, for example, how it is to make better use of the resource base, or the forest, or what it should be, is actually growth-promoting, and contributing heavy funding – extra funding – to the environment and climate that does not replace traditional development, is crucial for closing the link between the red and the green. So Norway has an important part role in what is called financing for development, which is happening in parallel and which one has been in here. And I can't stress enough how important it is. Firstly, as I said, if you want to ensure a credible connection between the red and the green perspective, which is decisive for success, it will require a significant increase in funding. However, in addition to traditional aid and development policies, other sources of funding are, in some cases, much more important. I think in the previous debate the example is that 1 pst. better tax collection in the beneficiary country constitutes twice the assistance of all the world. Flows of capital and tax evasion represent an enormous potential, as well as mobilising, of course, the increased investment of the private sector in developing countries. All of this is a huge possibility where Norway plays a key role. Getting a credible promise of better funding will be decisive for unity, including good goals. In the end, I just want to add that, in my opinion, there can be no doubt whatsoever that a credible Norwegian follow-up to the Berekraftmål, which I think is going to be broad agreement, can only mean that Norway we are moving towards in 2030 or 2050 is a completely different Norway from what we have today when it comes to how we take care of our own resources, how we take care of our natural diversity, how we use it to collect our resources, how we prioritise our environment and climate internationally, how we have gone from being an oil nation to a nation that lives on completely different incomes and how our climate policy looks. I often thought in these debates that some adjustments would lead us in the right direction. No, this is about a fundamental transformation of our economy and the way we live. Hopefully, we'll get a lot of new opportunities to take it inwards, but in my view, it might be that it recognized the most important thing when we're going to start working on these measurements.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e679	I would also like to start by thanking the Greens for a very important debate. This is perhaps the most important debate that the world's parliaments are going to use this year to discuss: how to both create the new Millennium Goals, create the new sustainability goals and at the same time resolve the climate crisis. We expect the Foreign Minister and his colleagues to be good at including the Stortinget, and that we will have many exciting and interesting debates on this topic during the coming year, because it is these two challenges that together pose our greatest threat. We don't solve one problem without also solving the other. Then, during this year, we need clear targets. So many people ask – and of course I agree that the goals we set must be realistic: what is realism? What are realistic goals? The question we have to ask ourselves is: Are the goals good enough, do they bear the carrying capacity of the earth? Are there these goals that are needed to make a world free of poverty? If the answer to that no, then that's what's unrealistic, then we have targets that don't take into account the seriousness we're facing. This year is about mobilizing will, because of course that's the will we need. When the financial crisis hit the rich part of the world in 2008, world leaders were in line with billions of crisis packages to save banks in the rich part of the world. It was of course good and important to prevent unemployment in our part of the world. But it's even more serious that there's a billion people living in starvation. Why don't we find the same will in the world to do something about the really big challenges – with climate, with hunger, with water shortages? Why has the will been greater to save the world's richest banks than to save the world's poorest people? I wish the Foreign Minister and his colleagues every success in the very important negotiations they are going to, in Addis Ababa, in New York and in Paris. Norway has some of the world's best dealers, and I'm sure they're going to do a brilliant job everywhere they represent us. But what other entrances does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see? In what other areas can Norway influence? We in Norway have, for example, a very strong civil society. How do the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Government include civil society in the important work to be done now? They are left with other channels, and there are entries that Norway should use. Børge Brende represents a political party. How does he work against his colleagues, his conservative colleagues, in the rest of the world? Of course, we also need to work on all kinds of platforms. That's what we in the Workers' Party are going to do to our sister parties. We call for this government itself to come up with several new initiatives. In addition to being present where appropriate, Norway should also take its own initiative. It did the Stoltenberg I government when it set itself the goal of vaccines for all the children of the world. It did so by the red-green government when it put in place the rainforest plot and also took the initiative for disarmament. All of this has since become the joint ownership of all political parties in Norway. But what initiatives does this government see fit to take, things to do outside the negotiations, initiatives that Norway can take on its own? Finally, of course, this must also be said for Norway. The goals we set, what we say in speeches out in the world, have to say something for our own policy. We have to do as we learned from Gro Harlem Brundtland: we have to think globally and act locally. In climate policy, we're going to imagine the victims of the typhoon in the Philippines, but we're going to do the job ourselves. We are the ones who are going to be involved in cutting our own emissions. It's true that Bård Vegar Solhjell ended his post by saying: if all the countries of the world are to do this, we must have a completely different society in the year 2040 and 2050. We must take responsibility for creating that society ourselves. All the decisions we make in the Storting must lead to the low-emission society that barely has emissions. I look forward to many exciting debates on that in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e692	It is positive and important that the environment is given a central place in the new sustainability targets by 2030. Norway has taken a significant responsibility for following up the Millennium Development Goals within, for example: global health and education. We have also done a lot for many years to help make the environment and climate a central part of the development work. Rainforest activity, which was otherwise initiated by the current Minister for Foreign Affairs Børge Brende, is a very good example of an initiative that contributes both to the preservation of indigenous rights and to the conservation of biodiversity in the rainforest, and also to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. We know that the UN's Green Climate Fund will be important for putting the environment and climate on the agenda and implementing measures in developing countries. The government has said that it will now support that fund by 1.6 billion. kr in the following years. It's very positive. There were questions from the interpellant about how we can use the oil fund to stimulate growth within, for example. renewable energy in the future. The Oil Fund has already increased its mandate from 30 billion. DKK to 50 billion. kr in investments in renewable energy. It is a positive development, and in the future we will now consider how to further use the oil fund to promote a sustainable agenda in the coming years. In addition, we are working directly on the ground to develop renewable energy through Norfund and SN Power as two important government tools, which have the opportunity to work in a completely different and much more direct way than the oil fund could ever do. In addition, we use the UN's green development mechanism, CDM, a tool that I know Hansson's representative is very critical of, but which contributes to concrete measures to cut greenhouse gas emissions in developing countries. The interpellant is concerned about how Norway should follow up sustainability targets. Of course, he is right to be, and I am pleased that the government is so offensive now, before the new sustainability targets have been adopted, in order to bring about a shift in the pace of environmental and climate work in Norway. It's true, as the Aukrust representative also pointed out, that we have to take our share of responsibility, even here at home, and go ahead with a good example. The government has announced a big message on biodiversity that will just look at how Norway is going to meet the commitments we have made internationally to preserve biodiversity, and – of course more important than that – how to stop the loss of species at home. On the climate side, we are in the process of strengthening the climate agreement, together with our friends in the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Advance Party. It's been a change of pace compared to the previous government. I know that this may be a bit too detailed for this debate, but let me nevertheless mention some areas where we have reinforced the climate agreement: in the area of public transport – a very important area where we have said that we will provide state funding up to 50 pst. of all major collective actions in and around the major cities; it is very important – train investment, cycling, new criteria for eco-friendly urban development and stronger investment also in environmental and climate technologies, which are crucial for the work we are facing, and which will enable us to continue the success that has led to the reduction of emissions by 40 pst. since 1990. Also heating for construction is cut with over 40 pst. since 1990. A faster conversion of the transport sector is absolutely necessary. There we have now announced cheaper hybrid cars, we are continuing the electric car launch, and we have also promoted a number of measures to promote biofuels, which will be important to reduce emissions here at home. So we're in the process, but let me stress that research and development and putting into practice and developing new technologies are going to be absolutely crucial to achieving the goals, both here at home and out. The fact that Norway has such a strong economic situation enables us to deliver more than what our size should be – both in the green shift here at home and also to contribute to a green shift out.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e713	I would like to thank you for a good debate with many contributions, which can at least be said to gather that Norway – both the government and the opposition in Stortinget – sees the importance of the new sustainability goals that come, both for Norway’s role in promoting international sustainable development and as a framework for further development in Norway. What becomes interesting to see, when the targets are actually adopted, and not least when the very comprehensive set of criteria that follow the targets is established, is the extent to which it will be willing to take the objectives and criteria set directly into Norwegian policy in the way it is intended to be included, and to apply them as drivers of development in these areas, including for Norwegian policy. So far, we have heard a lot from the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the efforts that Norway is going to make in the face of goals that are going to affect the development of other countries, but as the representative Solhjell also pointed out, the big difference is that this is about us, and it must seem. Then I'm going to send a visit to the representative Skei Grande, because she surprised me a little bit by taking a break from the assumption that – the representative Skei Grande has left the hall, that's sad, but that's what it is – quality of life as a goal of development. Now, above all, it's not that quality of life is just a luxury of rich people to escape, quality of life is reasonably as necessary for poor people as it is for rich people, but it can yield different results. But we are in a situation where just arguing that we should set quality of life goals aside to promote material development for poor people elsewhere in the world is the fundamental misunderstanding that creates a bad development for people around the world, and undermines the future life base. It is when quality of life for all is the ultimate goal that we have a development that preserves the basis of life and future opportunities for all. So I look forward to how this will be followed up by the government towards Stortinget, internationally and not least nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e726	First of all, I would like to thank the inter-pellant, Hansson, for addressing this important issue: how are we going to secure offensive and viable sustainability targets that will replace the thousand-year targets that have had such a positive impact on the international development agenda since the year 2000? If we hadn't had them, I actually think that the development agenda had not had such good results to point to – very concrete and measurable. What we have to remember in this debate is that this is the redemption of the Millennium Goals. The main objective of the new sustainability targets is to eliminate all global poverty by 2030. But then we have said that it is not possible without sustainable principles and that economic growth must be decoupled from growth in greenhouse gas emissions and the destruction of biodiversity. But what's really going to be the challenge is to make these sustainability goals as effective as the Millennium Goals. We have halved the number of poor people living in extreme poverty since 2000, and by 2030 we will eliminate all extreme poverty. Funding it and commitment to national resource mobilisation are the main challenge. Then it should be clear that when these objectives are in place, we will of course do it at home in Norway as well as necessary in the fields of climate and biodiversity. But it is important that we do not forget that the coming months will define the global development agenda for the next 15 years. We're going to be ambitious, we're going to have to be a proponent to get in addition formulations that are not there, on the board, on human rights. We're going to make sure that education, too, now becomes a commitment. Unfortunately, in recent years, we have seen globally and nationally that we have not increased the investment in education. We see the consequences of that globally as well. With regard to this government's agenda and management, which was requested, we are now heading forward towards the development finance conference in Addis Ababa, Monterrey 2. We have taken a global leadership in education. And when it comes to becoming a joint owner, those who took part in the debate on the education message here a few minutes ago, have already seen that the government has set up in terms of education, have become a joint owner – it's almost as if it's been a joint owner for several years. And nothing is better. We're going to take a global leadership role in education, as we've done in health and vaccination, as we've done in the rainforest. This is going to be an incredible effort, and it is good that we stand together in Norway to be a driving force to achieve – again – good international goals that will eliminate all extreme poverty. It's just to get the job started!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e739	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e753	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e767	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e773	The size should then go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e793	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e801	Case No. 3 and 4 are the second time legal proceedings, Laws 36 and 37. There are no comments on any of the cases. The law of the Storting 36 and 37 was thus approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-13.ana.ud616e852	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
