ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e93	The purpose of Arctic Councils is to promote cooperation between the Arctic and Arctic indigenous peoples’ organisations, in particular in the fields of sustainable development and environmental protection. Arctic Council is the only common arena of political cooperation at ministerial level for the eight Arctic nations, and I have personally enjoyed following Arctic Council from the very beginning up towards the Rovaniemi cooperation, etc. in 1996 and saw the significant development of the Council in terms of resources, organisation and political importance. In its position on this matter, where the Committee is well composed, we will therefore stress that Arctic Councils are very important both for the disciplines for which the Council is directly responsible and as a meeting place for dialogue and the gradual development of cooperation on other Arctic issues. At the same time, therefore, the Arctic Council is a high-level forum, and Council decisions are taken by consensus. It is international law and the obligations of international law that constitute the legal framework for the administration of the northern regions, and there is broad international agreement that the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea is the main basis of international law for the Arctic Ocean. The Committee welcomes the fact that, according to the National Audit Board, the Arctic Council effectively contributes to strengthening cooperation between countries and increasing knowledge of key issues, in particular on the environment and climate change in the Arctic. At the same time, however, the National Audit Office finds that the organisation of Arctic Councils is not appropriate and that the management of the work is partially inadequate. Among other things, Arctic Councils have not provided enough for the participation of indigenous peoples in the Council's work. It also appears that there are weaknesses in the coordination and follow-up of the Norwegian work related to the Council. The National Audit Office therefore considers that there is a significant potential for more effective cooperation and use of Council resources if there is agreement in the Council on better coordination and more predictable financing of work. The Committee takes note of the Minister for Foreign Affairs' response to this question and assumes that the Council of State follows up the observations of the National Audit Office as specified. The Committee has also noted that the Riksrevision in this study does not directly discuss the factor that may have the greatest impact on the ability of the Arctic Council to deliver on the objective, namely the relationship between the Arctic Council and the main political interests of the participating nations. It is the economic drivers behind political, economic and other developments, the environmental and climate situation and other conditions in the Arctic. These interests are not, or only indirectly, part of the responsibility and work of the Arctic Council. The Council's potential for real impact on sustainable development and climate change in the Arctic is greatly limited by this. In the case of Norway, oil, fisheries and shipping are not affected by the work of the Arctic Council, although these interests are among the most governing Norwegian Arctic policy. The National Audit Office points out weak involvement from departmental departments other than the Ministry of Climate and Environment. This may be a consequence of the government’s small desire for Arctic Councils to engage in areas related to vital Norwegian resource interests. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirms in its response the need for better coordination of Norwegian actors, but is currently limited to assessing how coordination with the departments concerned can be improved. In examining this matter, a joint committee has therefore concluded that the Riksrevision study suggests that Norway can better clarify the expectations we have about what Arctic Council should be and what results the Council is expected to deliver. It is not appropriate to create expectations that Arctic Councils will contribute to more concrete cooperation and results in important disciplines than is realistic with the given conditions for the work of the Council. In our view, if cooperation is not gradually extended to major policy areas, the Arctic Council will also have a limited capacity to deliver concrete and measurable cooperation such as indigenous rights, sustainable development and environmental protection in the future. It does not necessarily limit the importance of the Arctic Council in other areas, but it will be an important clarification in relation to the expectations we can have of the Council. Furthermore, the Committee endorses the recommendations of the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e116	I also refer to the statement made by the rapporteur, since the Committee is in agreement with all the comments made on this matter. Norwegian authorities stress that Arctic Council is the leading Arctic policy body and the main forum for discussion of common challenges. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for the implementation and coordination of Northern Region policy, including international cooperation in the Arctic Council. The Ministry is therefore also responsible for coordinating Norwegian participation in the Arctic Council with the responsible sectoral departments. The National Audit Board has examined the work of the Governing Board with the Arctic Council. The purpose of the investigation has been to assess the work of the Norwegian Governing Boards with the Arctic Council and to highlight how they operate with the areas that the Arctic Council draws up as a central body, through its recommendations to the Member States. In addition, the audit includes intergovernmental work in Arctic Councils. The study covers the period from the creation of Arctic Councils in 1996 to mid-2014. In fact, the investigation is also part of a multilateral revision of the Arctic Council, where national audits from both Denmark, Norway, Russia, Sweden and the United States have participated. The National Audits in Canada and Finland have our observers. This is a work that was initiated jointly by the Russian and Norwegian National Auditor. The report finds that Arctic Councils have contributed to strengthening cooperation in the Arctic and to increasing knowledge of key issues, particularly the environment and climate change in the Arctic. They also find that the organisation of Arctic Councils is not appropriate and that the management of work is inadequate when it comes to priorities, funding and reporting. They further wrote that the Arctic Council did not adequately facilitate the participation of indigenous peoples in the work of the Council, and that there are weaknesses in the coordination and follow-up of the Norwegian work associated with the Arctic Council. It is positive that Arctic Councils are helping to strengthen cooperation between countries and are able to increase knowledge of key issues, in particular the environment and climate change in the Arctic. The aim of the Arctic Council is to promote cooperation between the Arctic states and the Arctic indigenous communities, especially in the fields of sustainable development and environmental protection. In fact, the Council is the only arena of political cooperation at ministerial level for all eight Arctic nations and has developed significantly in terms of resources, organisation and political significance. The Council is important for the disciplines for which they are directly responsible, but also as a meeting place for dialogue and the progressive development of other Arctic issues. The Arctic Council has drawn up eight ministerial declarations with recommendations for, inter alia: Member States where the recommendations are based on this knowledge. The Arctic Council's recommendations are not binding on international law, but it is important, according to the National Audit Office's assessment, that the Arctic States, including through the Council, can demonstrate that they take responsibility for ensuring sustainable development in the Arctic. Furthermore, the study shows that the knowledge acquired by Arctic Councils has been used in input into the further development of other international cooperation and international conventions in different fields. For example, evidence of the effects of long-distance transport pollution in the Arctic has advised play an important role in the development of regional and global solutions to reduce emissions of pollutants and heavy metals. Arctic Council documentation on the significant climate change in the Arctic has also been a very important knowledge of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. I found it positive that the Sami people have access to Arctic Council by including them at home by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If other indigenous groups are not included by their own countries, I believe that the Council must take the initiative to do something. The Arctic and the North are important to us. It is important for the climate, it is important for the environment, and it is important for the ownership of the Arctic. It is important that Norway, as a nation, is strongly committed to the Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e142	Let me start with something that the last speaker was talking about, namely that this study is part of a multilateral revision of the Arctic Council, initiated by Russia and Norway in its time. And let me praise the National Audit Office for contributing to an international multilateral audit that examines both Arctic Councils and Arctic Councils, and also that some national audits have gone deep and looked at practices in individual countries and how they follow up the findings. I had the pleasure of hearing the U.S. National Audit Board present its findings in November in Washington, and its conclusions are quite similar and have many common features with what the Norwegian National Audit Board has found for Norwegian follow-up to these agreements and the activities of the Arctic Council. An audit is in itself retrospective, so I thought I'd make some comments about this that are not only retrospective, but also how we're going to move forward on the basis of the experiences we've made so far. The National Audit Office points mainly to the fact that Arctic Council has contributed to strengthening Arctic cooperation and has improved the knowledge of the region. I want to use a stronger word: I want to establish that the Arctic Council has been a success for Norway. The Council was established in 1996. It celebrates until the next year 20 years as a forum for the Circumpolar Cooperation throughout the Arctic. The starting point was environmental cooperation and the continuation of what was called The Arctic Environmental Protection Strategy, which was also extended to sustainable development. Cooperation has gradually become increasingly focused on climate change and the major consequences it can have in the Arctic and the North. Today, however, cooperation in Arctic Councils in addition to climate and environment also includes shipping, overall management, oil and gas issues, tourism, education, research, health and issues related to economic and cultural activity. Arctic Councils are also the only Circumpolar and the leading Arctic political body. There is also reason to stress that after the last enlargement with observers, there are now 20 countries, including the EU, around the table, representing two thirds of the economic sizes globally. It is my opinion that the cooperation within Arctic Council over the years has continued to be strengthened. The Council has helped to put important issues on the agenda, not least the environment and climate, on which I was involved, but also in areas such as shipping, oil, gas and tourism. As far as shipping is concerned, we see in these days that we also get a polar code. There has been an important topic in Arctic Council. Binding agreements have been concluded, only in 2011 on search and rescue, which are important for the development of the northern regions. It was complemented in 2013 by a cooperation agreement on preparedness and response to marine oil pollution in the Arctic, and we have established a permanent secretariat in Tromsø. It is now up and going too far and will help to address some of the challenges pointed out by the National Audit Office. For Norway, the key foreign policy objectives of the Northern Region policy have been to ensure peace, stability and predictability. It has been to ensure a comprehensive ecosystem-based management that takes care of natural diversity and provides a basis for sustainable use of resources. It has been to strengthen international cooperation and the international legal order. And it has been to strengthen the basis for employment, value creation and well-being across the country through regional and national efforts, in cooperation with partners from other countries and with the indigenous people concerned. In this way, the Arctic Council has been an indispensable tool for the nation of Norway. However, there have been major changes in the period from 1996, both in relation to climate issues and knowledge of them, and in relation to the attention and opportunities offered in the north. This development is not necessarily linked to the Arctic Council and, as the Riksrevision is involved, there is still much of the original structure. I am pleased that the Americans, who have now taken over the presidency of the Arctic Council, have put the debate on Arctic Council and the organisation on the agenda, and will address the issues that have been raised by both the Norwegian National Audit Office and the other national audits, on how to organise this to meet the challenges we face today, and on how to make better use of the resources. At the same time, I believe it is absolutely essential to take on board that the basis set out by the working groups and the various ‘task forces’ under the Arctic Council in terms of knowledge has been absolutely crucial to our understanding of the functioning of the Arctic in an international context, both climatically and not least in view of the impacts of climate change in the Arctic. These are professional assessments that are leading its field in the world and have been absolutely crucial for understanding that the Arctic is playing a key role in the global understanding of climate change. The Committee has some passers-bys, as the rapporteur also pointed out, that we should clarify more clearly the expectations of what Arctic advice should be and what results can be expected to deliver. I can agree with that, but I also want to stress, and I am sure the Foreign Minister will agree that we cannot just sit back and let it be a responsibility for the other countries. If we want to clarify expectations, if we still want Arctic advice as an important tool to take care of Norwegian interests in the northern regions and in the Arctic, we need to create that situation ourselves. It involves an active political activity, it involves a clear political agenda, and it must be followed up by Norwegian authorities. I'm going to end by saying that a special feature and what is a special feature of the Arctic Council is that from the very beginning, indigenous people have been included in the work – not just included, they've been sitting around the decision table with the Arctic states. It is not just a particular feature of which other international bodies that have indigenous peoples in their territory should be inspired, for example. The Nordic Council, but it has also been part of the basis for the success of the Arctic Council in having legitimacy for what issues are put on the agenda. I share the concern about the possibility of participation for indigenous peoples. One thing is the Sami people, who have relatively good assumptions for participation, but let me say that there too, with increasing volume of work in the Arctic Council, it extends its resources in terms of opportunities, and that is the basis for discussing the need for better funding arrangements. But the other indigenous peoples too have challenges, and that is an issue that is on the agenda of the Arctic Council, and which Norway should also engage and support.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e172	The overall objective of Norway with Arctic cooperation is to ensure peaceful, predictable and stable development of the Arctic. When the Council was established in 1996, there was no specific cooperation between governments in the eight Arctic countries. Today, we have extensive cooperation on a number of issues, on which several representatives have been involved, where indigenous people are central participants. Several countries in the world regard Arctic Council as a good example of future-oriented regional cooperation. I am pleased that the National Auditorate recognises the Arctic Council's central function in strengthening cooperation and contact between the Arctic states. Through the professional work of the Arctic Council working parties, we have also gained a lot of knowledge of the particular climate and environmental changes in the Arctic. These themes were the main priority of the Arctic Council States in the early years. And it's still central: at the ministerial meeting in Canada in Iqaluit in April, we became, among other things, agree on an action plan for the reduction of emissions of soot and methane, not least with an important input – the major climate conference in Paris in December of this year, COP 21. Norway has also worked to improve economic development on the agenda of the Arctic Council. Last autumn, Arctic Council set up industrial representatives from the Arctic States to set up Arctic Economic Council. Two agreements have been negotiated since 2011 at the initiative of the Council: the search and rescue agreement and the agreement on increased oil protection preparedness. The United States took over the presidency a few weeks ago, and we need to seize this opportunity to further strengthen Arctic cooperation. The United States has put this high on the agenda, and in the Arctic Council Norway is now in the driving seat, together with the other Arctic states, in important priority areas. In many areas, Norway sets the standard in the Arctic, in particular: environment. We shall continue to do so, in line with Norwegian interests. This is why we are stepping up cooperation with the United States on Arctic issues in general and with the American Presidency on Arctic Councils in particular, as mentioned above. on climate and sea issues. Following pressure from Norway, it has been agreed to move the Secretariat of indigenous organisations to Tromsø to be co-located with the Secretariat of the Arctic Council. We expect this to contribute to making the participation of indigenous peoples in the Council more effective. The establishment of the Arctic Council Secretariat in 2013 has also made the Council as a whole more professional, efficient, predictable and less dependent on its capacity at all times. I agree with the representative Eirik Sivertsen when he summed up that the Arctic Council has been a success both in terms of overall multilateral cooperation and in terms of gaining knowledge of the state of the environment and climate in the Arctic. This is also the conclusion of the Riksrevision, as far as I can understand. The Arctic Council has therefore been well organised to serve the main interests of its members in the years since its establishment in 1996. I agree with the National Audit Office that it is possible to further streamline the Council's work in terms of both coordination of working groups, funding and communication. These included: Norway therefore worked for the Arctic Council to have its own secretariat. And as I said, it was established in 2013, and we're starting to see the results of this now. I will, together with the other Arctic states, seek consensus on good solutions that will contribute to increased predictability and efficiency in the future. Furthermore, the National Audit Service believes that Arctic Council has not adequately facilitated the participation of indigenous peoples. Arctic cooperation is characterised by the special place of indigenous peoples. Not least those of us who were in Iqaluit, Canada, where we played very hard with indigenous people, and the joint president was also part of the Norwegian delegation. But when that is said, the cooperation in the Arctic Council is very extensive. It requires considerable resources in terms of competence, funding and personnel. The government's view is that the Arctic states themselves should provide funding for their own indigenous peoples' participation in Arctic cooperation. The Government supports the Council financially to ensure their participation in different forums. In addition, the government also cooperates closely with the Arctic Sameting. The National Audit Office also notes that there are weaknesses in the coordination and follow-up of Norwegian work in the Arctic Council. On this basis, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has already reviewed our procedures to see how we can better coordinate and follow up the national work of Arctic Councils. Among other things, written procedures have been established for the meetings of officials of the Council and half-yearly administrative coordination meetings have been set up. I am also concerned about a good dialogue with Stortinget on Arctic issues. During the six-month Northern Area Dialogue two days ago, several representatives highlighted the importance of maintaining high levels of environmental protection on the agenda of the Arctic Council. I fully share this view and will of course follow up on the important work that will now be done within this field in the future. The Arctic Council's work on environmental toxins is a good example of how the Council brings knowledge about the Arctic to other international processes. Arctic Councils have contributed to the development of international agreements and conventions, for example: Minamata Convention on Mercury. The work of the Arctic Council is also an important input into the improvement of existing conventions, so as to ensure the best possible protection of the Arctic environment. The government wants a constant focus on how we can strengthen Arctic advice. The National Audit Office's analysis will be an important tool we should use in this work. Tenth End: It's useful to remember what Arctic advice isn't. It is not a resource and management body, nor is it a commitment to international law cooperation. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs makes this clear in its observations in its position when it points out that the main drivers of political and economic development are not, or only indirectly, part of the responsibility and work of the Arctic Council. This does not mean that the work of the Arctic Council is not important, but that we must recognise that the Council is unique in its form and its function in relation to other international forums. The Committee concludes that it is important that we clarify expectations about what the Arctic Council is actually supposed to be and what results the Council can expect to deliver. I agree with that, and I hope that this debate will also contribute to precisely that, that we are clear on what we can expect. Then the delivery of targets will also be much easier in the future, because realistic targets have been set for an important body such as the Arctic Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e204	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e207	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good presentation and a good confirmation that he wishes to follow up the advice given by the Committee on the basis of the National Audit Office's investigation. Arctic Council started as an environmental cooperation. Environmental protection has always been a main tool, and perhaps especially for Norway, where the Minister of Foreign Affairs was involved, not least a programme such as the Arctic Monitoring and Assessment Programme has been a key instrument for positioning Norway in the Arctic Council. The Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned inter alia: the use of pollutants as a result. At the same time, the Council is challenging the Arctic Council to produce knowledge but to a lesser extent to apply knowledge. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs draw up some lines on how Norway thinks further use of both the Arctic Monitoring and Assessment Programme, especially and environmental data in general, is an instrument in its Arctic Council-cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e216	First of all, I would also like to say to the rapporteur that there has been a useful process, and the department has studied carefully the comments that have been made, and the report of the National Audit Office, which I presented. As regards work on the North and Arctic environment, this has been a priority area for Norway since the Arctic Council was initiated. All good environmental and climate work, efforts to limit the spread of pollutants, grasshopping effects, etc. must be based on knowledge, based on a good overview of what is actually happening. So having good observation, well-documented knowledge and facts as the basis for climate change work – which is happening at twice the speed in the Arctic as elsewhere – is environmental, etc., that this is evidence-based and research-based, is significant in the future to be able to have an impact on these processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e223	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e239	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e248	Nuclear weapons are completely useless as military weapons. Such weapons have unacceptable humanitarian consequences and run counter to international instruments, NPT, humanitarian law and international environmental law. They do not distinguish between civil and military. Hiroshima and Nagasaki are cruel testimony. In addition, the use of nuclear weapons is a double edged sword. The retribution is coming. Therefore, nuclear weapons are primarily used to deter, maintain a terrorist balance. This distinguishes nuclear weapons from other weapons of mass destruction, such as chemical and biological weapons. This dimension makes the work of an international legal framework that prohibits nuclear weapons, as we do against chemical and biological weapons, more demanding. There is a great deal of consensus about the vision and the goal, a world without nuclear weapons. It is reflected in NATO's strategy. President Obama revitalized this vision when he joined, and he put in place a new nuclear strategy to reduce and delineate the deterrent role of nuclear weapons in security policy – a first step, which also brought coherence to NATO's strategic concept. And when even former central leaders like the foreign ministers Henry Kissinger and George Shultz and Senators Sam Nunn and Perry demand a world free of nuclear weapons, there should be hope of making the vision a reality. After three decades of progress and hope that the arms spiral of the Cold War could be snuffed out, the first decade of the new century became the lost decade of disarmament efforts. The new START II agreement between the United States and Russia, which reduces the number of nuclear weapons deployed by one third, was a new step in the right direction. But there's more to it, much more. The Oslo Conference on the Humanitarian Impact of Nuclear Weapons launched by the Stoltenberg Government in 2013 gave a new approach and new energy to nuclear disarmament. As the setting shows, there's cross-political outreach about the goal, a world without nuclear weapons. There is also agreement that: ‘work to achieve the vision of a world free of nuclear weapons through balanced and reciprocal disarmament agreements is anchored in NATO’s strategic concept’. The consensus that NATO is building its deterrent strategy on nuclear weapons does not prevent Norway from actively working for a process of creating a legal framework that prohibits nuclear weapons. As the setting shows, there are different views about how the vision of a world without nuclear weapons can be realized. I expect that the minority will explain its views. But the dividing lines are really not big. None of the batches considers that the path to a ban can be guided by unilateral measures. We're not getting a world free of nuclear weapons by the fact that every country that through the NPT has already waived the right to nuclear weapons is joining forces to make a ban. The minority indicates that what is now referred to as the humanitarian initiative has been dismantled by many countries. That's good. However, the most important countries still lack nuclear weapons. The nuclear powers must be involved in this work. The process must include a balanced and verifiable disarmament of the nuclear arsenals. Today, the non-proliferation agreement is the overall framework for nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. In this, the nuclear powers commit themselves to nuclear disarmament. There is a lack of follow-up to these commitments that created the need for new initiatives, as was the approach to the humanitarian consequences. Our government took this initiative. And as a clear majority says in the setting: ‘Norway must play a driving role in further efforts to create a process based on balanced disarmament and with the long-term aim of creating a legal framework that prohibits nuclear weapons.’ [[...]] It has to be a process in which the nuclear powers are also involved. The right hand party and the Progress Party must themselves explain why they cannot support this demand for an active driving role from the Norwegian side. I assume that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is dealing with the majority of this when he writes in his letter to the Committee: ‘In matters of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, the Government follows the same main line as the previous government.’ It includes an active driving role. Finally, the Labour Party will not break the long established tradition of not instructing the government in these kinds of foreign policy issues through decisions in the Stortinget. But we assume that the Foreign Minister can read where the majority in this case is and is dealing with it. In this context, I will refer to Johs. Andenæs, who writes in his book ‘The Constitution of Norway’ that although Stortinget ‘the Government cannot impose binding obligations on it, but must pay close attention to a recommendation, the position of the Grand Duchy would be politically binding on the Government’.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e309	I would first like to thank the President-in-Office for a good and tidy work on this matter. Progressive conflicts call for Norwegian foreign and security policy. The importance of maintaining the Norwegian consensus-oriented policy is greater than ever. Our NATO membership, together with UN involvement and relations with the EU, has been the cornerstones of our foreign and security policy. It has given us the mutual predictability that we and our immediate surroundings, our friends and allies, depend entirely on. The proposal we are debating today, a binding, binding ban on nuclear weapons – contrary to the concept of the alliance – is rocking the Norwegian consensus line. The position of the Committee, promoted by the majority, ensures that we remain a credible alliance partner. Norway is known for its commitment to NATO. We cannot support NATO's defence strategy and at the same time lead in a process that is countering this strategy. I would like to quote NATO's Secretary-General from when he joined in March 2014, when he said about nuclear weapons: ‘It has been part of NATO’s strategy ever since NATO was established, and it remains part of NATO’s strategy. There are some Norwegian governments that have been in agreement over the years.’ The message was repeated when he visited Norway last week: ‘NATO’s objective is a world free of nuclear weapons, but as long as nuclear weapons are available, NATO will also have nuclear weapons as part of its deterrence.’ These are wise words that I fully agree with. We all agree to work for a world free of nuclear weapons – of course we are. The question is what means we use, who we ally with, to achieve this. Norway has worked actively to strengthen the three pillars of the non-proliferation agreement — disarmament, non-proliferation and peaceful use. We must help those countries that have nuclear weapons to reduce their arsenals. We are helping to prevent new countries from getting nuclear weapons, and we are uncompromising in the fight against nuclear weapons being given to non-state actors. Norway will continue to work as we have always worked on this problem, where we can get the most throughput and counting. This was done by Norway at the non-proliferation agreement supervisory conference in New York last month. Although a final document was not agreed, it is nevertheless positive that the initiative on humanitarian consequences has now become an integral part of the discussion on nuclear disarmament, with the full support and commitment of the Norwegian Government, of course. We are going to build on this work so that step-by-step progress can be made and in the long term open up a subsequent work for an international convention that regulates the conditions of a world free of nuclear weapons. It is in itself a good thing to discuss different ways towards the goal, and it is also reflected in the comments in the vote, which the rapporteur had in mind. But at the same time, it is important to be aware of the consequences for our credibility. NATO's strategic concept states that NATO will remain a nuclear alliance as long as nuclear weapons exist. We have to remember that. All decisions in the alliance have been unanimous. I would like to make it clear that no other NATO country wants to go the path proposed by the proposers. With the unrest and conflicts we see in the world today, Norway has not served to signal a weakening of the alliance. The proposal comes at a time when the world is in the midst of a series of crises. Russia’s President Putin’s statement that nuclear weapons can be used, if necessary, in Ukraine, the statement that Russia has the right to deploy nuclear weapons on Crimean Peninsula, the threat of using nuclear weapons against Danish frigates – these are examples of today’s reality. An agreement on Iran's nuclear programme is also still under way. In addition, North Korea has not hidden its application capabilities. I sometimes miss a broader mention of the nuclear powers in open conflicts in public vocabulary – making them responsible, and not weakening NATO's deterrentness. Then it's important to have ice cream in your stomach and work through diplomatic processes. It's important that we stand together within the alliance we're in, which has solid support in the people and in this room. Adopting a binding ban today is the wrong way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e343	The debate on nuclear weapons is full of paradoxes. No force created by humans has greater potential for destruction than nuclear weapons. At the same time, nuclear physics has given us tremendous progress in all scientific fields – from medicine to computer technology and quantum physics. The center party, the left and the SV want a world without nuclear weapons. I do, too, but banning them can be fatal. The proposers indicate that the world has the power to ban chemical and biological weapons. With what the proponents claim, there are no good reasons why nuclear weapons should be legal, as they are even more destructive. The proposers are wrong. It's just the ability of nuclear weapons to total destruction that makes the weapon impossible to prohibit, no matter how desirable it should be. It is the destructive force that will not be an effective worldwide ban on such weapons. Nuclear weapons are an ultimate weapon. If used, it would make all other weapons irrelevant. Nuclear weapons exist, and the technology cannot be clamped back onto the tube. If all nuclear powers agreed to give up their weapons, but one country cheats, this one country will have an almost insurmountable takeover in a potential conflict. There is a risk no rational state can or will take, and that's precisely why nuclear weapons will never disappear from the surface of the earth. In such a perspective, there is also no point in working for a ban on such weapons. Rational state actors who now own nuclear weapons will not give up their nuclear arsenal, no matter how strictly the ban the representative Solhjell wants to introduce, and the representatives of Skei Grande, Navarsette and Andersen will be very pleased, for the same weapons that these three want to ban, protect their freedom. NATO's nuclear umbrella protects all the inhabitants of NATO's 28 member countries, including those who want to ban them. Yes, they protect even all those who do not want Norwegian membership in NATO, whether they like it or not. We live in the world of paradoxes. Nuclear weapons create fear, but they have most likely averted more wars and prevented great losses of human lives. The paradox is that a world without nuclear weapons would be less stable and potentially far more dangerous. You know what you have, but you don't know what you get. It called war guarantees of mutual total destruction prevented the war from getting hot. The balance of terror was the most important single factor preventing new major wars in Europe. However, it is worth recalling that NATO as an organisation does not have nuclear weapons. There are three of the countries of the Alliance that own these. The U.S. has pre-stored atomic bombs in five of the alliance's member countries, and the U.S. is in a process of improving its nuclear weapons and making them more accurate. I'm grateful for that. Let's not forget that 99 pst. of all weapons produced, are never used in sharp enemy missions. The vast majority of weapons are disposed of and destroyed without being used until they are designed and produced for. They've done their best. The same thing applies to nuclear weapons. Those who are replaced have done their best and will be destroyed. While the Progress Party actively supports Norwegian membership in NATO and loyally supports the collective conclusion of the doctrines of the Alliance Member States, we support measures that have a realistic approach to the goal of a safer world. This is primarily done by preventing new countries from accessing nuclear weapons and active efforts to prevent non-governmental actors from accessing nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e360	The Christian People's Party has a clear policy against nuclear weapons: Norway’s national defences shall not include nuclear weapons. We need to be an international pusher to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons. We're going to press to get today's nuclear weapons powers to rust down. We're going to work for a long-term ban on nuclear weapons. Our goal is a world free of nuclear weapons. Arguing governments have supported these main lines. Someone has tried to doubt the government's vision. It is therefore positive that the Minister for Foreign Affairs confirms in his letter of reply to the Committee: ‘In matters of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, the Government follows the same main line as the previous government.’ We see this disarmament work in connection with our fight against weapons of mass destruction in general, the so-called ABC weapons. It's nuclear weapons, biological weapons and chemical weapons. There are international treaties prohibiting both chemical weapons and biological weapons. We need a corresponding total ban on nuclear weapons, but the non-proliferation agreement from 1970 is our most important tool. In practice, it represents a ban on almost all the countries of the world. Articles 2 and 3 of the Agreement oblige countries without nuclear weapons not to obtain it. Non-proliferation is a first prerequisite for the success of the removal of nuclear weapons. Since 1970, for example, India and Pakistan acquired nuclear weapons. They're out of the deal. North Korea has signed up to acquire nuclear weapons. Iran's nuclear programme is a cause for concern. We must not least prevent nuclear weapons from coming into the hands of terrorist groups. Non-proliferation is absolutely necessary to achieve a world without nuclear weapons. Disarmament of existing nuclear weapons stocks is another important pillar of the non-proliferation agreement. Article 6 of the Agreement obliges the five nuclear powers to stop arms race and engage in negotiations with a view to an agreement on full nuclear disarmament under strict and effective international control. We must not underestimate the results achieved. The world's arsenals of nuclear weapons were reduced by 80 pst. after the conclusion of the non-proliferation contract. Four fifths of the nuclear weapons are gone. But there's a lot left. For the last two decades, nuclear power has neglected the disarmament process. It's critical. Therefore, the fight for an international ban on nuclear weapons needs to be reinvigorated. Several countries have to take on an active driving role. Norway must be among these countries. Norway is obliged – both as a party to the non-proliferation agreement and as a member of NATO – to work for a world free of nuclear weapons. NATO's 2010 updated strategic concept states that the Alliance members will create a world without nuclear weapons in line with the objectives of the non-proliferation agreement, in a way that promotes international stability and is based on the principle of uncompromising security for all. I am pleased that the vote shows agreement that the work of a world free of nuclear weapons is going through balanced and mutual disarmament agreements, not unilateral measures. The long-term objective is to create a legal framework that prohibits nuclear weapons. It is crucially premise in the strategy for a ban on nuclear weapons – even when we ask the government to work for an international agreement that prohibits nuclear weapons. We must not play the important instrument that the non-proliferation agreement is, we must strengthen it. Countries that are outside must also become parties to the agreement and remove their nuclear weapons. The Christian People’s Party believes that Norway must, in accordance with this, formulate an offensive Norwegian declaration of will on the fight against nuclear weapons – a ‘Norwegian Pledge’ – and work actively and long-term for an international binding agreement prohibiting nuclear weapons. Nuclear weapons are a threat to international security, and a nuclear war will bring untold humanitarian suffering. The fight against nuclear weapons is important from both a humanitarian and a security policy perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e403	The non-proliferation agreement, NPT, is the overarching framework for disarmament and non-proliferation work in the world today. This work had a serious setback on 22 May this year, when the nuclear powers blocked the final document. The government's argument to wait for NPT is therefore no longer credible. We can't wait five years, to the next supervisory conference, or put all our trust in the nuclear weapons states, which are clearly not willing to commit to concrete disarmament. 108 countries are now participating in Humanitarian Pledge, to close the hole in international law and to work to ban and eliminate nuclear weapons. Washington Post calls it a "rebellion" among civil society and the majority of the world's states. The Swedish Foreign Minister, Margot Wallström, has said that Sweden will join the humanitarian promise. The government promises to stand firm on the humanitarian line of the NPT, but fails on an important point, something civil society from all over the world and other states reacts to. Ban Ki-moon urges to ban and eliminate nuclear weapons as soon as possible. When the UN Secretary-General talks, we should listen. Civil society all over the world stands together. All from the Red Cross to the Pope and Colin Powell are united: nuclear weapons are useless weapons, life threatening and should be banned. The non-proliferation regime is at risk. As long as nuclear weapons states refuse to keep their share of the agreement, it cannot be expected that the other countries will respect their part of the agreement not to acquire nuclear weapons. It is crucial that we put in place concrete measures for disarmament and the ban on nuclear weapons. We can save the non-proliferation agreement, which is worth the most important disarmament agreement. All NPT and NATO countries are committed to working for a nuclear-free world. Then we also have to dare to take practical action to get it done. We've been waiting for the nuclear weapons states for 45 years. Now it's time for the great majority of the world's states to merge for progress. ‘Democracy has come to nuclear disarmament’, said Costa Rica under the NPT. The 70th anniversary of the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August is an important and timely way to make progress in disarmament. It is expected that a conference in which the negotiations on a ban will begin will be announced before August. The negotiations will be based on a deal on the humanitarian promise. It is therefore decisive that Norway stands behind the promise and participate in the negotiations. Parliament in the country of NATO, the Netherlands, has already agreed to take part in the negotiations. Norway will therefore not be the first NATO country there. A ban is not contrary to our NATO commitments, but in line with a long and good Norwegian foreign tradition, which also Stoltenberg struck in April. Nor is it a matter of unilateral disarmament, but of laying the foundation for mutual and balanced disarmament. The government's foreign policy must be firmly anchored in the Stortinget. When the elected representatives give such a clear signal that they want Norway to work for prohibition, the government has to follow up. The central party argued that the government would do it. Eight out of ten Northmen stare a ban. Norway has proud traditions as a transitory country in previous processes related to bans on landmines and class weapons. It's bad about our reputation as a peace nation and runaway country for disarmament should be weakened by a government that refuses to take leadership on such an important global issue. There is no one who has asked NATO to give up all its nuclear weapons first. Who should get rid of what weapons, how many, and when, is just something one should agree on through international negotiations. A ban will not in itself directly lead to disarmament, but it will be an important step in the right direction. Therefore, as many countries as possible should participate in these, including Norway. Hiroshima and Nagasaki can happen again. Norway and Norwegian politicians must stand on the right side of history and show the will to ban nuclear weapons. We owe it to our descendants, and we owe it to the global community.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e435	It would be nice if all conflicts could be resolved peacefully, that we will never again experience war and violence. It probably won't happen in the near future. The world is a brutal place. Conflicts exist. Interested objections may come to the fore. Fundamentalist and totalitarian ideologies continue to lure man into performing and accepting destructive acts. A world free of use of power and free of weapons hardly comes with the first. We must accept that the use of military power is sometimes necessary, not least to protect fundamental human rights and free societies. What we should not accept, on the other hand, is that someone should sit down with power that can destroy the very existence of life on earth. Actually, that's what we're talking about here. Nuclear weapons are something people were afraid of during the cold war, it is said, but there is unfortunately little reason to be less afraid today. Still states with nuclear weapons and a willingness to use them. The fact that our neighbouring country now has a high level of nuclear use is a dangerous and frightening development. At the same time as nuclear war between states is still possible, albeit not adjacent, there is a considerable nuclear threat in the form of non-governmental groups, such as terrorist organisations. That they can get nuclear weapons as long as they exist is not impossible. It is only to look at the unstable nuclear power of Pakistan, with significant terrorist activity within its borders. Still there are arsenals of nuclear weapons that, if things go wrong first, can destroy all human life on Earth multiple times. I can hardly think of anything more important political goal than preventing it. So this debate is not about someone being too nuclear, while others are against it. Fortunately, we are gathered in the Storting that it is an important goal to reduce and, in the long term, remove the nuclear threat from the Earth. However, in the setting in this case there are important shades when it comes to the view of the further process, the pace of the international disarmament work and the active role of the Storing. In the view of the Left, it is important not to lose momentum in the international disarmament process. Norway has been at the forefront of the humanitarian initiative. We must continue to do that. Norway is a member of NATO. We're going to continue to do that. International security cooperation is important, and NATO is our main guarantee of security. But as a NATO member, there is no legal obstacle to working for an international ban on nuclear weapons. On the contrary, the symbolic power of a NATO country joining the Humanitarian Pledge – which over 100 countries have already done – will be very great and important. And as Mr Navarsete has pointed out, in the country of NATO, the Netherlands, Parliament has clearly stated that the government must enter into and take part in negotiations on precisely this. There is a need for an offensive attitude. The supervisory conference in May ended without a final document, without unity. It's serious. This gives even greater reason to work for a ban on nuclear weapons than we had before. The alternative to negotiating an international ban seems to be the status quo, i.e. non-performing supervisory conferences. If we are able to put in place an internationally agreed prohibition on nuclear weapons, it will put pressure on nuclear weapons to fulfil their obligations of gradual disarmament. No places here or elsewhere think that a ban on itself will remove all nuclear weapons. Humanitarian Pledge also has no obligation to unilateral disarmament. But – as we have seen with the Landmine Convention and the Class Arms Convention – the fact that many countries join forces to establish an international ban has a strong, norm-making effect. It saw other states under pressure, and it led to speeding down the disarmament work. Therefore, it is important to work for this. The left is pleased that the bulk of the population today gives a clear signal to the government to continue the important work that has been started. Then we would probably wish that the government party – and, in part, the Labour Party – had shown an even more offensive hold. But all in all, we believe that the consideration of this proposal for a representative is an important step in the right direction, that is, towards a value free of nuclear weapons. Here, Norway should and should go in front, and the Left argues that the government is following up the clear signals that come from the majority of the population today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e461	Will the representative address minority proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e464	That's what the representative wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e469	The representative of Sveinung Rotevatn has then taken up the proposals where the Left is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e473	I sometimes meet people who experience nuclear weapons as a problem from the 1970s and the 1980s, but unfortunately, nuclear weapons are today at most a problem for the future. I think it's reasonable to say that nuclear weapons represent a really bigger risk in today's world than they did a few decades ago. First of all, there are more and more unstable countries that now have nuclear weapons. It is because there is a greater risk of their spread, and because there are several non-governmental actors who may be interested in getting access to them and who are willing to use them. It's also because the nuclear weapons we have today have extremely much more explosive than the ones we've seen before. It must also be added that the humanitarian consequences — if nuclear weapons are used — are such that no human being can stand up for or defend their use. For several decades, there has been hardly any progress at all in the international disarmament talks. The humanitarian initiative that Norway was taking on, and which is now in the international process, is completely open to the greatest progress since it calls war its end when it is due to progress in the elimination of nuclear weapons. In the committee setting, there may be three main points of view. Firstly, there is a number of people who think that Norway should work internationally to ban nuclear weapons and to establish a ban on nuclear weapons in the long term. A number of speakers up here have argued very well for it and gone through and rejected several of the counter-arguments, and I think the essence of it is that there will be a norm that will make the threshold for using weapons higher, and reduce them – as it has worked when it comes to biological and chemical weapons. There are biological and chemical weapons in the world today, although we have a ban, but there is a completely different threshold for using them, and that has not happened in the same way to the renewal and increase of those that we see now when it comes to nuclear weapons. I also argued that the government will follow the plurality of Stortinget, which in an annotation form expresses: ‘... Norway must play an active role in international efforts to combat the proliferation of nuclear weapons and work long-term for a ban on such weapons.’ I would also ask the Foreign Minister to clarify explicitly whether the government has plans not to follow up that remark. There's also a minority, of which SV together with the other party is a part, which means that Norway should either give a care or promise, or join another – what's called Humanitarian Pledge. It is now that the majority of the countries in the world have made a statement in line with that. As of today, 109 countries in the world have done so. Then it's important that we see if it can have any effect. Well, if we look at the previous two most successful international efforts to reduce the use of central weapons, class weapons and landmines, they have progressed exactly the same way, with small variations, but exactly the same main way as now. Therefore, I believe that the representative Hansen is completely wrong when he says that a work that does not include the nuclear states cannot be successful. In this case, it is very strange that the exact same approach – starting with countries that would not use landmines or class weapons themselves, and gradually expanding to more – has today led to conventions that have been concluded far from all countries, but which nevertheless function as norms, and have led the market for that type of weapon to collapse completely. So that's just the way that now can ensure progress and success, where Norway has been a leader, where Norway until recently was the initiator, and which makes it important that Norway continues to end it. Norway should now take a leading role in the humanitarian initiative, and not least I argued that the government is doing it in a number of ways in the UK, simply working internationally for a ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e493	The non-proliferation oversight conference was held in New York this year, and one failed to agree on a final statement. It is a serious step backwards for international disarmament efforts that the world’s country has not been able to follow up the NPT commitment to complete disarmament. The international community and Norway now have to ask the question: What now? When the traditional fora of disarmament is at stake, it is necessary to think anew to advance the disarmament process. More than 100 countries have joined the Humanitarian Pledge, which thus calls for negotiations to begin on an international ban on nuclear weapons. Norway has not joined that initiative, despite the fact that Norway was one of the first initiators of the so-called humanitarian trail. It started with a conference on the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons in Oslo in 2013, and from the point of view of the Greens, we are really disappointed that the government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not follow up the initiative launched under the previous government, and that we are now outside this process. The argument against Norway joining this initiative is that it will conflict with our NATO commitments. There are detectable errors. NATO's own Secretary-General, Jens Stoltenberg, has said that the National Labour Party's decision on a ban does not conflict with Norway's obligations as a NATO member. The same is true of the International Law and Policy Institute in its report on the subject. The Green Party is not in favour of the release of NATO, and we believe on the basis of what I have just said, that it is fully possible to combine an active policy of disarmament and to follow up our commitments as a NATO member. We think it is regrettable that the government continues to push NATO forward instead of taking the consequences of what we say, namely that we want a world without nuclear weapons. We note that there is a majority in this Chamber that Norway should clearly support a ban on nuclear weapons. Nevertheless, the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party will not vote in line with their conviction, because they do not want to instruct the government on foreign policy issues. That's a reason we understand, of course. We find it a pity, however, that the proposal of the Left, the Centre and the SV does not get a majority, because it would send a powerful signal to the world that Norway wants a total ban on nuclear weapons, it would get several states to join, and it would have been a start on an initiative of the same type that Norway has participated in taking several times earlier – apart from traditional forums, but with increasing effect. When this will not happen in the short term, we hope at least that the government will listen to the signals given by the majority of the population and adjust the course. It's not too late now, and it's never going to be too late. However, Norway has done so before, we have supported the work of banning class weapons and landmines, and although it was also a long way off, the government at the time concluded that it was correct and important that Norway played a key role in getting these agreements into port. The government has the ability to do the same with nuclear weapons. I think that will be a much more constructive line than the one that the government has just adopted. It's been 70 years since the nuclear bombs fell over Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Those who experienced survival are now dying out, and we can't let it go 70 more years until these weapons are abolished. The government has to ask itself what we're going to answer when our descendants ask what we did to get rid of these weapons, when we knew how dangerous they were.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e510	First, a very brief comment on the last article, so there should be no misunderstandings: as I also wrote in the letter to the Committee, this government is continuing the policy of the previous government in this area. We follow the humanitarian initiative – let there be no doubt about it. But it must not be said that one is disappointed that one does not follow that initiative when there is a new element, and the new element, which was not part of the Oslo Declaration, is the question of a ban on nuclear weapons. I have great respect for the fact that you can have a different view of it, but what we're doing is continuing the line that was added. The additional moment now if a prohibition was not part of that declaration. This is now a new humanitarian initiative through Humanitarian Pledge, the follow-up of Austrian Pledge, to which no other NATO country has joined, and to which the Secretary-General of NATO has established that NATO's strategy is solid. As long as others have nuclear weapons, NATO will have nuclear weapons, but our vision in NATO – and that is important – is that of course we want a nuclear-free world. I think that in a matter like this we should also show such respect for each other that at least we start with the realization that everyone in this room has a strong desire and a vision of a nuclear-free world. Nuclear weapons and nuclear weapons are weapons of mass destruction that we obviously want to eliminate, and then there are different ways to achieve that goal. But what is now one of the main challenges is among other things. that we are at risk of nuclear weapons spreading to more nations, and even terrorists and other extremists in her. So we need to put in even more work to stop the proliferation of nuclear weapons, and we also need to put great emphasis in the future on creating greater understanding of the danger associated with the existence of nuclear weapons. The new security policy image that has emerged in our own part of the world, and the challenges that we also see in the neighbourhood of NATO, shows that we need a thoughtful strategy in terms of NATO solidarity, and in terms of dealing with a coordinated policy with our allies. Therefore, the government is working within established international frameworks to achieve the long-term goal of a world without nuclear weapons. The main framework is the non-proliferation agreement, the NPT, which several have been involved in. Under Article VI of the NPT, nuclear weapons States have committed themselves to disarmament. Non-nuclear weapons countries have undertaken not to acquire such weapons. Unfortunately, the NPT Supervisory Conference in May ended without a agreed final document. This was due, inter alia, to: disagreement relating to the mention of a nuclear-free zone in the Middle East. Norway launched the evidence-based results of the Oslo Conference on the humanitarian consequences of a nuclear detonation. It is positive that the humanitarian perspective has become an essential part of the discussion on nuclear disarmament. The proposal is intended to promote an internationally binding agreement prohibiting nuclear weapons. The NPT Supervisory Conference showed that there is no political basis for this today. The neighbouring and allied countries represent the same thing. So we will now work on the humanitarian initiative as the final document was designed in Oslo, and on which there is broad agreement. That is the basis for the active work that I have also undertaken to do in this area. But when it comes to going for a ban today, it's not going to be in line with our NATO commitments, where the actual nuclear weapon is still part of NATO's strategic concept.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e525	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e528	This could easily be a bit of a funny debate about words, because it's hard to imagine that we're going to achieve a world without nuclear weapons, if we don't get to a legal framework that means that these weapons are banned. The word ‘ban’ may not make it impossible for Norway to assume a driving role in this work. What the wording shows is that a joint committee agrees that working for a world without nuclear weapons is also anchored in NATO's strategy. It is true that NATO has a deterrent strategy based on nuclear weapons, but there is also a vision that the weapons will be removed and that the strategy will no longer be anchored in this. It is a majority of the Committee that asks Norway to play a driving role in further efforts to create a balanced process involving disarmament. Will the Foreign Minister follow up on what is a clear majority's view here in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e537	First, I would like to pay tribute to the President-in-Office to try to sew this document together. As I also said, there is no disagreement in this room, as I see it, in the vision of a nuclear-free world. And then there are different paths to that. An important contribution to the achievement of such a wish over time has been the humanitarian initiative taken in Oslo. What I've established, and I'd like to repeat, is that this government is 100 pst. behind the humanitarian initiative and the final declaration made in Oslo in 2013. Then, in fact, there is a reason – and this is known by such an experienced representative as Hansen – that there was no prohibition in that final declaration by Oslo, because it is complicated in relation to our NATO membership. That's why I'm on it as the red-green promoted in the spring of 2013. That was wise, and so is this government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e546	I agree with the Foreign Minister that we all share the vision of getting to the step where we have a world without nuclear weapons, and I am glad that the Foreign Minister also underlines so clearly that he wants to work for it. So my question is: does the Foreign Minister want to take his own initiative, or does he want to be the pusher who pushes – that is, to play a leading role internationally in promoting non-proliferation, in order to ensure more disarmament, and so that in the long term you can also get a world without nuclear weapons? Will he take the lead?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e553	The short answer to that is yes, and so did we under the NPT. Norway took important initiatives during the NPT Conference in New York. We followed up on the Oslo humanitarian initiative. We worked with, among others. The United Kingdom and Sweden on other important initiatives. So this with nuclear weapons and the spread of nuclear weapons to several countries, as I mentioned in my post as well, and the possibility that this could spread to extremists and other groupings, is one of the major threats facing the world. There we are, and Norway must be clear. This is something that bothers me, and that should bother everyone. Where there is a difference, in this new one that came in with The Austrian Pledge, for Austria, which is a non-NATO country, together with some other non-NATO countries, such as Sweden, have come to the conclusion that this should be carried out with bans as the main thing. We choose to prioritize other arenas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e560	In reply to the Storting in connection with this matter, the Council of State writes that it is important to ensure that the Conference of Supervisors is as successful as possible and that it will be decisive for the further international disarmament work. It was the government's strategy. Then there are new moments in addition, after the Oslo Conference, and it is not that the government can ignore the new elements that emerge in the international community through the humanitarian initiative. Does the Council of State think that the government's strategy has been successful, given the outcome of the Conference of Supervisors? And will the Council of State now change its strategy and follow up its comment on working for a ban?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e567	There was an important NPT conference in New York, but it didn't get the outcome that we worked for, and that we hoped for. There are several elements in this non-proliferation cooperation. One is to initiate and strengthen the work to ensure that nuclear weapons and nuclear weapons do not spread. We didn't get there. Then it's work on disarmament. There are currently too many nuclear weapons, and the nuclear powers must help to reduce the amount of nuclear weapons. There President Obama has taken an initiative, because he wants to reduce the arsenal of the United States by one third. Russia has not responded positively. This is also an important element. The third is the peaceful use of nuclear energy as a source of energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e576	It is good that the government wants a nuclear-free value, and it is good that one will follow the humanitarian initiative. Earlier in the debate today, the government has made very clear contributions. The representative Halleraker said that working for a convention would be in violation of our obligations, and that it would signal a weakening of the NATO alliance. And the representative Tybring-Gjedde said that nuclear weapons would be «indispensable», that they would never disappear, that there was no point in working for a ban, and that a world without nuclear weapons would be more dangerous. Is this expression for the government's hold?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e584	The representative heard my contribution instead and has also looked at the work done by the government during the important NPT conference. It's important for me to make it clear once again that the vision of a nuclear-free world is something we share. In order to get closer to such a vision, I believe that the humanitarian initiative taken by the previous government, which is part of the Oslo Declaration of Spring 2013, has played an important role. The humanitarian initiative was followed up in New York, was an important part of the discussion and negotiations in New York and introduced a new dynamic in these negotiations. What I have underlined, and as several representatives of the government parties have underlined, is that a ban will not now be in line with our NATO commitment. That's our best reading of that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e591	It is very good to say about both the work done by the government and what Mr Brende said in his speech about the humanitarian initiative and its work. But I also notice that the Foreign Minister systematically leaves it to answer one important core question, which I raised in my post, Hansen asked him about it, and Navarsete asked him if he would follow up a perfectly intended plural remark in the Stortinget. So I'm taking it very explicitly. The note reads: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Right and the Progressive Party, will stress the need for Norway to play a driving role in the further creation of a process based on balanced disarmament, not unilateral action and with the long-term aim of creating a legal framework which implies a ban on nuclear weapons.’ Will the Foreign Minister follow up that remark, will he not, or will he once again leave it hanging as unclear whether he will follow up the Multiplicity of Storting right here?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e601	First, thank you for your recognition, and for not talking down the efforts that Norway is making in the follow-up to the humanitarian initiative. There was a broad consensus on the humanitarian initiative, and there has been an additional element that was not part of it, and which was so demanding that it was not wanted to be part of the Oslo humanitarian declaration in 2013 – the issue of a ban. I have answered what is the government's policy in this area. We believe that there is no basis for working for a ban on nuclear weapons today because of our NATO commitment. As long as it's nuclear weapons, NATO will have it. I have underlined that, and I have also stressed that we are continuing to work on the humanitarian initiative taken by the previous government. That's where we're on the whole line. That we are not now working for the additional dimension of prohibition is made clear in my article.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e606	I really want to follow up the question of Bård Vegar Solhjell, because I don't think we get a proper answer as to whether the government is going to follow up on what there is a majority for in this room. All lots, except the Right Party and the Advance Party, write: ‘The majority believe that the fight for an international ban on nuclear weapons requires several countries to take on an active driving role. Norway should be among those countries.’ My specific question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: is he going to follow up that majority remark from all parties, except the government parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e616	With all possible respect, I can repeat my answer to Bård Vegar Solhjell, who answers this question: There will be voting a request decision in the Stortinget this afternoon or tonight – I do not know when you will end the meeting – with a proposal for instructions to the government on this matter. I have understood that it is not adopted. As far as government policy is concerned, I repeat: it is based on the goal of a nuclear-free world, it is based on non-proliferation, it is based on disarmament, and it is based on the humanitarian initiative taken by the Red-Greens in spring 2013. We are fully following up this initiative. The only thing we can't deal with is a ban on nuclear weapons, because it's not in line with our NATO obligation. It's still part of NATO's strategic concept.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e623	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e628	Let me first follow up from the last replicators. It is time for an initiative to get an international ban on nuclear weapons. So there's a majority in this room that says it clearly in the notation. I assume that the Foreign Minister follows up what is in the majority remarks, and I am very surprised at the answer he gives, if he does not show respect for committee comments in a position of the Foreign Affairs Committee, with the traditions we have of how things are handled in foreign policy. There are several 70 year's markers this year. In a few days it is 70 years since the UN was founded, with the raging ruins of World War II as a backstop, where the driving force was a vision of a world in which war between nations could be prevented. And, as we know, the UN Pact entered into force on 24 October of the same year. But in the meantime, the world had seen the first atomic bomb exploded. It burned 80,000 people in 7 minutes, or it was 7 seconds. The dream of reconciliation had broken apart, and the nuclear race was on. Last July 28th, Theodore van Kirk died. Who in the world was he? He was the last of 12 crew members on board Enola Gay who was the B-29 bomber who dropped the nuclear bomb over Hiroshima. He apparently never repented. This year it's been 70 years since Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The national assembly of the Labour Party was quite clear in the opinion on nuclear weapons: we need a legally binding instrument to get a ban. We also make that clear in the Committee's comments. Norway must play an active role in order to get a ban on nuclear weapons in the same way as we have done in the Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which is managed by a Secretariat in The Hague. Humanitarian law prohibits the use of weapons which do not distinguish civil from military. A ban on nuclear weapons is to respect the fundamental principles of humanitarian law. A nuclear explosion will have immediate consequences of a dimension we can hardly imagine, and it's really just the imagination that sets limits. I would ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to show the world community that Norway is still a driving force in the process of banning nuclear weapons, with a strong recommendation from the majority of the committee, although the Storting cannot impose it on the government in the form of decisions in foreign affairs. It is most unusual that the government does not follow up on what are the majority positions of the EEAS.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e645	No one in this room is or can disagree with the goal of abolishing nuclear weapons, the worst weapons of mass destruction that humans have made – as this government also continues the vision of a nuclear-free world. With reference to the last line exchange and also the post for my honoured predecessors in the pulpit, it is therefore the government's prerogative to find out how to continue working. The Committee also underlined — unanimously — in its first point of observation that Norway must continue to be an active driver in this work. The rapporteur said that the dividing lines in this room are not large, and it seems to me that the most disagreeable thing is how we are going to achieve the goal. Norway is making a long-term effort in this respect, along several tracks. It is a combination of non-proliferation and disarmament – just as our former governments have done. This government has worked actively to follow up the Oslo Conference on the Humanitarian Impact of Nuclear Weapons, also in the follow-up to the Conferences on Fact-based Approaches. Norway must work actively to strengthen the three pillars of the non-proliferation agreement: non-proliferation, peaceful use of nuclear power and disarmament. Despite the lack of consensus, the New York Supervisory Conference in April gave important signals for further work on international disarmament issues, and that is good. Those present also report a debate with renewed force, and at least that is good. Then it's important, as I see it, that you gather forces and direction. It is important for us to contribute to the most successful supervisory conference further for the NPT, i.e. also in the continuation. And as I see it: here's not a question about Norway going to work for a ban on nuclear weapons, but a question about how. In this the sitting government follows the same track as the previous one. The goal is a world free of nuclear weapons! It has been previously explained, from this pulpit, our relationship with NATO, as also Secretary-General Stoltenberg has clearly expressed it. This also shows that the political preconditions for a ban on nuclear weapons are now absent. A credible ban will require an effective non-proliferation regime, such as full and verifiable disarmament of all nuclear weapons powers, as Norway — along with the United Kingdom — has been working for several years. I am pleased that the next plenary meeting of the INNVD Partnership Initiative will be organised by Norway for the autumn. It shall include and ensure the highest possible level of confidence in future disarmament processes. It's taking small steps, and I, for my part, have great impatience, but it's important that we don't cut corners.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e672	The Christian People's Party has a clear policy against nuclear weapons. Our national defenses shall not have nuclear weapons. We're supposed to be a propellant internationally to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons, we're going to press for today's nuclear weapons powers to rust down. We're going to work long-term for a ban on nuclear weapons. Our goal is a world free of nuclear weapons. Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has done well for the involvement of the Christian People's Party, and for the premise for the further work of a value free of nuclear weapons. In the Christian People's Party's program it says: ‘KrF believes Norway needs to play an active role in international efforts to combat the proliferation of nuclear weapons and to work long-term for a ban on such weapons.’ We have demonstrated how this is in line with NATO's strategic concept, as confirmed by a co-conspirator's committee, which is that the effective removal of nuclear weapons passes through balanced and controllable disarmament. These are our premises. And based on our premises, the Christian People's Party could actually vote for proposals 1 and 2, but assuming we don't want to instruct in these kinds of things, we don't. But it's the plural comment that raises the importance of Norway being a driver and giving it a boost. I also want to remind you of what Mr. Hansen said when he referred to Johs. Second, it is true that the Storting also gives a direct commitment to the government through the call in the note, and I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to clarify: Will Norway be an active driver? When it comes to the word «forbidden», it is not a prohibition tomorrow, a prohibition should be the last step in this work, but I can't imagine a value without nuclear weapons – not even far into the future – without it being a prohibition. And I also want to ask the Foreign Minister if Norway wants to take the active driving role as such a clear plurality in this room. I would also like to thank the initiators. I must say that this debate has shown that it was necessary to clarify the role of Norway, even according to what individual representatives from the government parties have just said in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e690	There's a lot of things I'm proud of that you got along with the red-green government, but what I might be most proud of is that we were involved in getting a ban on class weapons. There was no lack of counter-representation when this point entered the Soria Moria Declaration in 2005 – that Norway should lead the work against the class weapons. However, Norway did so and three years after 3 December 2008, representatives from over a hundred countries gathered in Oslo City Hall and signed the historical document. The countries that had class weapons were not there. But why should the countries with the least ambitions be the countries that decide the pace at which all of us should go? Norway, together with civil society, was banned. History has shown that after this, this is a weapon form that has barely been used, even by countries that did not sign. Jens Stoltenberg was right in what he said in his speech in Oslo City Hall: “The world will not be the same after this, a very bestial form of weapons will be destroyed and banned” – we are involved in changing the world. The red-green government dared to go ahead. That's how we made change. It was also true in the work against nuclear weapons. It was Joans Gahr Støre and Espen Barth Eide who invited them to the conference to look at the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons. This is what has led the humanitarian initiative that more and more countries are gathering around. Since then, both Norway and Sweden have changed the government. The change of government has made us switch positions. Now Margot Wallström and the Swedes are showing the way. The leading role Norway had, no longer has Børge Burnde on its agenda. I think it was a pretty revealing round we had in the line change here instead. We could read yesterday at the NRK opinion that the new Vice-Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee, i.e. one of the leading government parties here in the Chamber, Tybring-Gjedde, believes that nuclear weapons create stability. No, nuclear weapons do not create a more stable world. 70 years after Hiroshima and Nagasaki, we know too much about what terrible scenarios nuclear weapons can lead to. A world without nuclear weapons is a safer world. That's of course what everyone's saying, it's easy to share a vision of a nuclear-free world. But can you imagine that you'll ever get there, if it's not banned? And can it be forbidden, if no one starts to forbid it? The Labour Party and a majority in Stortinget believe that Norway should take the lead in this work. It's not the opposition that wants to change the Norwegian line, it's the government that does. It is the government that so far shows a historically little ambitious line. We ask the government to note that in this case they have a majority against them. Everyone other than the Right and the Advance Party says clearly from here. Of course, we expect the government to follow up on this majority and take on a leading role in its efforts to ban nuclear weapons. It is to continue our historic heritage, as it was decided when nuclear weapons were not to be placed on Norwegian soil – or our important contribution to the conventions against land mines and class weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e704	I'm a little surprised that arguments around the humanitarian initiative are used as an argument that there has been a shift in Norwegian policy. The Council of State has explicitly stated that it is not. Then I have to comment on Rotevatn, who made a point out that I mentioned that the Norwegian consensus line and the broad consensus we have had in this room for many, many years now had been unbalanced. Yeah, that's actually it. And with all due respect for those who use the bans on class weapons and chemical weapons as an argument; this has a completely different security policy effect, and I don't think it can be compared. Then I'm a little surprised that the main right-wing argument to go for a ban, namely our security Achilles heel, NATO, is also trivialized by parties that are NATO members. I am also surprised that you take Stoltenberg as income for this. I quoted Stoltenberg in my first post, but I did not quote everything. I'd like to take the rest as well: ‘NATO’s strategy concept included US President Barack Obama’s vision of a nuclear-free world, according to Stoltenberg. But at the same time it is assumed that NATO must have nuclear weapons ‘as long as there are nuclear weapons in the world’ and that NATO will build its deterrent strategy on this, he says.’ I have been elected as the leader of the parliamentarians for the NATO General Assembly. If a ban were to be adopted here, I had to raise this proposal in the context that we in NATO are discussing this issue. I think that would be very little wise with regard to the support of the Alliance. Let me illustrate this. We were at the plenary session in The Hague, where questions were raised from England about Norway could be NATO member and at the same time have a ban on nuclear weapons in Norwegian ports in peacetime, which we of course defended. But this gives an image of the uncertainty that can be created when we go across NATO's strategic concept. Or how do the Central Party and the Left, which are NATO members, think that Norway is going to act in NATO with such a decision? In the Right, we're not less concerned with reducing the nuclear threat than other parties in this room, but we're concerned with our credibility and total dependence on NATO at an aggression in the North.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e718	It has been interesting to follow this debate, but also discouraging, because until recently we have had a common view of foreign and defence policy in this country that it is a great value for a small country – which is more than a larger country has given its surroundings – that there can be some consensus on the broad lines of foreign and security policy. What I have heard in this debate are new notes from the Workers' Party, because they also do not argue against the reasoning offered to them by known anti-NATO parties such as SV and others. But then you might be glad that this majority doesn't agree with itself either, because the representative Hansen just said that ban was it if you had first negotiated an all-embracing universal agreement and there was someone who broke it – then you could talk about prohibition. But it was clear from other speeches that someone meant that we were going to establish a principle decision on prohibition, and then by the power of the example, one would gradually get all states to respect this. Then other agreements are used as an example. There are two different approaches. And if I've misunderstood something, I would urge the representative Hansen to go to the pulpit and correct my opinion, for the representative Hansen's opinion is, after all, somewhat more comforting, considering that they have relied on being in a sea of hope against the government parties. So it's that nuclear weapons aren't a suitable battlefield weapon, that's probably why it's not used. But it is also not seen that a nuclear guarantee, on which our NATO alliance is based, has also worked against the use of conventional weapons. It is precisely this guarantee that has made conventional weapons into unsuitable battlefield weapons for others. I also demand the realism of some of the speakers, who think you can discuss only one weapon form and one weapon technology, without seeing it in connection with the conventional weapons. Because it's clear that if you want to go back to the situation before August 6, 1945, we can see what historical experience we have with balance of power, based on conventional weapons. Then the question is, is this room then willing to use 5 pst? of GDP in building up an ordinary conventional defence and making Norway a frontline country in any conventional conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e727	The humanitarian initiative is young and was launched to produce the humanitarian consequences, but from the outset, a part of the discussion was banned. Let me give you a few examples: in 2010, for example, Norway, under the red-green government, at an international disarmament conference: «We believe it could be possible to develop norms against the use of nuclear weapons, and even outlaw them, without a consensus decision, [[...]] We repeated it at an NPT conference in 2012: «All states must intensify their efforts to outlaw nuclear weapons and offer a world free of nuclear weapons.» In Norway, too, politicians raised this issue. But what is true is that there was nothing in the Oslo Declaration – the question of prohibition came very precisely from the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the conference in Vienna, and is now the so-called Humanitarian Pledge. So it's true that the question of prohibition is quite new in that way, and that saying that one is unanimous or disagrees with the previous government, actually doesn't say anything about it. That's why it's brought into the Storting through a proposal now, and that's why it's important to know if the government will follow it up. So it's a plural comment, quoted here many times, where the nucleus is that the plural number. ‘... Norway has to play an active role in international efforts to combat the proliferation of nuclear weapons and to work long-term for a ban on such weapons’. I cannot understand the last reply from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He refused to answer yes or no, but it is difficult to understand it in other ways than the representative Nybakk understood it as, that he did not actually intend to follow up what is in that remark. He continues to tell us that the government has not intended to work for a ban, as it says in that remark. It is true that the government has a prerogative, as it is called, a primacy, a freedom of action, in foreign policy, but it is not right that it means that the government can do what they want in foreign policy. Parliamentarism applies in all fields of policy, but it does not apply in the field of foreign policy other than in other fields. So there is a number of examples in the history of proposals, committee comments, that a government has to adapt to the majority of foreign policy. I want to say that it is alarming if they do not, but I also have to ask the question of the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party, because I have a great understanding of a non-voting vote for a proposal, but if the government will not follow up on what has multiples in the Grand Chamber, will it not have any consequences for the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party? Is that how the government says it applies to the same thing? Or do they also mean that what the plural actually stands for must apply? I thought the Foreign Minister had to clarify his point of view, but I also thought the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party had to decide whether there would be consequences if the government did not follow a plurality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e749	This debate has been marked by some representatives – what I should say – almost instructive and self-evident. We've had some idealists and we've had some moralists, but they've had it in common that they're absolutely sure that the ban on nuclear weapons is the way to go, and that the ban on nuclear weapons will create a safer world. It's a question of thinking, am I completely sure of that? Should it be a little difficult to verify that all countries are removing all weapons? Is it possible to inspect anywhere? Do you really get access to absolutely everything Iran has? Is that relevant? To the representative Hareide, will he fight for Israel to give up its nuclear weapons? Does it create a safer Middle East? Does it create a safer Israel? I'm not sure about it, but here in the hall, people are sure of it. And not enough – everyone claims that Norway should have a driving role. We're going to be international leaders. Can someone tell me what we're not going to be propelling, what we're not going to lead into? Perhaps it is not the task of Norway — with five million inhabitants in a very large world — to be the one who teaches, is the driving force and tells everyone else what is best, and what is morally right. Other countries, some major countries, perhaps countries that have nuclear weapons, or countries that want nuclear weapons on their soil – despite all five NATO countries that have placed them on their soil – may want them to be there because they feel safer. In fact, I think that sitting here in this room and discussing something to judge us over absolutely every other country is unreasonable. Then it's Hiroshima and Nagasaki, who the representative Marit Nybakk was in and talked about. She said there were 100,000 people killed. It was terrible – yes, even the Advance Party thought it was terrible. But then you've found out that maybe hundreds of thousands of lives were saved because of those bombs. At that time, the United States had already lost 500,000 men — young men — in World War II. And the war continued long after it was over in Europe – in Asia, in Japan, and in the United States. The war might have remained for many more years without this. But it was just as horrible. I repeat: it was terrible – it was terrible, but perhaps fewer lives were lost.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e760	It seems that – from some of the figures of the government parties – if we adopt a ban today, when the majority, in the form of a note, asks the government to work and initiate, there will be work for a ban internationally. I want to show that we in Norway have previously talked about making nuclear weapons illegal. I would like to refer to what the representative Solhjell said about the disarmament conference in 2011, when the Norwegian side went so far as to say that it was thought it would be possible to develop standards and instruments against the use of nuclear weapons, even to make them illegal, without a consensus decision, etc. I think we might stop saying that the issue of ban is something that has emerged in 2015. We have to repeat once again that a majority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy is in order for us to have a legally binding instrument in order to get a ban. I assume that the Minister for Foreign Affairs respects the majority of the population in this case. I would like to point out the tradition and rules of foreign policy, that there are comments to show what the majority of the population believes in foreign policy issues, and that the government must, of course, take this into account, even though it is the government that operates foreign policy and has a prerogative in foreign policy. I think it is unwise for him not to respect a majority remark in this matter. Then I just have to comment on Halleraker. We very often agree on foreign policy issues. I sat in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly for eight years, and we absolutely took up nuclear disarmament. We also discussed getting into a convention against nuclear weapons, which is really the same as a ban. It's probably just to refer to the convention we have that regulates chemical weapons, where one has a secretariat in The Hague that ensures that this convention and this ban on the use of chemical weapons – and against chemical weapons in general – is respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e769	I think this debate shows that the Foreign Minister is struggling more with his own than I think he is getting an understanding from our allies. The articles from both Halleraker and – not least – from Tybring-Gjedde give the impression that the majority is now asking, are that from tomorrow we should have banned nuclear weapons and expect our allies to remove them. Even the proposal of the SV, the Left and the Center parties cannot be understood as such, asking the government to work for an international binding agreement prohibiting nuclear weapons. I think the example that Halleraker pointed out that Norway agreed early that we do not want nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil, and nevertheless we are considered a good ally in NATO, shows that it is possible to gain understanding of Norwegian positions. Halleraker said in his speech that Norway cannot lead a work to fulfill what is enshrined in NATO’s strategy, namely to make a vision of a world without nuclear weapons a reality. Of course Norway can do that. But I agree that it lays down certain frameworks for how we can do that. What is the majority's view, expressed here in a majority opinion, which is referred to many times, is well within that framework. You talk about a ‘balanced’ process, you have to connect it to disarmament, and you have to have the ‘long-term goal of creating a legal framework’. It's incomprehensible that this would undermine our position in NATO. If the term ‘prohibition’ was not used explicitly in the humanitarian initiative taken at the Oslo Conference, it is used, as other speakers have shown, by Norway in other contexts internationally. It's completely incomprehensible to me that it's going to create so big waves, because it's hard to imagine having a legal framework that's going to give us a world without nuclear weapons, without a ban on nuclear weapons. I assume that the Foreign Minister follows up what is the majority view of the Storting in a matter like this. It's in line with what's a good tradition in foreign policy, and it's well anchored, as I referred to in my first post, that the Stortinge in this kind of case expresses itself through comments and not by decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e780	It has been an interesting debate to follow in the hall today. The debate has also shown that there is a broad majority here in the Chamber who have the same intentions, who strongly want the government to work – and take a leading role – in order for us to have a disarmament and in the long term a ban on nuclear weapons. There is not a new line in Norwegian foreign policy, as several representatives have said. Norway has been calling for this before, both in 2011 and 2012, both on its own and in joint deployments with other countries in 2012, where one said that ‘all States must step up their efforts to ban nuclear weapons and achieve a world free of nuclear weapons’. Obviously it can't be said, and I'm surprised that it's made as a line that the red-greens weren't behind, because of course we did. There was a line also in the red-green government with the current NATO head as prime minister, and I can't remember that it was a problem once that Norway had that line in the red-green government. The representative Tybring-Gjedde called us ‘complaining’, ‘self-proprietary’ and used various other characteristics. I will refrain from commenting on it – in the West we say that on its own we know another. But it must be allowed to have different points of view – and respect for different points of view. I respect that Tybring-Gjedde has a different stand and a different view than me. That is what I thought we should respect very much in this Chamber. Halleraker says that it would be difficult for the NATO Parliamentary Assembly if Norway were to have a leading role and to speak on it. Well, I'm sitting with Halleraker at some of those meetings, not most of them. I can't see that it's going to be harder than when Norway took the initiative to get rid of class weapons and landmines. Then Norway took a leading role. It was also controversial at first – it wasn't after all, but it was at first. But we showed courage and dare to be a nation of peace and dare to be a nation that showed its way – together with others. And there are actually 108 countries that now have signed Austrian Pledge, the successor to it, and there are many that are going to come. But my question now, which everyone is asking here in the Chamber, is, does the answer from the Foreign Minister and the Government's representatives today mean that the government will not work for a ban on nuclear weapons? That should be answered during the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e791	I just want to have the opportunity to comment on the post by the representative Hansen, who once again stated that it was almost just a matter of choice of words when it was the approach to achieve what I think most people can end up doing in this room, that it would be fine if the nuclear weapon played a less important role. It's just that there's a difference, as the representative Hansen outlined in his statement, working for a successful international agreement to build up nuclear weapons, because if all countries sign it, they will of course also have signed on enforcement mechanisms, inspection regimes and other. The alternative, which has been presented by others in the so-called majority, who are not a majority in the process of scrutiny, is to be a propellant, and then one should almost establish a commitment, and then one hopes to establish at least an international moral pressure which means that those who have not acceded to the Treaty or to the agreements will be able to stand out. There is little imagination to understand the strategic benefits of the countries — and the types of countries — that would avoid what else could be achieved by a treaty law, where more internal and in-depth enforcement mechanisms, inspection and consequences could also have been discussed. So there's the difference in substance, the difference in quality, on these two approaches. That's why in my first post I found reason to say that it was at least comforting that the Workers' Party saw separately the first solution, and not a majority solution that can really only be assumed to be respected by democratic countries, which are under the control of the people's will. We have some experience from the conventional age, that is, the age when great international wars were fought with conventional weapons. It was also not a particularly wanted state, and I have to say that I am calling for an analysis from those who now believe that one can discuss the absence of a nuclear weapon guarantee without this having consequences for our own planning, our own conventional planning. We must then restore an innovation defence, we must have a general duty of protection without exception, we must be willing to use far more of the country's resources for the normal production of weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e800	Tetzschner said in his first post that he was very surprised that we were no longer in agreement with this question. Well, the disagreement may be with the government parties that stand for in this room. It's the right hand side, with the Advance Party and the Right hand side standing alone. They are outside the comment that Norway will work for this. When we hear representatives in this room, not least Tybring-Gjedde, almost defend the use of nuclear weapons and at least think that Norway should not be a driver, yes, then it really shows for real that it is the government parties that stand here for a line change. Several refer to our NATO commitments. I think it's an interesting debate, and that's something you should consider in this debate, how Norway as a NATO country can work for a ban on nuclear weapons. But I think it's going to be a very one-sided representation of the government parties, as if it's almost a one-sided NATO policy on nuclear weapons. The truth is that there is a terrible difference of policy in NATO countries about the view of nuclear weapons. You have Norway on one side, which says that nuclear weapons are illegal on Norwegian soil, and then you have, for example, France, which has operated a test explosion. Halleraker asked if he had to travel this debate in NATO, almost with fear of what the Stortinge meant. Well, I really believe that Halleraker should raise this debate in NATO. This is a debate that belongs in NATO, at least for those who believe that it is our NATO obligations that make it impossible for us to work for a ban on our own. I also assume that there is something the Minister for Foreign Affairs is doing. Jonas Gahr Støre, when he was Minister of Foreign Affairs, said from this pulpit that he worked systematically to reduce the importance of nuclear weapons within NATO. This should also be done by our new foreign minister, and he should also ally himself with NATO countries which have positions similar to those of Norway. We know that e.g. The Netherlands, the Dutch Parliament, has been in favour of a ban on nuclear weapons. So finally, there are many, not least the last speakers, Michael Tetzschner, who talk about everything we had to do if there was a ban on nuclear weapons, and all the other areas we had to rust up. Well, I disagree with that. I believe that the force of nuclear weapons means that it's not really that deterrent either. For whatever kind of attack Norway, or our allies, had been exposed to, I thought it was wrong to use nuclear weapons as a response. I can't imagine what kind of scenario a Norwegian politician would think that nuclear weapons could be a proper tool, from any country in the world. In the end, I would like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs again if he will follow up on what a majority of the Stortinge said: He indicated that he did not think a decision would be taken later today. No, that's true. But if that's how the Foreign Minister wants to conduct foreign policy, then there's a whole new way in which the Storting should be involved. At least he should have prepared it. He knows as an experienced politician that what the Foreign Affairs Committee writes in its comments is applicable... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e813	Time's up. Øyvind Halleraker has had twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e818	I think we should be careful not to attribute motives we don't have, and to quote each other correctly. When I drew up the incident in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, it was just an expression of doubt, although we in this Chamber agree, of course, that we should not have nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil in peacetime. And of course I didn't say that we wouldn't support the work against a world free of nuclear weapons. That's exactly the way we have to go, that's by working for this along the lines that NATO draws up in its strategic concept. But to go in for a ban today, we can't. Then the representative of Aukust says that we cannot debate this in NATO. Of course we can, but we cannot propose a ban in NATO on behalf of this Parliament. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e824	The board Vegar Solhjell has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e827	On behalf of the proposers, I can say that the aim of the proposal was not to send Øyvind Halleraker to NATO to propose this, although I think it might be an entertaining meeting to attend. This debate shows that there is a number in Stortinget that wants – point one – that Norway should be a driver of disarmament and in the work of a ban. The debate shows – point two – that many representatives of the Right and the Progress Party, the Foreign Minister apart from it, argue with force and great commitment to it and with quite strong conflicting statements. I believe that the representative Hansen's reference to who is the biggest problem of our allies and some of the representatives was precise. Most importantly, however, the debate shows that the Foreign Minister – openly, I would say – has not intended to follow up on the comment that has been quoted here a number of times, on a ban. It is a pity, because Norway is now going from being a leader to being less significant in the work against nuclear weapons, but it is also raising the issue of parliamentaryism actually in the foreign policy, with greater force.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e834	This debate started with representatives from most parties saying that one here agrees on the goal, and then we have a discussion about the way to the goal. That's the way it is in many political matters, and I respect that. But after the debate is over, I'm a little bit unsure if we're actually some about the goal. I am not uncertain on the basis of what the Foreign Minister has said on behalf of the government, and that is good. But when it comes to what some representatives from the government party say – one thing is that the representative Tybrung-Gedde is up and holding close to a moral defense not only for having nuclear weapons but even for using them, but also when the representative Tetzschner, who had many good points, still goes into a reasoning about how an atomic-free value would actually be, and suggests more conflict and conventional use of weapons, I become more uncertain. So if someone wanted to clarify that uncertainty, it would be useful. I don't want us to add any other arguments or make conflicts bigger than they are. Then I think I'll end it and say that I don't see this debate or this attitude as a violation of the tradition we have in foreign policy in Norway, or that there are unsurpassed contradictions here. But then I also assume that we also do not break another important tradition, and that is that the government follows the will expressed by the majority of the population through comments and proposals for decisions in the committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e841	I think it is important that, at the end of this debate, we list the things I think there is a broad consensus on. The government – as I also underlined in my post – will continue to be a driver of international disarmament work. We will follow up the important humanitarian initiative taken by the previous government in the spring of 2013. At the NPT conference in New York in ours, we really saw the results of this important humanitarian initiative. Of course, the discussion under the NPT was linked to non-proliferation, disarmament – i.e. fewer nuclear weapons – and the commercial use of nuclear power. But it had an additional dimension that is important, and which I understand is also widely agreed, for which there is a clear majority in the committee, who want us to be a driving force to show and to bring about the totally, totally unacceptable humanitarian consequences of using nuclear weapons. And what was the idea behind it? Well, it's actually that using nuclear weapons is not possible to distinguish between those who are contentious and those who are civil, and so it's not in line with international humanitarian law. That was the background to the initiative that was taken. I think those who have heard me argue about this, both internationally and at home, understand that this government will also be a driver for us to realize a vision of a world without nuclear weapons. Then I think it's sad if it's left a feeling through what I've said, that we've changed our position, that we're no longer going to lead. No, we have not changed our position, we stand on what was in the declaration that came in Oslo in the spring of 2013. We have followed that with full energy, because this is important, in addition to other initiatives that we have also taken, among other things. to verify that nuclear disarmament actually occurs. We also take initiatives in the non-proliferation field that are significant. Of course, I have noticed what the members of the Committee have said, I note all the majority comments and see how Norway can follow this up in such a way that it does not conflict with other international commitments and NATO membership. So I think what I'm experiencing is most important, not least for the majority, is knowing that we're going to continue to be a driver of the humanitarian initiative in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e850	Michael Tetzschner has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e853	There was a call from the representative Rotevatn to get a clarification, and he will get it. Just so it is said that nuclear weapons are an invention that has not brought mankind forward. But when it is there as a reality, and it is part of strategic considerations such as: Our defense is based on, and which actually also has the advantage that we are not using it in peacetime, or not stationing it in peacetime, on the basis of self-imposed constraints, and we can also record that it has taken up the pressure in terms of conventional burdens that Norway would otherwise have, that is, the burden of building an alternative, conventional defence, so it is clear that this violent fixation against something that would then be morally unacceptable that we have to accept as part of the building blocks of the NATO alliance's strategic planning, this overstatement, must not happen without having an international agreement that can also reduce conventional weapons. Otherwise we go back to what was military technology before August 6, 1945, and there we also have some historical experience to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e858	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e872	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e879	First, thank you to the Committee for good cooperation and for an effective process during the comitology of this matter. I refer to the setting. There's been one proposal from the Center Party and SV. Together with 50 other members of the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, Norway participates in the negotiations for a Multi-State Agreement on Trade in Services, TISA – Trade in Services Agreement. TISA negotiations are a consequence of the lack of progress in WTO negotiations, which has been locked down since 2008. At the WTO Ministerial Conference in 2011, Member States opened up new ways of bringing the negotiations forward, and in December 2012, countries agreed on a framework for negotiations. The objective is a better international framework for trade in services, in an agreement that can reach such broad agreement that it can become part of the WTO framework when more and more members join. TISA is therefore based on the current WTO Trade in Services Agreement, GATS – General Agreement on Trade in Services. The agreement shall also consider in particular how to take account of MUL countries, i.e. the least developed countries. The decision to participate in the TISA negotiations was taken by the Stoltenberg II Government in spring 2013. The majority of the Committee points out that the framework for TISA is unchanged. The Government confirmed Norway’s continued participation in November 2013 and the negotiating mandate contained in the opening offer has remained unchanged since the start of the negotiations. The basis for the decision, with senior positions, was published on 17 March of this year. The majority of the Committee considers it important that the government attaches great importance to the transparency of these negotiations, in other international processes in which it participates on behalf of Norway. Norway is therefore one of the few countries that have published a separate market access offer. The desire for maximum transparency around international negotiations needs to be balanced against other key considerations in order for Norway to achieve the best possible results in the negotiations and with the relations with the other countries. The majority of the Committee points out that, in line with the corresponding international negotiations, the TISA negotiations themselves take place in confidentiality. At the start of the TISA negotiations, it was precisely this, that negotiations were to take place in confidentiality, made clear as a pre-requisite between the parties. It would therefore, in the view of the majority of the Committee, be contrary to this premise that the government should be forced to publish documents showing the positions and proposals of other parties. Something like this would be unfortunate for Norway's reputation as a negotiating nation. Nevertheless, the majority believe that the government is showing so much transparency about the process, and about Norwegian negotiating positions, which it is possible to do without simultaneously breaking the principle of confidentiality. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out in his letter to the Committee and to which the majority of the Committee also refers, there are already established channels to inform the Storting about ongoing negotiation processes. These may be used if further disclosures are requested, if necessary in confidentiality. The final outcome of the negotiation, i.e. the agreement itself, will be submitted to the Stortinget for consent to ratification. The majority of the Committee then meets an analysis of the impact of the agreement. Otherwise, I guess the minority will explain their vision. Norway already has an open market for services where foreign services are well on the way to ensuring non-discriminatory access. An important aspect of the TISA Agreement is to make other countries put on an equivalent level of transparency to that already existing in Norway through current legislation. TISA, unlike the EEA, does not entail harmonisation of legislation. National regulations in e.g. HMS, environmental protection requirements, qualification requirements and employee rights will not be challenged by a TISA agreement. Today's 51 TISA participants represent approx. 70 pst. of the world's services market, intended for approx. 4,000 B.C.E. dollar. Therefore, it is obvious that the TISA negotiations are important for Norway. Norway has a clear interest in the best possible agreement that ensures predictability, level playing rules and more open markets for our exports of services. In that case, we must continue to act as a serious and predictable negotiating partner, which takes best care of Norwegian interests, and which ensures the fulfilment of the mutual obligations of trust and confidentiality contained in these kinds of negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e911	Norwegian participation in the negotiations for a multi-State agreement on trade in services, the TISA negotiations, was prepared under the Stoltenberg II Government. An agreement on services further developing the WTO Agreement on trade in services is important for Norway. It is important because service exports are increasingly important for Norwegian exports and thus for employment and value creation. This applies in particular to shipping and maritime services, the energy cluster, maritime insurance and telecoms. Service exports represent a total of 45 pst. of Norwegian exports without oil and gas. Therefore, Norway has a clear interest in an agreement that will ensure predictable and equal playing rules based on non-discrimination and more open markets for our service exports. While the Norwegian service market is more open than most countries, Norwegian companies meet several closed doors. Today's 51 TISA participants represent 70 pst. of the world's services market, estimated at 4000 billion. dollar. TISA negotiations are based on the WTO Service Agreement, of which Norway has been part since 1995. Through this agreement, we already have extensive obligations to grant non-discriminatory market access. The debate on TISA gives the impression that the Norwegian service market is closed to non-residents, and that the international trade agreement agency we are now involved in is completely dissolved, which is therefore wrong. The aim of a TISA agreement for us must be to give Norwegian service companies more predictable access to important markets. Norway has made exemptions in its opening offer for services that we in Norway provide through the public sector, such as hospital services, public education, social welfare services and other services sectors where we want to maintain political space. It also applies to services such as the retail sale of alcohol and tobacco, to take a few examples. This does not mean that in these sectors — even today — there cannot be foreign enterprises and owners. Municipalities have used private – Norwegian and foreign – to operate hospitals. A significant part of our kindergartens are run by the private. However, the point with the exception of these service areas in a TISA agreement is that this will not prevent the return of such services to public operation if a new majority in a municipality so wishes. The obligations of a TISA must be that in case we do not discriminate between Norwegian private enterprises and foreign private enterprises. Equal treatment must be essential. The working party assumes that a TISA agreement will not impose either privatisation, deregulation or outsourcing of any public service at national or local level. We will not be able to support an agreement that would threaten our political control and governance of public services and welfare services. It is also necessary to distinguish between opening service areas to foreign service providers and regulating this area. A TISA agreement cannot limit the ability of countries to regulate matters such as consumer protection, health, safety and the environment or employee rights. However, the requirement that the regulation does not discriminate between Norwegian and foreign companies in such a way that Norwegian companies are favoured is the same principle as the EEA Agreement. In the context of the inclusion of the Services Directive in the EEA Agreement, we had a thorough debate on the impact this could have on the Norwegian service market, for example. on our ability to maintain official control of public services. Market access a TISA agreement opens up, will, as far as I understand, be less than what the EEA Agreement does in this area. Then we have the mysterious principle of "freeze and rattle". As I understand this, it is about being able to report that we want to maintain a regulation in an area that discriminates against Norwegian and foreign service providers, for example. a requirement to keep accounting documents for 10 years in Norwegian soil, a competitive advantage for Norwegian accounting companies. We can keep that by freezing this requirement. But if we later cancel it, it cannot be reintroduced, because it then introduces a anti-competitive provision. We have made it clear from the Labour Party that if the government finds out anything other than what it says so far, that it does not intend to change the opening offer in terms of the sectors with which we have traditionally had strong political governance, yes, it cannot count on our support for an agreement when it comes to treatment in the UK. In the case of secrecy, it is therefore known that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has used the trade policy consultation group used in the WTO negotiations. There are business people, representatives of LO and trade movement, etc., and the opening offer is out. But I think the government is wise to have as open a line as possible in these negotiations, and also to involve the Storting when the negotiations evolve so that it becomes relevant to assess our positions. Then the government has to make sure that it does not move across or beyond what an overall majority here can accept.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e949	This matter is about one thing, but perhaps you should take the debate on what you want in relation to any agreement and how it should be available. We know little about it before it might be on the table. But then I must be allowed to say without shocking anyone – I will correct it later – that I fully agree with the proposers when I read the position and comments, where it says: ‘These members point to the seriousness and awareness of the absence of a written mandate. These members stress that without a clear delimitation in the space of action towards the bureaucrats negotiating on Norway's behalf, the government conferred too much power on the process on the Agency.» I totally agree, if that were the facts. It is a little interesting to refer to the position and what is said there, because the proposers have actually supported the mandate. It was developed under the red-green, and was put on the table in 2013. There are no changes on it. In fact, the Workers’ Party, together with the SV and the Centre proposers, joins a majority comment stating that ‘the negotiating mandate contained in the opening offer has not changed since the start of the negotiation’. And that's why I'm not so worried. But, of course, there is no doubt that the TISA negotiations themselves are extremely important, and there is no doubt that when an agreement is in place, it will be very important for Norway. But I also believe, as other speakers have said, that such an agreement should also be based on national regulation, and that the main objective is to have access to a market, but that now, in principle, one is more concerned with achieving a level playing field, a level playing field, i.e. equal treatment. However, what goes on in the provision of services in Norway should be regulated nationally in this respect. So it's like I'm a strong fan of maximum transparency, and I can't help but interpret both the setting and the debate so that it's actually more openness now than it's ever been in relation to this kind of process. It is also important to refer to the majority comment, where the majority says that ‘the size is informed of ongoing negotiation processes through established channels and indicates that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has offered to make further presentations, if necessary in confidence, if the Storting or the competent committee so wishes’, and then I think that it can be used to a much greater extent. It's an important debate to take for Stortinget. What will greater transparency about this type of negotiation, along the way in the negotiations, mean for the final outcome? What will be the impact on Norway’s influence on any agreement if the debate is to be transparent in relation to the demands and discussions that are taking place in the negotiations? I am always sceptical about leaving these kinds of negotiations to bureaucrats and the civil service. It is reflected in all the debates I participate in and in the policies I stand for. In this case, however, I have full confidence that the process is proceeding in such a way that Norwegian interests and Norwegian consumers' interests are being protected in the best possible way. Of course, we do not know the final answer until the agreement is on the table, and that is when the Progress Party must also assess whether this is good enough or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e967	It made a lot of sense in the article for Per Sandberg. The only thing I want to say is that we have a very good office, which we can have great confidence in, even in the kind of negotiations that the TISA negotiations are. It was the Stoltenberg II Government that intended Norway to participate in the negotiations for a new agreement on trade in services, TISA. So the sitting government has followed up on this. I am pleased that a consensus committee underlines the importance of the government showing as much openness about the process and about Norwegian negotiating positions as possible, without breaking the principle that the negotiations themselves should be credible. And that's why there's a plurality that thinks that the proposal of the Central Party and the UK should not be adopted, as it would be unfortunate for Norway's reputation as a negotiating nation if the government were to publish the probable negotiating drafts that currently exist, in the TISA negotiations. The Christian People's Party will follow the negotiations carefully – and with a good portion of scepticism. A challenge with TISA is that it is not based on the WTO but on a smaller group of countries. Trade gains are highest when most countries participate, as in the WTO. For Norway, the multilateral trading system through the WTO is the cornerstone of Norwegian trade policy. It is particularly important for small and medium-sized trading nations that the WTO strengthens its role as the main venue for the development of driving rules for international trade, both for goods and for services. In this sense, trade agreements such as TISA can be a challenge, because they can undermine the role of the WTO and make international trade legislation many different. There is broad consensus that open trade is a source of added value among the participating countries, but much of the potential has been tapped by the fact that customs barriers have been severely reduced since the Second World War. What is now left is, among other things. regulatory barriers to trade in services. However, it is not obvious that the answer is to remove all such regulatory barriers, for example. because it can limit the national space for action to regulate key societal areas such as education, health, banks and financial institutions. Let me give you an example: in Norway it has been a priority that we have had stricter banking regulation than many other countries since the banking crisis in the early 1990s. There was a clear advantage in meeting the financial crisis recently. This possibility of developing a sound, professionally based financial stability policy on a national basis must never be allowed to happen. Nor must we allow our own Norwegian welfare model or our own democratic bodies to be undermined or limited in a way that benefits large multinationals and goes beyond the community. The Christian People's Party greatly appreciates all initiatives that contribute to openness and debate on these issues. We see that international trade negotiations, such as TISA and TTIP, are increasingly moving into policy sensitive areas dealing with the national space for action to regulate important areas of society. That is why the Christian People's Party is open so that the Stortinget can have a stronger role in the future in discussing and giving seniority to Norway's priorities in such negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e984	Last week, the biggest leak of negotiating documents ever came from the controversial TISA negotiations. The leak shows how bad the secrecy of the negotiations is. The European Federation of Public Service Unions – i.e. the European Union for the Services sector – says that TISA will limit its right to regulate higher standards of interest in the population, in climate, health, education, waste management and power plants. It becomes more difficult to regulate the financial industry, the energy sector, telecommunications and cross-border data flows. And at a time when many countries are trying to get to the fences after the financial crisis, it will be harder to regulate that sector – the financial sector. It's not my words, it's the words of one of the big trade unions that maybe at least the Labour Party should listen a little bit closer. The free trade agreement for trade in services – the TISA agreement – is being negotiated today. The government is an active driver, probably to ensure that privatisation and postponing services in Norway are speeding up and profiting from private companies. I have asked many questions to the Council of State, but received little meaningful answers. The last time I asked this question, can the Council of State give me one example of a company that has been denied market access to any of the TISA countries, a market access they will now get through TISA, or a new country we will have access to, to which we do not have today? This is the question, according to the plural here today. If the government practises openness, why won't the Foreign Minister answer my questions? Time and energy are used to write answers as coverts, rather than information. Complaints spokesperson Agdestein, from the Right, said in his post that there will be no follow-up to standards within different fields. Is that right? I quote the government's own big message, from Chapter 10, on openness in trade policy: ‘The core areas of the negotiations move from customs issues and border management to border relations, including regulation, standards and support schemes’. This is one of the greatest questions of our time. One may wonder why no more representatives show greater interest in it. Why has no other party asked the Foreign Minister about the agreement? Why did the Workers' Party adopt ‘clear requirements’ for the TISA agreement at its national meeting, when they do not show any real interest in what is in the agreement today? One can certainly wonder why this happens. We are now meeting much of the same form of argument about the TISA agreement that we met in the debate before signing the EEA Agreement – a combination of ridicule and discretion. Before the EEA agreement we received guarantees: Norwegian labour rules would not be affected. A differentiated employer's fee was not threatened in any way. The concession laws for hydropower were not relevant for the EEA. Nor did the monopoly on imports into the wine monopoly have anything to do with the EEA. Regulations of foreign ownership in the financial sector in Norway could well govern as we would. 100 pst. By lifting I now frame up, is broken. Has any of those who gave these guarantees ever taken responsibility for it afterwards? The answer is no. Today, we hear representatives from the same parties offering guarantees of public control of the service market after the introduction of a TISA agreement. The EEA debate started too late. The consequences of the agreement had not been sufficiently apparent. We cannot let that happen again. The representatives who reject the submission of the TISA framework, today, assume a great responsibility. They take responsibility for their involvement in, and understand, all possible consequences of, the TISA agreement when it is presented – and probably with a time limit for decisions in the Stortinget. As a representative, I have a promise to the Norwegian people: No matter how many laws on TISA or attempts to ridicule and counter-representatives we meet, the Center Party will work hard to turn every stone. Norway should no longer feel that we give national sovereignty without having a full overview of the consequences of what we do. Even if our presentation is voted down today, we won't give it to us. There will be more questions. We're going to go to the bottom of this, the same amount of work it takes. It does not take much work to be able to make a general post here today that trade is important. Everyone knows that trade has ours and is positive for Norway. But going from this to saying that if one is for trade, one must also be for the TISA agreement, is a fallacy. Those who try to give an impression of this must at least be aware of which companies are now getting more market access where the former ones met bars. I have asked before, and I ask again: show me the Norwegian companies that are now allowed to leave where they are otherwise excluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1013	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1016	I would like to address the proposal that the Centre Party and SV have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1021	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1024	International trade has potential for great benefits for those involved in it. If he is well regulated, he can benefit all, including those who initially face challenges. Taking into account the environment, working conditions, etc., it can lead to considerable progress in well-being, without too many other problems. For Norway, entering into a major service debate is probably a smaller challenge for the private service provision in many other countries, since we have already liberalised significant parts of our legislation there. But the TISA agreement, which is now being negotiated, has a number of other problems in it than that. First of all, there is no multilateral – which many have been involved in – that could undermine multilateral structures that are already under pressure. Secondly, it is approx. 50 countries, including EU countries – 70 p.m. by world trade – which is now negotiating. In reality, it's the way to reach an agreement here, he'll be almost binding on the rest of the world. It would be almost impossible to stand outside – and at least impossible to negotiate about him. In particular, there will be challenges for some developing countries. One also introduces a number of new principles and frameworks in international trade with which we are little accustomed. One of them has been named here by the representative Hansen. More specific: I believe in Norway's part there may be a challenge when it comes to public services. The question is: is finally ‘public services’ defined here as, as we are used to in Norway, the broad spectrum of it, or – as it is now claimed by many, and as it has come leaks – is the understanding that it only applies to what is 100 pst. public, i.e. child protection, kindergarten, care, etc. fall outside because there are some private actors there? Norwegian positions are known. I have also been told now that there is a mandate, according to what the Foreign Minister has blacked out the Stortinget. Why can't we just leave it alone – we know our positions – and then wait for the result? Yes, it is because these are large and complex negotiations, which will go on for many years, with very varying interests. At some points, any agreement will certainly be a piece of non-Norwegian primary positions – something else is impossible to think about – but, most importantly, it will in reality be impossible to change. We'll get a take-it-or-leave-it to the Norwegian giant about an agreement negotiated by a number of countries with a lot of complicated balances. If we're going to influence the direction, if we're going to have a public debate on this, we're going to have to do it now, early. We need to do what the government itself calls for in European policy, namely to have a real impact by being in the process early and putting a stamp on them, not by finally getting a take-it-or-leave-it after something is agreed. It is also the case that the public debate is much better whether it comes while we can still influence the outcome, while it is still the case that whether we are going to go into something or not is a real debate – instead of coming back and just becoming a debate about yes or no to what is going on. So I just want to say that, contrary to the representative Sandberg – I notice otherwise that he is behind the government here, which is not of course in these days – I have great confidence that the government and those who negotiate on behalf of us are doing a good job. There are very good people and high levels of those from Norway. I am only busy having a clear political order from Stortinget and its clients – that there should be public political debate and political decisions at the end. That's the basic important thing. Finally, I myself have experience from international negotiations in a completely different area, namely climate negotiations. If one saw a climate debate where all reported their positions and then disappeared into space for years, without anyone knowing anything and there was only one result, it would be absolutely unmistakable. There is a continuous debate. Positions are published and are well known. Space is not open, but it's a continuous debate and process – and deep insight into what's happening, continuously. I have to say, this is a deep issue in the international trade negotiations on TISA that are currently taking place. I want to encourage the government: let it not be WikiLeaks which is the most important source of information when it comes to the negotiations ahead, let it be the government of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1042	After hearing the last two submissions, I would like to remind you that the decision that Norway should participate in the negotiations on TISA was taken by the Stoltenberg II government in the spring of 2013. The framework for TISA, on which negotiations are now based, has remained unchanged since the start-up. The government confirmed Norway’s participation in the negotiations initiated by the previous government – which was wise. This was done in connection with the submission of the Norwegian opening offer. The basis for this decision and the government’s overall positions in the negotiations were published on 17 March 2015 and are available at government.no. This is the current Norwegian mandate for the negotiations, to which everyone must relate. As many have experienced, Norway is a commercial nation. Trade agreements are an opportunity to shape globalisation through international cooperation. Trade agreements contribute to both Norwegian and global value creation. A modern agreement on trade in services is good for Norway, provided it is properly structured. We have a lot to gain from an agreement that ensures that other countries open up to foreign actors, as we already do in Norway. This is what TISA is about, and was also the background for the previous government making Norway part of these negotiations between 51 countries. The service industries are central to the Norwegian economy and form an increasing part of our exports, roughly estimated at 400 billion. kr. Norwegian services apply globally, in particular in shipping, telecoms, the supply industry and niche products such as maritime and energy insurance. There is more cross-border trade. However, services are less than 20 pst. of world trade. This gives potential for more growth. We have to make that right. We need good common driving rules internationally. Therefore, Norway has participated in the negotiation of TISA since the start of negotiations, as I mentioned, in the spring of 2013. Having heard some comments today, I have to make it clear that Norway has a lot of offensive interests so that Norwegian businesses can also be secured in the future, which is in a transition phase where we are going to become less oil dependent, access to these markets. TISA does not pose a threat to public services in Norway. What over time can be the biggest challenge for Norwegian public services is if we don't have enough value creation, if we don't have jobs or tax revenues. TISA does not regulate privatisation or deregulation. We have not offered to open up markets for hospital services, public education, social welfare services or other service sectors where we want to maintain political space. I also assume that this was the prerequisite when both Navarsete and Solhjell were in the Stoltenberg II government and decided that Norway would go in here. I assume that the basis for that decision also for these two former state councils was that it was seen that there were more advantages for Norway than there were disadvantages. That is the way it is when we discuss trade policy. Nor is it the intention of the government to do something that changes what I said instead, and there is nothing to suggest that it becomes relevant in the TISA negotiations. In addition, TISA will never go further in opening up the Norwegian market for foreign services than the EEA implies for providers from 30 European countries. I guess it was also an important matter for the previous government. For public services such as hospitals and schools, there will still be Norwegian politicians who decide. Norway will maintain the right to regulate health, the environment, safety, consumer protection and employee rights in a non-discriminatory manner. The government places great emphasis on transparency around the international processes in which we participate on behalf of Norway. As far as TISA is concerned, I think we have an open and democratic process. It is assumed that the detailed positions, developed in cooperation with all the departments concerned, are in line with the mandate to which I referred and which is out. Extensive information on TISA has been provided on government websites, not least related to key issues in the public debate. I believe Norway is in the forefront of transparency in the TISA negotiations. We are one of a few countries that have published our opening offer, and it was done quite recently.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1068	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1071	I feel that in this case we cannot get enough assurances about what it is and what it is not. I would like to refer to the post of the representative of Navarsete, who referred to the developments that have taken place in the EU since the EEA Agreement was concluded, and hence to the EEA Agreement, and how it has in many ways become more extensive than I think anyone could imagine at the time. I just want an assurance of understanding that while the EEA Agreement is about a common regulatory framework in the internal market, TISA is about market access and non-discrimination and not about the development of a common regulatory framework. That's the one. The second was what Knut Arild Hareide said about how it could affect a very important sector, the banking and financial sector, where we have some experience. I just want to confirm that there will be no restrictions on our ability to regulate the financial sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1080	It would have been easy just to answer yes, and I can do that on the two questions – and confirm. I can add that in the case of TISA, Norway is trying to achieve market access in other countries, and then we get counterclaims. We will be able to decide for ourselves, quite explicitly, if we want to do so. I now explained areas that we do not have – or intend to have – offers within, and the constraints that lie there. Then, of course, we must also remember the offensive interests we have. With regard to the financial market, Norway also wants market access that we do not have today, but everyone who wants to operate in Norway has to deal with the Norwegian legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1089	The Christian People's Party follows the negotiations closely, albeit with a good portion of scepticism. So I have two questions. One is how the Foreign Minister looks at the TISA negotiations against the role of the WTO. The second point, which was also addressed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, is that these negotiations were started by the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV. Have major changes been made and led by the new government, or is it there, what the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party caused when they were some of them that these negotiations were important and they wanted to start them?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1094	Thank you for two good questions. Regarding the last question, I said in my post that what was decided by the government of Stoltenberg in the spring of 2013 – and the basis for these negotiations – was continued by this government, and it is firm. Then I have now also published what is the basis for Norway's negotiating position in the future. So the representative Hareide raises a bigger question, about the World Trade Organisation, this with bilateral agreements, this with megaregional agreements. Because there was no progress in the Doha Round in the WTO, these countries agreed to join forces – now there are 51 countries – to continue negotiations on services. But the best thing is if we agree on this in the WTO context.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1103	I must first ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to explain whether he believes that the opening offer is equal to the mandate – or is it the position note that is now called a mandate? What is the mandate? “Very clear, in simple words, I would like an answer to that question. So I've asked the Foreign Minister time and time again – I didn't get a response in the post he held today either – to get one example on a business that is disconnected from a market today and that will have access to that market through TISA. It is presented as unlikely that this is important to gain access to a market which must be clearly excluded from today. If there's not going to be any points, because it's not going to touch standards, we're definitely going to be able to control everything that we do today. It's not supposed to touch the financial market, it's got the right now, it's not supposed to be common legislation, it's not going to be restrictions that regulate neither hospitals, schools or anything. It's a completely different direction than that from someone else. But I have asked two questions, specifically.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1110	The representative of Navarsete knows some of the answers to the last question from when the government of Stoltenberg chose to participate in part of the TISA negotiations, because it was seen that Norway had offensive interests here. It is such that, through the GATS agreement at the beginning of the 1990s, Norway opened up its service market quite extensively. We have thus seen a desire for access to the service market in some other countries, where we do not have full access, through important Norwegian sectors such as the United Kingdom. maritime industry, this with insurance in the maritime and oil and gas services industries, which do not have full market access, and that is also the situation for the telecommunications industry. These companies want better market access than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1117	I do not know how many times the government or the foreign minister has shown the previous government in the two matters we have now dealt with, but I can say that in both cases I thought the previous government was acting wisely, and I acknowledge what happened. In both cases, things have happened since then, and in this case, the negotiations are now in progress. So the proposal for a representative is whether we can get more public about the framework and what is happening, because it is very far from an opening offer to the final result between 51 countries, and it is very central that we know something about the direction and can debate it well. In my view, it's very unfortunate that it's now happening most on the basis of WikiLeaks and too little on the basis of real information about the direction. So let me ask you a question, since the Foreign Minister is at least theoretically busy with openness, or says that he thought it was important: can the Foreign Minister think of coming to the Storting and giving an account of the status of the TISA negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1124	First, I am pleased that the representative, Solhjell, also acknowledges the important work done by the red-green government in this respect, that Norway became part of the TISA negotiations, because it was seen that Norway has very offensive interests. So Norway, as one of the few countries, has now published the prerequisites and mandates for the work we are doing in the negotiations, and that is something that I am pleased that we have done. It is important when the negotiations begin to tighten up, that the Storting is constantly being briefed. I have also written in my answers that if there is a request for more information, I would like to make a statement. I don't think it's appropriate to start with a statement – now we have a discussion about it, and we haven't come to such a time – but I suggest that we follow what is the tradition of the kind of international negotiations, that the Storting should be kept properly informed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1130	The whole point of this debate is to increase the clarity of the public discussion. The understanding of two principles, ‘freeze’ and ‘scratch’, is central. As I understand ‘freeze’ and ‘scratch’, ‘freeze’ means that no rules may be introduced restricting market access for foreign companies to which the TISA agreement applies and ‘scratch’ – that is to say to turn one way – that if a country chooses to release to foreign companies to compete for a certain type of service, this decision cannot be reversed. Is there a correct understanding of the two principles?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1135	As I mentioned earlier, Norway has many offensive interests in the service market. We have opened up our market quite strongly. We want corresponding market access. If there are requirements that we want to meet from someone who wants increased market access in Norway, and where our legislation imposes certain restrictions, this could be required to be frozen, and we can offer it to be frozen at the current level. Then we will not be able to make the legislation more stringent. We can tighten it up in a liberalizing or fairer direction. But these are areas that we might want to go into ourselves, areas where we want to, and see us earned it. That was also the assumption when the previous government opened up to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1140	I understand the answer so that my understanding of the two terms ‘freeze’ and ‘scratch’ was correct. So it is in international negotiations that if one concludes an agreement that contains the two principles, with that understanding, it is no longer up to national authorities to derogate from those principles. It is precisely what is the whole point of international agreements, that one should bind parliaments to exercise the content of the principles. What's wrong with such an understanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1145	As I said, when the Stoltenberg government chose to open up Norwegian participation in the negotiations on a TISA agreement, it was seen that Norway has major offensive interests. We want Norwegian business to have increased access, not least to these markets. We have a strong Norwegian business that wants this. We have already liberalised, opened up our service market quite strongly in Norway, both through the GATS agreement in the early 1990s and through the EEA Agreement. This is an offensive opportunity, an opportunity for us to ensure Norwegian business better market access. We do nothing in this area and commit ourselves in any area that we do not see Norway being served under an overall assessment. I think that's a little important to bring with me when you're discussing this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1150	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1155	In my opinion, there is no basis for the claims made by the Central Party that there is a high level of secrecy in this case. On the contrary, most people have an opinion that this is a democratic process of openness. The proposers themselves put in government when Norway applied for participation. There was broad political agreement that it was in Norway’s interest to do so, even when the mandate was designed. Deep down, I think maybe representatives from both the SV and the Central Party realize that there is a limit to transparency in international negotiations, and that the desire for maximum transparency needs to be balanced, so that Norway can achieve the best possible agreement. The proposers themselves have been in a government that practiced far less transparency in such contexts than that of this government. Representatives also know that they have the full opportunity to ask the questions they may wish in the European Committee of the Regions, and you can ask yourself why this has not happened. Why haven't you raised your concerns in the right forum? I also believe that the proposers assume a great responsibility when they characterise the handling of the negotiations as a secret. The fact that the government does not take good care of Norwegian interests creates a false picture that a TISA agreement is a threat to Norwegian interests and to well-being. These are important national interests. TISA, as I said, is based on the WTO service agreement – GATS – with which Norway has lived well since 1995. We have extensive obligations to grant non-discriminatory market access under the WTO Agreement. This is not the case in many other countries, especially in sectors where countries practise free trade in services. This is what we want TISA to fix. A TISA agreement allows Norwegian companies to achieve increased non-discrimination and non-discriminatory market access for key Norwegian service industries. Norwegian shipping has revenues of nearly 100 billion. kr in outdoor markets. Telecom's trading for about 70 billion. kr annually in Norway. The export value of oil and gas services is likely to reach between 120 billion and 140 billion. NOK. We need more international trade. It increases value creation, it raises more out of poverty. It is the government that has negotiating responsibility on behalf of the country. It is not the role of the Storting to engage directly in international negotiations. En-route orientation rather than full disclosure requirements would be more consistent with the established constitutional practice in terms of the division of labour and responsibilities between magnification and government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1166	It is the nation-state that is the framework of our democracy, and the dismantling of the nation-state through uncontrolled free trade and the legalisation of the policy creates less popular rule, as we know – historically and internationally – in turn gives rise to greater differences among people. This is TISA's most serious concern: to remove the possibility of national states regulating production and the market within their own country. The government writes the following about the new trade agreements in its own trade and globalisation policy message: ‘The core areas of the negotiations move from customs issues and border management to border relations, including regulation, standards and support schemes.’ On the one hand, the government is trying to give the impression that TISA will have no effect on almost anything in Norway. On the other hand, the government writes that the whole point of the new trade agreements is to change national regulations. What is the matter today is publicity, confidentiality and secrecy. It is rarely expensive to hear from the spokesperson of Stortingen that the case-rapporteur, in this case the representative Rodum Agdestein, says that there is no secret – there is no secret. Well, then we've got a new confirmation of what's in the term secrecy. The representative Hareide said that the Norwegian welfare model should not be undermined, and that the Christian People's Party opens up a stronger Norwegian role in the future. The Christian People's Party opens up a stronger Norwegian role in the future – what does that mean? The first commandment should be that we know what we're negotiating, and what we're talking about. When the SV and the Central Party promote proposals for greater transparency, without going into the negotiations, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party vote against. It's amazing. I was a seaman, head of Norwegian Farmers' Associations, in 1990, at the mid-term negotiations in the Uruguay Round, which dealt with the GATT agreement, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, in Montreal. In this context, we were invited into the negotiations when we were in the civil sector. There is a reference here to the previous Uruguay Round, but there was a completely different view on these issues. Soul it was conflictful, but now it's secrecy to a very different extent. Secret is mobilizing resistance. Fortunately, freedom of expression is more international, and fortunately we have the leak website WikiLeaks. That's what it's going to come up with. This is the recipe for strengthening the resistance in Norway, because there is uncertainty about what this is actually about. In the name of democracy, it must then be possible to find out what are the principles, what are the contents of the concepts, as I tried in the line to the Council of State. That's when the first bids in our People's Government, and then we experience here that parties that have real interests in the substance – I think mostly of the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Workers' Party – vote against openness. It's amazing. It's amazing! I will end with: when the representative Hareide says that one should open up a stronger Norwegian role in the future, without knowing what we are talking about, it is strong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1184	The representative Svein Roald Hansen said in his speech earlier in the debate that one had done away with some public services and took the services back in public. The government has repeatedly said that TISA does not address the possibility of resuming services under municipal or state law. In order to clear up the ambiguities of the road, the Labour Party should have supported our comment, stating that we need to know whether the TISA agreement could lead to privatisation, deregulation or the postponement of some public services at national or local level. It also applies to the possibility, through political decisions, of reintroducing public ownership and governance in sectors that have been privatised in the past. After this debate, it is not possible to say that the TISA agreement has been clearer. I think it has created more confusion than clarity for those who listen to this debate. And it's hard to take the representative Rodum Agdestein seriously when she claims that the TISA negotiations are a foregleam when it comes to openness. It's almost so I have to go to the smiley band of it. We can start with the so-called mandate, which I have been asking for all winter. Now a position note calls for a mandate, and it is a note that is quite different from the mere opening offer that has also been called a mandate. What is the mandate for the negotiations? A mandate is an order for the trade bureaucrats. What are we going to achieve? How far should we go? What do you want to do? It is in the same way that the EU now stops the TTIP process, because one was not the same. One saw that it could actually be no to TTIP, but then it was stopped by a lot of standing in Brussels. A mandate is not about an opening offer. A mandate is not a positionnote. What a mandate is about, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs knows very well, because they create a very large number of mandates, down to a very detailed level, when bureaucrats go out and negotiate far less matters than the TISA agreement. I ask again, what is the mandate? Why can't we present that? Does the mandate say something that the Foreign Minister and the government do not want us to know? Is it, then, that one has kept us with an opening offer that is relatively impeccable, because it does not tell us where to go in the negotiations? It just says something about the opening offer and position and a position note that's kind of in the same street. I ask myself again, why would a keep it secret? Or is there not a real mandate that sets limits, just as Viviane Reding in the EU has said that the EU sets limits with red and green lines for how far the EU can go in these negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1199	Norway’s foreign trade is regulated by a number of agreements, including: The WTO Agreement, the EEA Agreement and the EFTA Free Trade Agreements. Norway’s trade agreement with the EU and other countries is essential for Norway and Norwegian business. Norway’s wealth and employment are similar to that of most other countries, depending on participation in international trade. There are now negotiations on new trade agreements, including: TISA, where Norway is with 50 other countries, and TTIP, between the EU and the United States, where Norway is not involved. Exports of services are important for the Norwegian economy and employment. Globally, services and trade in services are a central part of economic infrastructure, and the world economy depends on well-functioning service markets. Norway already has a very open market for services and market access is largely regulated in the GATS and EEA. This is not the case for all other countries to which Norway exports services. TISA will increase predictability and facilitate the export of services to other countries, which will contribute positively to economic growth and employment. I therefore believe that it was absolutely right for the Stoltenberg government to take the initiative to engage Norway in the TISA negotiations. However, negotiations on new trade agreements provide different new trading scenarios in global trade, which have gained political attention and given new scepticism among some to such trade agreements. I therefore believe it is essential to provide good information on negotiations on the agreements, both opening and en route, as I see it, is the intention of the draft by the representatives. It counteracts myth creations and scare images, which we now see tending to. We all deserve to create an arena for a nuanced debate based on knowledge of Norway's trade with the rest of the world. Having said that, I would like to stress that I believe that the government has contributed greatly to the transparency of the negotiation process and our negotiating positions along the way. However, I understand that it is difficult to effectively pursue national interests in the negotiations through full transparency. In our political system, the negotiations on international agreements are under government control. The size is presented to international agreements for debate and approval, and that is also the case with TISA. Nevertheless, I would urge the government to note the turmoil surrounding TISA and other negotiations that are taking place, and to take the initiative and contribute to – both here in the United Kingdom and through the European Commission, through the presentation of the Storing and other forums – to have as informed a debate as possible on the agreements until the Grand Duchy receives its proposal for consideration. Transparency provides knowledge of the agreements, so that we can all make an opinion about the agreement once it has been negotiated. We probably don't avoid fear propaganda, but with factual knowledge, we can also make an opinion about it. A heated debate before we know the agreement is not worth Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1210	I have been in the EEA-EFTA delegation – this is the second period, the first period was from 2005 to 2009. This is the first time you get a real debate in Norwegian public about these kinds of questions, and I think that is very good. But I wish it was on a completely different basis. For what really worries me the most, and that's a little about taking on a big responsibility when you're so critical, cf. What the representative Rodum Agdestein also said is that there are quite a number of people I've met who are afraid, and who believe that our entire welfare state is going to be almost dissolved because of this agreement. It's wrong, and it's important that we reject it. To spend time talking to those people and telling them what this is really about, I've actually done a part of, both in LO and in my own party organization, and then people get quite calm. This is not about the welfare state; it is about Norwegian business interests and business interests internationally in the 50 countries. That's what it's all about, and it's very important to establish, because people get so worried. They believe that the health system will be put out of competition hereafter, all that is about welfare production — yes, there will even be a lot of privatisation of the school because of this agreement. That's wrong. That's why I think it's very important that we who sit on the Storting, relate to the information that comes from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in a factual way, and accept the facts that are actually presented. And if you don't accept it, then you're going to have to disprove it, with the counterfacts, and say, it's direct error, here's what's right. I don't see it that far. I've seen a lot of horror propaganda, and you might be allowed to do that, but then you should be aware that the responsibility it involves is that people go around and are afraid of something that there's no reason to be afraid at all. This is about Norwegian business interests. The representative Lundtägen argued that Norwegian industry should be regulated by Norwegian politicians. Yes, then I can tell you about something that many people will be surprised about, at least a lot of Norwegians, I think, that there are 3,500 people working in Telenor in Norway, and there are 33,000 people working in Telenor abroad. And they have markets – the big markets that are growing now are in India, Bangladesh, Malaysia and Pakistan. The fact that they have a level playing field with other international groups is that they should not be discriminated against. That's the kind of issue we're discussing. When the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Foreign Affairs repeat it to the tedious, I would like it to go further and let go of the debate that is constantly being called on to say that this is about the Norwegian welfare state, because it does not. Then I fully agree with Irene Johansen's representative that we must have the most openness possible. Of course, we have to, and if you're dissatisfied with it, you can take it up in the Storting, in this debate, as we are now doing, and in further contexts. I'll assume that's going to be more of, and that's just positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1223	Perhaps some of the most important things that have been said here are said by the representative, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, who advised it not to allow WikiLeaks to premise the debate. I think that's wise advice. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has confirmed in this debate that the opening offer presented by the government of Stoltenberg has not changed, and he has also, as far as I can see, said that he does not intend to change it. That the Stoltenberg government was going to enter into negotiations that would pave the way for large-scale privatisation, I must say I am amazed that some are concerned about, even outside this hall. The fight against privatisation was one of the most important conflicts for that government to the right, and then you had to shake away the entire victory you won by maintaining the government power, by going to Geneva and negotiating with 50 other countries, it's disappointing that someone really makes a difference. Solhell raised the question: what is the definition of the public sector? It's probably different around, but in the opening offer that's presented, there's a lot of areas that are listed, not just what we can think about with school, health, etc., but there's a lot of areas where it's quite open with regard to competition, where we've said we should keep political control. It means, as I understand it, that although the government now has a majority in this room to open up the privatisation of the railway and competition, a future government could take it back into public operation. There won't be anything in this that prevents it. Lundtigen argues that international negotiations are about removing regulatory opportunities. Well, if you go to the United Kingdom and hear the debate on EU membership, it's not exactly about removing regulation, it's about the British thinking there's too much regulation. But that premise is wrong. It is not about market access, it is about non-discrimination, and those who are going to operate in Norway have to deal with Norwegian rules. We may not be able to favour Norwegian companies, i.e. to have equal treatment – Norwegian companies are serving abroad. But it's a dimension that's gone under the radar, and that's that the TISA agreement really provides a framework, and then we're going to have bilateral negotiations. We can make demands on other countries, other countries can make demands on us, and there we will also have full control. It is similar to the principle of free trade agreements, which are based on the principles of the WTO Agreement, and then goes a little further towards some countries. It is also an important dimension of this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1237	This evolves into an interesting discussion. Now we have had three articles from the Workers' Party, and all three have had a common denominator. It's that one has to have openness to counteract myth and scare images, as the representative Irene Johansen said. Marianne Aasen followed up with the fact that one had to stop the scare campaign. And Svein Roald Hansen said we shouldn't act like WikiLeaks is the basis for the debate. No, exactly. What is the whole point of the proposal from the Centre Party and the SV is that we should have transparency about the principles on which this is negotiated, and how Norway agrees with those principles, when the representative Hansen says that if the right-wing government privatises the railway, a TISA agreement should not stand in the way of taking it back to public operation. To what the Minister of Foreign Affairs said here in the context of trash: A trash is a practical tool that you screw one way. In a political sense, this is used to turn right. If the foreign minister thinks it's wrong, well, then we'll get it clear here. Trade agreements are important. The center party is for trade agreements; we are for rules of play in international trade, maritime. We must regulate international trade. And, of course, Norway will have offensive interests and defensive interests in the trade negotiations. But let's get it on the table. Let's get the dilemmas in terms of defensive interests on the table. Let's see if the health sector is part of this if the health sector is privatised or not. Let's see if it's going to be easier or harder to award contracts to the non-profit sector in the future than it is now. It is important for many to have predictable framework conditions. The last non-profit organisation I met was the Air ambulance, which was very concerned about what happened if there was a bid that opened up to international actors. It is important for many communities; it is important for many people. It is no wonder that representatives of the Workers' Party have to fly their legs off – apologies for an unparliamentary expression, President – to their trade unions and tell them that it is not like that, while one here is given the opportunity to vote for a proposal to obtain information, also votes against. Unfortunately, the argumentation is not faithful.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1248	We, who have not been part of a red-green government, have followed this debate with interest, and we have well got a little glimpse of what happened inside the red-green government a few years back in time. I'm probably not as sure as Per Olaf Lundtägen that that Center Party was at that time is so terriblely crazy. I actually think the debate itself has been good, because it's got a whole and good round around this, and Marianne Aasen thought I'd do it in a good way. However, I have to comment on what is being said that the Christian People's Party wants us to go further. I didn't say that in my post. For once I had a script, and therefore I know very well what I said. What I said was that the Christian People's Party is open so that the Storting can have a stronger role in the future in discussing and giving leadership to Norway's priorities in such negotiations. But we are not in favour of this proposal. We clearly want maximum openness, but we do not want Norway to act as an unprofessional negotiator in international negotiations. I've seen that a large number of people on the Storting are in agreement. It's just the SV and the Center Party that are disunity in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1255	As rapporteur, I would like to thank you for a good debate. I would also like to thank the proposers for the opportunity to debate trade policy. That's always interesting. But I am also concerned, like the Aasen representative, that the debate should be factual. Although I disagree, I believe that this debate has actually clarified a good deal about what the TISA agreement is really about. It is not a threat to Norwegian interests, on the contrary. We have a clear interest in an agreement that will provide predictable rules and conditions of competition and open markets for our service exports based on equal treatment. I also want to pay tribute to the government for the transparency line and the inclusion that is being issued in connection with the process. In fact, Norway is one of the few countries that have published their opening offer. It cannot be explained out, nor can it be explained by the representative of Lundtegen. I look forward to the further process, and that the government is continuing the transparency line it has put on in the TISA negotiations. So the government has presented a big message on the globalisation of trade. It will be the starting point of the committee during the harvest session, and we will then have ample opportunity to discuss Norwegian trade policy, including the TISA negotiations, in full scope. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1268	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1271	I didn't intend to take the floor again, but Agdestein said that the debate must be factual, and therefore there is a factual error that has been seen here, which I have to correct. The representative Svein Roald Hansen said in the debate that Norway's opening offer was presented by the red-green government. That's wrong. The opening offer was submitted on 15 November 2013. I would like to know that it was the red-green government that put it, but it was not. So it wasn't presented by the government of Stoltenberg. We went into an ok. Had we sat in the government, behind the wheel, I think we should have had a seven because we had more openness about what is happening in the negotiations than we see now. At government.no, it says: ‘Norway’s opening offer in the negotiations for a new agreement on trade in services – TISA was submitted on 15 November 2013.’ [[...]] It reflects the most ambitious, it also says on the government.no, of what we have of trade agreements in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1281	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1284	The representative Hareide said that he is not so sure that the Senterpartiet was in the Red-Green government that the representative Lundtigen thought was wrong. The representative Hareide has no reason to say that – not to say that in relation to what I have said. The representative says that the Storting should play a stronger role in the future with overall leadership, and that one should have maximum transparency, but one should not have unprofessional negotiations. No, a seafarer shall not engage in unprofessional negotiations. That is not what is in the proposal either – it is just reading the proposal. But we must have a debate on the principles. We need to have a debate on the concepts, so we know what we're talking about. That's the whole point. The representative Agdestein says we should have a debate that should be fact-based. Rarely have I been given the clear contrast between what is said and what the representative Agdestein now intends to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1291	The next speaker is Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende – if he is aware.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1294	President, I was ready to start! This has been an interesting and important debate on a topic where Norway has many offensive interests. I have received some questions along the way, but I have also reflected on the fact that it might have been tempting to ask representatives Navarsete and Lundtegen if they could elaborate on the offensive reasons why they thought it was right that Norway should be part of these TISA negotiations when they were in government, if they could list up: Why was this correct? What were the offensive interests that weighed more heavily than what they consider to be more problematic areas today? But now leave it. I am convinced that Norway has a relatively open market in services. We went through the GATS round early in the 1990s for an opening that I believe has also served Norway. We've got competition on our own domestic market, where our companies and companies have comparative advantage. Based on the benefits of such exposure to its own market in developing competitiveness, these companies and those companies are able to compete outside. Now we have to help them get these opportunities as well. With regard to transparency in the TISA negotiations, we have issued the mandate – it is now up to the government.no. That's what our dealers have to deal with. It is a general mandate which gives clear instructions. So there's a lot of mix-ups here. When the representative Lundtigen speaks of 'freeze' and'scratches', I must stress that it is linked to non-discrimination issues, not liberalisation issues. In other words, we'll be able to get into a situation where we haven't fully treated, and then there'll be a demand for non-discrimination. We can accept freezing the legislation in the area we have today – it goes on the non-discrimination side. But we have already largely committed ourselves to this in the GATS, and freezing and scraping will have a very limited application for Norway because this is an area where we have relatively high transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1307	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1323	Holes and shortcomings in the fulfilment of sexual and reproductive health and rights undermine poverty reduction and gender equality, bottle household incomes and public budgets, lead to poorer health and school performance, lower productivity and professional participation, and result in lost opportunities for economic growth and better environmental management. We also know that maternal mortality due to unsafe abortions affects communities at all levels. This government has provided a big message called ‘Education for Development’. That's good. It is good that the government has its own platform and an idea for how it will invest in development policy. It is also very good that today’s Prime Minister – like the former Prime Minister – has shown a clear personal commitment to what she and the government want. The Prime Minister wrote on his blog that 65 million girls today are out of kindergarten. Furthermore, she writes that this is a violation of human rights, and that it has major negative consequences for social and economic development. It's hard to disagree. What I do miss, however, is this which is the theme of this interpellation — the connection between a comprehensive sexual education and the ability to go to school, to get a education, to participate in the labour market, and to be the head of your own life. A prerequisite for all to receive education is, of course, to invest in education, but when girls or women have access to knowledge-based sexual education, the chances of young girls using modern contraceptives are also increased if they have sex. It reduces the risk of them getting pregnant or having to marry as teenagers. Many girls in developing countries do not know how to avoid unwanted pregnancies, and many have little knowledge of sexual and reproductive rights. But here neither does it hold with knowledge alone. We also need to ensure that everyone, but especially young people, has access to healthcare and to contraceptives in particular. Early marriage, pregnancy and little knowledge of own rights are central to what the government itself describes as part of the main challenge of why girls do not go to school, in the ‘Education for Development’ main message. A commitment to a comprehensive sexual education is essential for sustainability of the initiative. Girls and women who get this knowledge get longer in school, they have children later, they have fewer children, and they also pass on their own positive experiences to their children again. And where conventional sex education focuses on physiological and sexual and reproductive health alone, in addition to taking up knowledge-based, holistic sex education, gender norms, power in relationships and using interactive learning methods. This will also strengthen young people’s knowledge of their own rights and, in particular, strengthen women’s ability to make their own choices in and through life. Today, sexual education for young people and children is not included in the proposals for the new sustainability goals, and then, as the President understands, it is important to ensure that they are at least involved in the implementation goals – or implementation, if you like – precisely because we know how important it is for everyone, especially girls. Prevention is better and cheaper than treatment. Efforts at comprehensive sexual education in all schools will also to some extent prevent many of the problems we are trying to tackle with the other different initiatives. Gender equality has been seen to a large extent internationally and nationally as a problem for women. Gender inequality is a social problem and a human rights problem, with a multiplier effect on economies, communities and nations that are truly overwhelming. It might not be surprising for us in our society, who can clearly see the economic and social importance of women's participation every day. And even though we still have one piece left, we've come a long way from many others. All the evidence shows that when a society invests in girls and women, everyone wins. Investing in girls and women is not just the right thing to do, but it's the important thing to do. We know that it creates ring-effects and a sustainable change that brings benefits to families, communities and nations, and reaches 10 pst. Several girls go to school, and also increase the GDP of a country on average by 3 pst. The new sustainability targets are in themselves positive, and there is a lot of good work going on in the area we are now discussing. Governments have agreed internationally to ensure universal access to sexual and reproductive health services, including family planning, information and training and the integration of reproductive health into national strategies and programmes, and agree to ensure universal access to sexual and reproductive health and reproductive rights, as agreed under the ICPD action programme. In addition, it is also important to agree to eliminate harmful practices, such as: child marriages, early marriages, forced marriages and female sexual mutilation. That – in addition to the consensus on abolishing all forms of violence against women and girls – should perhaps be a matter of course, but it is not. It says something about the challenges facing us as a world society. What is also not agreed is to include a point on sexual rights, that is, everyone has the right to control relationships relating to their own sexuality, without coercion, discrimination and violence. It would be a natural extension of reproductive rights and a natural part of human rights. The right not to be discriminated against on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity should also be an integral part of the objectives of a sustainable world. You might like it or not, but it's often the case that what's being measured is done, and there's a need for a better and more comprehensive set of indicators, where there's the possibility of getting information about sex and age. Today, it is too easy for girls and girls to be caught up in the monitoring mechanisms. I take up this interpellation because I suspect this is an area of broad agreement here in Norway, and that the descriptions of the challenges and causalities that I have here are also largely shared by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. These are themes that Norway has addressed internationally and has been a driving force for. The challenge is that it is a relatively narrow area with some strong counterpowers, but because it has so much real significance for the development of the world and human life, it becomes very important. I have been in contact with UNFPA and the Norwegian part of IPPF, Sex and Politics, who are all concerned about what can be the final result of the sustainability goals in this area. We know that there is often strong international resistance from e.g. The G77 countries in terms of rights, and there is particularly strong opposition to the review of sexual rights. Freedom to decide what happens to our own organs, to make decisions about sexuality, relationships and fertility, are fundamental parts of our lives, and by investing in promoting these rights, governments can unleash the power of women and girls and thus transform entire societies. It would therefore be useful if the Council of State could say something about how he thinks that the implementation of comprehensive knowledge-based sexual education, including sexual rights, can be incorporated into Norwegian education for development, and also on how he assesses the international situation and the possibility of gaining a comprehensive sexual education as a component objective and/or a sustainability indicator, as well as how Norway might work to achieve this. I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1364	The representative, Mr Wickholm, is addressing an important issue. We know that poverty, child marriage and lack of access to education, prevention and sexual education are among the underlying causes of teen pregnancy. It is believed that about 40,000 girls under the age of 18 are married away every day. Every year 70,000 teenage girls die because of complications related to pregnancy and childbirth. The birth of children also has serious consequences for the health of children, for local communities and for the economy of countries. I therefore agree that knowledge-based sexual education and knowledge related to reproductive health are important and necessary in order to safeguard the rights of girls and to give them the opportunity to create a good life for themselves and their families. In addition, it is well documented that completion of schooling itself has a positive impact on girls’ reproductive health. In fact, the education of girls is one of the most effective strategies to combat child marriage and early pregnancy. If all girls had completed high school and high school, the number of children's brides would be reduced by two thirds. Studies show that if all girls in sub-Saharan Africa and in Western and South Asia completed high school, 60 pst. fewer teenage girls under the age of 17 are exposed to complications of early pregnancy, complications which in some cases are very serious and fatal. When girls have children later, child mortality is also reduced. Similarly, the education of girls reduces cases of sexually transmitted diseases. By focusing on the education of girls, Norway not only contributes to the attainment of girls’ right to education but also to better health for them and their children. In addition, we know that the education of girls is an important step towards poverty reduction. The representative of Wickholm asks how the government will ensure that the school and education effort in development context also includes knowledge-based sexual education, and that this is included in the new UN development goals. For a number of years, Norway has been working to provide comprehensive sexual education as part of its curricula. This is also part of the follow-up to the ‘Education for Development’. Norway has for a long time cooperated with and supported the work of the UN Population Fund UNFPA, UNESCO, UNAIDS and UNICEF on global guidelines for knowledge-based sexual education and the development of curricula. Norway’s core contribution to UNFPA’s work includes: help 63 countries reform their sexual education syllabus according to international standards. Norway supports sexual education in a number of African countries through civil society and multilateral organisations. We continue to focus on girls’ health and education as the two areas are mutually influenced by each other, and because education and health are the key to poverty reduction and economic and social growth. Despite many years of efforts from Norway and many other countries, these issues remain controversial at the UN negotiating table, which was also discussed by the representative. In the negotiations on the UN's new sustainability objectives, the government has had sexual and reproductive health and rights, including comprehensive sexual education, as one of its priorities. We have, along with like-minded countries from both north and south, promoted this view in different ways. We have addressed this matter in two-regional articles that have had the support of more than 50 countries, and we have submitted textual proposals on partial objectives of overall sex education both under the education target and the objective of gender equality. Despite the support of many countries for these proposals, we have failed to reach an agreement on including neither sexual rights nor total sexual education in the present draft sustainability objective. However, we have contributed to a commitment that universal access to sexual and reproductive health services should also include education. In addition, there is agreement on a partial objective of sexual and reproductive health and reproductive rights. This objective could be a tool for promoting sexual education as part of the follow-up to the gender objective of the new development agenda. In future negotiations at the UN, we will continue to work towards international acceptance for sexual rights and for comprehensive sexual education to become an international commitment that all countries must fulfil. In this context, it is gratifying to note that more and more developing countries are approaching our views. It gives hope that, in the long term, we will win out on these important issues also at a global level.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1387	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer, which I consider to be very positive in all respects. As I also tried to express in my article, we absolutely share the assessment that education is very important to women's health, and I also share the descriptions that Burne gave of the possibilities that girls get later in life. But that's also the case, as he himself said, that sex education, health and education are interdependent. It's scary that there should be so much resistance to getting a commitment to having sexual education as part of the new sustainability goals, because, as I tried to describe, one thing is that girls get into school, but we also have to make sure that what they actually learn in school is something that enables them to make good choices later in life. Burnde herself described that how long you are in school is also affected by other conditions such as marriage and pregnancy. One of the things you can do in school because you get married later, because you get pregnant later, is to have a coherent, good knowledge-based sexual education, start early, as we do, and seem important, in our own country. I agree that it's a good kid that you've done with the partial goal of teaching reproductive rights, but it would be a great advantage if you could also get a commitment to getting this in as part of your education. I could also imagine if Burnde has any thoughts about the work on the indicators, and whether there are ways we can work with them in order to be able to follow developments in a better way than what we are doing today to ensure women's health and to ensure sexual and reproductive rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1398	Once again, thank the representative, Mr Wickholm, for taking up such an important interview. We are now facing two major international meetings related to these issues. Of course, it is the meeting of the United Nations General Assembly in September which will address the new sustainability objectives and the financing meeting Monterrey 2 in Addis in mid-July. To this end, sexual education and sustainability objectives: firstly, the lack of consensus within the UN does not mean that there is massive resistance to sexual education in all developing countries. On the contrary, I would say that it is more likely that there is a small group of well-organised countries, with strong views on the occasion of the case, who use the principle that there must be consensus before a decision can be taken in the UN. It is regrettable in such an important issue, but when nothing is adopted without consensus, a small group of countries can join forces and stop progress. It is also – as the representative pointed out – intended that countries themselves should be able to design national indicators for the sub-targets under the sustainability targets. Every country is obliged this time. In addition to the global indicators, national design is necessary. In other words, our countries of cooperation are free to have indicators relating to the introduction of sexual education in the school system to measure the extent to which they realize the right to reproductive health. This is something we should encourage. It is also important to stress that we encounter a different situation in the dialogue we have with local authorities than with national authorities in some contexts. There we have, as mentioned, good experience in obtaining knowledge-based information on the importance of the inclusion of sexual education in primary school education, i.e. local. For example, in Malawi, a focus country, we support increased sexual education through the UN Joint Programme on Education for Girls. The programme goes over a three-year period and has a financial envelope of NOK 112 million. It is implemented by UNICEF, the Population Programme and the World Food Programme, in cooperation with the Malawian authorities. In Niger, Norway has supported sexual education through another UN programme, the main objective of which is to promote attitudes and practices among young people in secondary school and through other school services that can contribute to increased use of contraceptives. As has been said, cooperation between UNESCO, UNICEF and the UN Population Fund has resulted in 63 countries reforming their sexual education syllabus, according to international standards. We still have to be a driver, so this number is going to be higher than 63.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1413	Let me first thank the interpellant for raising a very important question. It's a fundamental human right to determine your own body and your own sexuality. Sexual and reproductive health is essential to prevent unnecessary suffering and, unfortunately, often death from sexually transmitted diseases and, in particular, complications related to pregnancy and childbirth — not to mention HIV/AIDS. It's in the area of sexual and reproductive health that we might find the greatest social health differences in the world. Education and equality are fundamental to preventing violence and harmful practices, such as sexual mutilation and child marriage. Knowledge-based sexual education must be included in the school and education effort and in other development work, which must also include both sexes. Awareness raising of young boys in e.g. African countries are becoming absolutely necessary in this work. The UN Conference on Population and Development, dating back to 1994, in Cairo, defined reproductive health as a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being – and not just the absence of disease or disease – in everything related to the reproductive system and its functions and processes. This means safe pregnancy and safe births. It means the prevention and treatment of sexually transmitted infections, and that, of course, means family planning and prevention. But maybe in this part of Millennium Goal 5, there's still too much left. Still, we see that it's useful. In an article in The Lancet in 2010, the UN and the World Bank estimate a 34 pst reduction in pregnancy-related mortality. from the level during the period 1990–2008. Evolution is going in the right direction, but it's going slower than the desired one. Teaching about pregnancy, of course, meets prejudices. In most cultures, there are norms for who has sex with who, and often one is most concerned with norms and disregards the consequences. It is also important to raise awareness of rape and sexual assault. I want to refer to what is also happening in conflicts and civil wars. Security Resolution 1325 is a necessary tool here. In many places, girls are taken out of school to work or take care of the baby sister while Mother is out making money. In addition, factors such as child marriage and forced marriage prevent girls from continuing schooling. Norway has long played a leading role in improving the provision of assembly and combating child mortality. Experience shows that every year in school, infant mortality decreases because it takes longer before the girls get pregnant. This is also why it is important to invest in school and sexual education. Let me add that female teachers can be important in this context, because they play a key role. They may also be important as role models for girls, also because they understand gender-sensitive issues. Among the factors in school life that lead to girls falling out are sanitary conditions for girls. This is why children-friendly schools are now developing, among other things. are separate toilets for girls and boys, and where there is special work to be done on gender issues, e.g. the fact that the children bring home clean water. The Global Fund shall cooperate, inter alia: with UNICEF on this issue and also on the training of teachers. Norway also helps to reduce the price of contraceptives by providing a guarantee of large purchases. Let me add that it is important that we continue work to ensure the health of children, young women and mothers as we go in and work on sustainability goals. Finally, when we were members of the then Foreign Affairs Committee in Mozambique in 2007, we visited a clinic that handled HIV-infected, often pregnant girls. A nurse looked at us with a fixed glance and said, "The worst thing is to tell the young girls that they're going to die." The next day, we visited a high school run by the United Nations. There the students had a theater show about how cool it was to use condoms – a sex education that really hit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1443	The interpellant said that when a society invests in girls and women, everyone wins. I agree with him in that. He is probably also right in his suspicion that there is a broad consensus on these questions in this room. The government has, for example: in the 2015 budget, Norway’s global health commitment increased. Norway is the leading international promoter of women’s reproductive health and rights. Strong escalation of support for education, with particular emphasis on girls’ education, is an important contribution in this area. For girls who are educated, marry later, have children later and have better health for themselves and their children. Yes, UN figures show that child mortality in sub-Saharan Africa alone could have been reduced by up to 40 pst. if the mothers had been in school. This shows that there is a clear link between education and knowledge related to reproductive health. The Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee has just dropped the education message from the government through in Stortinget, and there the committee said – and I allow myself to quote: ‘Education is not least important for improving reproductive health, limiting child marriages and forced marriages, reducing teen pregnancy and ensuring more sustainable population development. The Committee would stress the strong link between education, health and nutrition. Education of girls is, in the Committee's view, a strategic investment in better health and nutrition for the whole family. The Committee shares the government’s view of the school as an area for improved nutrition, protection against diseases, improved hygiene, combating sexual mutilation and combating HIV/AIDS.’ Reproductive health is also a question of human rights. We are working primarily through the WHO, the UN Population Fund, the UN Human Rights Council, the UN Women's Commission and the UN Population Commission to promote sexual and reproductive rights. Norwegian efforts are directed towards molestation, access to reproductive health services and family planning, safe abortion where abortion is legal, and sexual education, as well as combating gender mutilation and violence against women and girls. Yes, dangerous abortions account for 13 pst. of maternal mortality. Women's rights are human rights and a prerequisite for all development. This approach permeates the foreign and development policy of the government, which we have just heard in the description of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The so-called women's allowance of more than 300 million. Allow the government to support concrete efforts to strengthen the position of women in a large number of cooperating countries. In these countries, there is a need to work from many points of view on such issues. From the Norwegian side, priority areas for action are women's right to control their own bodies, freedom from violence in all forms, participation and participation in society and economic development. Some of the efforts include support to organisations working for improved child and maternity, including safe abortions and prevention of pregnancy and HIV/AIDS among girls. Norway supports global efforts against child and coercion marriages and gender mutilation and the fight against violence against women in all forms. Another area of intervention is long-term impact work aimed at guaranteeing women legal, political and economic rights where these are lacking. Attitude-building efforts to ensure women's participation in all parts of society are also directed at boys and men. Sexual and reproductive health and reproductive rights are central to the mandate of the UNFPA, and Norwegian support for UNFPA is maintained in 2015 and is also significant now. The UN Women’s Organisation for Women’s Rights and Gender Equality, also makes an important awareness-raising effort to ensure that Member States comply with their international obligations, and Norwegian support for that organisation has also been maintained – yes, Norway is in fact one of the most significant donors to UN Women. I would like to thank the interpellant for the opportunity to take this round on this important topic, and I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very good answer. He assured us that Norway will continue to deal with these questions. Although only a partial objective of the new development objectives is now reached, there are a number of barriers, such as: culture, tradition and religions – at least Norway is a major player in its own wake, and our own objectives in our aid policy are firm, not least through our efforts at education in the co-operative countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1469	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important topic and also the Minister for a good answer. The relationship between development, education and sexual health is not to be misunderstood. One of the reasons Norway today is identified as one of the world’s best countries to live in is precisely to understand this context and put it in a system. Women’s access to the education system and the labour market, sexual education, access to contraceptives and attitudes have been key factors for a more equal society and a more productive society. The working party believes it is an important principle that women have full self-determination over their own bodies and their own sexuality. In order to ensure the real self-determination of girls over their own bodies and lives, they must have access to knowledge and different choices. Today, self-determination over one's own body and sexuality in many countries is a matter of money and social status. It is very worrying and serious. Knowledge of good reproductive health and of safe sexual health is something that should be available to all in order to ensure a sustainable and equitable change internationally. This representative is not in favour of taking his own ideas down on the heads of others, especially in the context of development policy. But it is a fact that, in addition to a commitment to education itself, there is an essential element of knowledge-based sexual education in order to increase efforts to combat poverty and achieve a more equal society. Research shows that girls and women play a key role in succeeding in a sustainable change for families, for communities and for nations. When 10 pst. Several girls attend school, increasing the GDP of a country on average by 3 pst. In Norway, we have been working for several years to strengthen and systematise work on better reproductive health. One of the overall objectives has been to strengthen young people and young adults in being able to take care of their sexual health. We know that requires the availability of good knowledge of sexuality, and not least the ability to act in sexual situations and relationships. International research shows that good competences for action and a positive relationship with one’s own body and sexuality are essential for sexual pleasure and for developing a secure sexual identity and, in particular, for ensuring sexual behaviour patterns. Key concepts are self-determination, mastery and right of self-determination and sexuality. In an international context, the WHO has placed great emphasis on this through a comprehensive and targeted approach that focuses on strengthening sexual health through clear strategies for empowerment. The main focus of work must therefore be on agencies and systems that can help to strengthen people’s positive opportunities and strategies to take control of their fertility and sexual health, rather than focusing unilaterally on avoiding unwanted pregnancy, abortion and disease. In this context, there is a need to focus on comprehensive and comprehensive sexual education and knowledge related to reproductive health in the context of school and educational initiatives in development, as the interpellant has mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1492	Like several people, I think it's an important topic I've addressed. I thank the Minister for the answer again. He also describes many powerful actions that Norway is behind, areas where we have succeeded in policy-making, 63 countries that have reformed the curriculum. All of this is very good. But one of the criticisms of the Millennium Goals has been that there have been quite a number of isolated individual projects and pilot projects that have not necessarily worked together. I also get the understanding from the Minister for Foreign Affairs that he too would like sex education to be included in a better way in the new sustainability goals, so I do not doubt it. Like others here, I've also been out watching these Norwegian projects work, seeing how it actually means something in rural Ethiopia or elsewhere that you get access to prevention, that you get access to education, that you actually show how to do things. But that's also how I got a sense that now we get to give up in this game, and then we'll see what we can get back to the next time. I wish the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his summarising statement that Norway has really been involved in this matter. Now we are in the final phase, and at least I'm going to promise the Norwegian big thing that we're going to push a little harder, try to get even more countries with us, and reach an agreement – which has actually been agreed at other previous international conferences, such as the previously mentioned conference on population and development, in many contexts. So that's possible. It has at least been possible in earlier times, and I would strongly encourage that we try again to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1501	I can assure the interpellant that we have not intended to give in to this question. We will continue the important work on sexual education at school and get it into the UN's various programmes. Norway has, inter alia: contributing to the adoption by the UN Population Commission in 2012 of a resolution on the rights of young people to sexual education. This resolution has been important in getting sexual education into the strategic plan of the UN Population Programme. This gives the UN mandate to promote and support the efforts of developing countries to introduce sexual education into the school system. It would have been even better if we had been able to bring this up as a perfectly clear milestone in the sustainability goals that are to replace the so-called Millennium Goals, but we look at different strategies to achieve it in the future. With regard to the possibility of escalating, there is a great opportunity through the increased educational effort we are now putting up. We're going to double what we do in education until 2017, and there's also an important element from the Norwegian side. In my opinion, this has been a good, informative and important debate, and it has also been a reminder to the government and to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – although I believe that in this case we do not need it – to stand on the ground. I see it as a hiarop from Stortinget, and as an important input. There shall also be gross delegations in the UN for the autumn, during the treatment of these sustainability targets. We must work strategically towards those countries that are a brake pad, and then we must strengthen them in the G77 – i.e. those of the developing countries – which have a more progressive view of this, so that they can take the lead and defeat the less progressive among their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1513	So the debate is on case No. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1527	In this case, the Storting shall adopt a temporary law and the proposal shall clearly clarify why it is necessary. It appears from the proposition that this temporary law should protect and control geographical information for the sake of national security. It implies the continuation of the provisions set out in the Law of 18 August 1914 No. 3 on defence secrets, and thus is not a change of reality. That law was effectively repealed by the Stortinget, but has not entered into force pending the entry into force of the Penal Code of 2005. As you know, the date of entry into force of the new criminal code of 2005 has now been set at 1 October 2015. There has been a wide consultation on proposals to include the above provisions in the Law of 20 March 1998 on Preventive Security Services, i.e. the so-called Safety Act. However, the extensive consultation round pointed to a number of factors that led the Ministry to make a more detailed assessment of this legislative proposal and the related administrative regime before proposing to include the provisions in the Security Act. Among other things, the Ministry will seek to strike a better balance between the national need for secrecy and the need for information from civil society. This also implies that legislative work needs to be adapted to the ongoing revision of the Security Act. Since the date of entry into force of new criminal law is 1 October 2015, and in order to avoid a period without prohibition and regulatory homes related to the admission, multiplication and publication of information on military installations and areas and depth data respectively, that prohibition must be continued with effect from 1 October 2015 at the latest. This is now done by a temporary law, so that the current ban can be continued until the legislative revision of the Security Act has been completed. It is a joint committee that supports this solution under temporary law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1538	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 6 and 7 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1565	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1572	Norwegian defence has been through a massive change in structure and material. But the benefits of this modernisation can only be derived if we add a third and decisive axis: the people of the organization. Experience so far shows that there are other requirements for personnel and competence in the modern response defence than in the previous invasion defence. New tasks, advanced systems and complex operations need to be met with increased efforts on the part of the people who are to master them. Today’s human resources are made up of a fragmented and partly detailed framework, and there has been little review that has taken sufficient account of the technological changes and the central social and military developments we see around us. A unanimous committee agrees with the proposals for amendments that need to be made to the Defence Personnel Act in order to meet these developments. We share the objective of contributing to the defence as an attractive employer who recruits, develops and retains personnel within the full range of defence's diverse competences. The size is currently adopting a new staffing scheme which will involve two complementary career systems, both divided into nine levels according to NATO standards, and which will increase interoperability with our allies. We now have a military staff scheme that is divided into the personnel categories of officers and a specialist corps of specialist officers, branches and constables. For officers with war schools, the new scheme will not lead to the major changes beyond the current system. They will also be added to 60 years, as the scheme works today. But the biggest changes will come under the category of personnel included in the common names specialist corps. The conversion means that short-term contracts for traineeships are changed, and these personnel will normally be fixed in the Defence, where the length of the assignment ratio will be either 35 years of age or 60 years of age. For the command that will be included in the specialist corps, the possibility of permanent addition is extended to 60 years of age. But it's worth noting that there's not automatic in this. It will always be the defence's needs and the individual's competence that will govern the length of the addition ratio. During the hearing, the length of the additive ratio was the subject. Employee organisations were all concerned that each employee of the T35 personnel category should be informed as early as possible of their ability to continue their employment after passing 35 years. The majority of the Committee supports the organisations in this respect and will clarify that the defence should clarify further addition conditions as early as possible, or at least three years before the age limit of 35. The Committee largely agrees on the implementation of the disposal system for both categories of personnel. The disagreement arises as to how long an employee can be ordered before they move to an application system where they are placed in the post upon application. As indicated in the vote, the majority supports the government's proposal to order 38-year-olds. A minority, from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, believe that the scope of the ordering system should be limited to the degrees covered by the expected duty service – for officers up to and including OF1 and for the specialist body up to OR5 – and that the transition to the application system should take place at the latest at the age of 35. Today’s decision requires the military added facility to be implemented from 1 January 2016 and to be completed by the end of 2020. In this context, the Committee would stress the importance of making implementation as painless as possible. There is a responsibility for all defence employees to contribute to building a culture of mutual respect and understanding between the two complementary career systems, in order for the new scheme to work well, and for good dialogue with the civil service organisations during the process. We will also stress that this should be done on a voluntary basis. This case deals in its entirety with the military personnel in the Defence. For my part, I would like to express the expectation that the government will come to Stortinget with a proposition dealing with the important place of civil servants in the future defence. Finally, it is important to clarify that the transition to a new personnel scheme for military personnel has a clear and clear objective of strengthening the operational capability of the defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1611	First, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the very good cooperation, which has contributed to a large consensus on the comments on the proposal. An almost agreed vision is of great importance when we today adopt changes to the new structure of defence personnel. Then I would like to congratulate the Defence for a new military addendum. Defence personnel, with the expertise and experience they possess, are at the heart of the Armed Forces' fighting force. It is therefore important to maintain and facilitate the development and maintenance of these competences. Today is a historically important day for the Defense. What we are about to adopt today will help us to maintain and continue valuable skills for the future with a full career course, including for a specialist body. Now an addition will be governed by what competence you have, not the category of personnel you belong to. The proposal implies that the standard of addition is fixed at 35 or 60 years for all categories of personnel, and officers with war schools are added to 60 years. This is a major step in the right direction, which will further build the operational capability of the defence. Today's arrangements do not provide for experience, continuity and specialised competence over time. The operational capability of the defence is not ensured in an optimal manner, for the many officers and departments serving for too short a period of time or changing positions for too many times, which in turn lead to the defence spending an unnecessary amount of time and resources on the continuous training of new personnel. So let's do something about that right now. Personnel and command systems have been thoroughly investigated over time. This proposition, with a new military arrangement, is the end of this work. Congratulations also to all those who have had visions of change and who have worked to put this system in place. The changes implemented will not only increase predictability and maintain competence, but also ensure that the defence has sufficient personnel available for operational service. The intention is that far more than today in age-independent functions will be added to 60 years. This is an improvement both for the individual and for the defence. The system shall provide a forward-looking and flexible framework enabling the defence to develop and maintain competence and contribute to the defence being an attractive employer who recruits and retains personnel within the full range of competence needs. Norway is now the last country in NATO to introduce a specialist order corps. Equally, human resources in the alliance are one of many prerequisites for facilitating increased interaction with our allies. Technological development, complex and complex operations and increasingly advanced weapon platforms increase the need for experienced and specialised personnel. The new scheme involves two complementary career systems in line with NATO standards. It is organised for the development and care of both officers with broad competence and deep-sea specialists. The scheme will provide the basis for fewer officers and more specialist officers. Changes in our security policy environment, technological development and overall societal development increase the need for flexible defence with a personnel mix characterised by a lack of skills. The core of the military profession is the exercise of military power as the ultimate means of security policy. The defence shall perform demanding tasks in peace, crisis and war. Military professional competence must therefore be given priority to the core tasks of the defence. New staff structures provide for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1634	The defence's personnel needs are unique and can be compared to other workplaces to a small extent. The challenges are many. The defence personnel structure is currently unbalanced. There is an imbalance in the age, degree and competence structure. Defence needs personnel mechanisms to promote flexibility, efficiency and operational capability. Without incentives, these are forces that partially counteract each other. The modified defence system requires highly qualified operations. Technical progress is rapid and requires more focus on competence. Today, as in the past, the defence is entirely dependent on a sufficient number of personnel who are able to perform physically demanding operational services. This requires mechanisms to ensure the necessary take-off. The Progress Party believes that the proposed changes to the Defence Personnel Act will ensure this flexibility. The defence shall be an attractive workplace. It will provide good opportunities for advancement, and too many people will find the defense an attractive place to work throughout their careers. However, for most people who are in the Defence Department, this will not be the case. Therefore, defence needs good mechanisms that make more alternatives attractive. Harmonisation of the conditions for the addition of all military personnel will ensure this. It is important to establish predictable employment. Service of 35 years with a bonus contract and service up to the retirement age reached at 60 years takes this into account. Personnel who retire at the age of 35 will do so primarily because they have a competence profile that the Defence does not need in a long-term perspective. It is natural that such a take-off mechanism is accompanied by a bonus scheme that stimulates staff to endure the addition period and facilitates the transition to a new career. The Progress Party believes that the introduction of a specialist corps will contribute to a more appropriate integration of the current departmental order and responsibilities, in particular against other NATO degree systems. The new scheme will provide a forward-looking and flexible framework that meets the defence needs to develop military professionals. It is important that this is done in line with societal and military developments. It is therefore important to put in place the new legislation. It is also positive that a new military staff scheme opens up the possibility of an adapted career system for specialists to employ more people up to the age of retirement. It must always be such that the needs of the defence are to govern the length of the additive ratio. The Progress Party therefore considers it reasonable to introduce take-off mechanisms which provide sufficient flexibility for the defence to adapt to cyclical conditions while at the same time ensuring sufficient operational staff. The defense needs both width and depth competence. The Progress Party therefore supports the government’s proposals to ensure the establishment of a system with two complementary career systems. The proposed amendment would harmonise the Norwegian scheme with other NATO military personnel schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1651	Today, we are discussing important changes in defence personnel and command systems. It's high time. The old arrangements have not been adapted to the demands of today's and tomorrow's defenses. Defence personnel are the defence's most important resource. That is why this is an important modernisation. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to listen to the workers' organisations in the Defence, and we also refer to their statements in the settings. Today, two main arrangements regulate the framework conditions for the military addition: the command system and the system of operation. Personnel and command systems are well distributed over time. The proposal for a new military order, which we are discussing today, is a continuation of this work. In this context, let me refer to our comments on the Inst competence message. 384 S for 2012–2013. Already then, the Christian People's Party – and the plural – entered in to create a specialist command corps and introduce a nationally adapted system in line with NATO's OF/OR standard. Today we can adopt reforms that make this a reality. We are now introducing a system that has two complementary career systems in line with NATO standards. This leads to a custom career path for officers with broad competence and a custom career path for command, grenaders and artists with deep competence. The military add-on scheme shall be based on four main elements: addition, disposal, advancement and education. The supplementary arrangements shall contribute to ensuring the defence of a balanced personnel structure and of the individual more diligence. Norma shall be permanently added to 35 or 60 years. The proposal implies that the addition up to 60 years will not be limited to the professional and the vertical career path as today, but that all career paths and categories of staff will have this opportunity. All militarily assigned personnel shall move to an application system after the age of 38. The Disposal Facility shall contribute to ensuring a balanced structure of competence. We must ensure the needs of both employees and employers. The solution is a combined disposal system where, in the first part of the service period, the personnel are subject to an order system and, in the remaining period, to an application system. The training system shall ensure the military professional competence necessary. I would like to underline the importance of the specialist body having its own training system to adapt to the needs of the professional career. The defence is currently experiencing an imbalance in the personnel structure. Among the servitude and departmental orders, there are too many who end too soon. At the same time, the defence is ahead of a pension wave among professional orders. The military system is proposed to replace the command and command systems. It will create a comprehensive and more transparent framework for military management. It will provide a more forward-looking system – for the benefit of both the defence personnel and the defence capabilities of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1677	It is an important matter that is on the agenda of today's Stortinget. The defence of Norway is important. We live in a time of great technological leaps in Defense. But it has been, it is and it will be so that it is those who are added, who make up our country's most important armaments, their ability to exercise operational activity, to bet on modern technology, to change and contribute at a time when we see greater challenges in the defence sector than we might have done if we look back in time for the last decade. It is important that the human resources arrangements provide operational capability. It is important that when challenges change and technology changes, the way in which a person works with them needs to change, and that is why this matter is important. It provides better possibilities for the Defense to dimension according to the need for Defense, and it provides opportunities to recruit capable people for important services. There is a big deal about this case, so I don't use time to go through all the elements. That's what others have done before me in the debate, and it's Friday, and people probably want to come home. I just want to point out that it is important that those who are going to the defense can have a good time. That is why the Committee says what it is doing, that it should know as soon as possible about a host being present. We haven't extended, we haven't seen a requirement for one to be in Defense for 60 years, as they want to join their organizations, but the Committee notes that the standard fixed addition ratio of the Departmental Command to the age of 35 is being extended to the possibility of fixed addition to the age of 60, and that one should be able to know a little earlier than today what the future will be like before a age of 35. For the Central Party, the defence of Norway is important. It is important that Norway is a strong contributor to the international mission of allies, but above all, the Norwegian defence must defend our country. Therefore, it is important that we have a capable army, a maritime defence, an air defence and home protection around the country, which can be both deterrent and can set up in a short time when needed. I have a great deal of respect for the work being done in Defense, and I believe the thing we have today will help us get an even stronger defense of our country in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1690	Today's staffing system has been fragmented and was undoubtedly ready for revision, and that's why parts of the defense wear too much touring. One needs a personnel structure that strengthens the operational capability of the defence. I feel that there is broad political consensus about that. The Hearing Officers are also consistently positive to the superior review. The main line is that the operational capability of the defence is closely related to whether the men and women who work in the sector have a good time, like their jobs, and thus provide a long time and a lot. The defence must be seen as an attractive workplace to secure the best heads and hands — and to hold them. Therefore, it is also important for us to listen to those who represent the employee organisations in the process. A consensus committee points out that high levels of turnover and the review of valuable competences are the key challenges of defence. Central hearing authorities point out that this high tournament comes from the 35-year-old age limit that currently applies to the departmental order. You want to remove the age limit and add it to 60 years. This is a requirement for which SV may sympathise. Simultaneously, simulations show that the risk of new pension waves and imbalances increases considerably if the defence chooses a practice that excludes adding all fixed to 60 years. The analyses show that if all day’s orders without basic officer training were to be permanently added to 60 years, the natural take-off would be too low to allow for recruiting even younger officers for decades to come. Such an approach would create challenges for defence and could weaken the operational potential. So we don't put ourselves on the hearing boards' point of view, even though we have a lot of respect for the thinking behind it. On the other hand, when it comes to the issue of age limit, SV believes that one should aim for the individual to decide whether one will be added to 60 years, within five years of the first addition. It is very important for the individual to have that kind of custody as early as possible, and in our view it may also be a good thing for the long-term planning of the defence. Together with the Labour Party and the Center Party, we also believe that one should be able to dispose of something shorter than the government proposes. All in all, this will be a positive contribution both to the preservation of the enormously important resource that the defence personnel are, and, hopefully, to the operational capability of the Defense, and we will join in the other comments that are in the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1703	This is a historic day for the defence staff and for the defence, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the committee and the case rapporteur and also to thank them for their insightful input into the debate. Today, Stortinget shall provide a new course for the recruitment, development and maintenance of the Defence for future personnel with the appropriate skills. The new military arrangement adopted today is a follow-up to the Report. St. 14 for 2012–2013, Competence for a New Age, and it will help strengthen our operational capability. Personnel and competence are essential to ensure that the defence in the future is able to perform its tasks. ‘We shall equip people, not manning the equipment’, as former army general inspector Per Sverre Opedal once said. That means we have to invest in the people who are going to make up the future Defense. The government's proposal for a new military order is just about that: we put the people and the competence of the driver's seat. We can be proud of the defence personnel, both the military and the civilian. Personnel are competent, they have good attitudes and high ethical awareness — and they show that every day in operations both nationally and internationally. At the same time as the staff perform, the government has over time seen a number of challenges related to the human resources systems that hamper flexibility, efficiency and operational capability. Today's arrangements are unnecessarily complicated. They do not provide sufficient flexibility to make the necessary adjustments in line with new needs. Parts of the scheme go all the way back to the 1960s and are far out of date. However, the main challenge is the lack of a separate career path for our specialists. Today’s career system is based on the unitary command system, vertically oriented, to train managers with broad competence, and it is special for Norway that we do not have a career path adapted to horizontal developments in depth competence. We are therefore very pleased that the Storting today adopts a promise for the specialists by establishing a specialist corps. The specialist body represents the backbone of the future Defence and will represent both continuity and professional competence. A modern defense depends entirely on this competence, and the specialist corps will create recognition and respect for the professional worker in the defense. The creation of an adapted career path for specialists together with their own educational system and their own pay system is a major challenge. The introduction of the specialist body is also a harmonisation with NATO countries. It is a government objective to distort resource use from management to operational purposes. A way to achieve this is to simplify today's rules and make the competence of the governing factor. The government proposes that the defence should have three additional conditions: temporary addition, addition to 35 years and addition to 60 years. The last two must be the norm. The nature of the conditions of addition depends on the competence of the personnel and also on the needs of the defence. If the defence wants to give a branch or order an addition to 60 years, it is possible in the new scheme to do so without the personnel having to change category or career path. Putting the specialist career into a lifelong perspective will increase the attractiveness, predictability and clarity of the scheme. The defence will thus be better equipped to recruit and retain personnel in this category. Those taking off officer training shall continue to be added to the retirement age. The defence's ability to recruit and maintain competence is cyclical. A take-off mechanism is necessary to provide the necessary flexibility, while ensuring sufficient availability for operational service. Without take-off mechanisms, there will be a high age imbalance of risk over time and it is not compatible with increased requirements for preparedness, stamina and aggravated clear times. The Government therefore proposes to continue the permanent addition to 35 years in order to ensure operational capability and flexibility. We're going to use a practice of clarifying the length of the addition ratio as early as possible. The government also proposes to introduce an order system for lower grades. This will improve predictability for both the employee and the employer. It is also important to contribute to reducing the high rotation of defence today. We have had long-standing challenges with staff changing positions too often. All categories of staff change positions more frequently than the general rule of three years, on average, for orders of employment 2.2 years, and for orders of the department and 1.5 years. It does not help you to get the continuity and depth of competence to – and not just to rotate your position, you also rotate out of your field of competence. All the government does in defence policy has one goal: to increase the operational capacity of defence. Human beings and competences are the key to achieving that. Sometimes there is a need to make radical changes, and the decision of the Stortinget today is such a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1731	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1735	Both the Council of State and I concluded our submissions by saying that the aim is to strengthen our defence capability. To succeed, we need the employees on the team. But when one reads the play from the Commandant's Joint Organisation and their opinions, it may seem that the road may be slightly more winding than expected. The winter night is approaching, the defense is getting rid of employees at its best age, and our defense will be weakened – this was some of their message in the public space. Neither do the other employee organisations call for an unconditional hurrah. My question to the Council of State will then be: How will the Council of State respond to it in my opinion a little harsh criticism from, for example. Command Joint Organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1744	There has been good and extensive cooperation with employee organisations throughout this process. Since we started in the autumn of 2013, there have been seven joint meetings with the organisations, and there has also been extensive dialogue between these meetings. We also have a so-called contact forum in the department that regularly meets the organisations. There has also been this topic. They have been invited to come, and have also made, many good and constructive recordings. Among other things, some of the things we have investigated have come on the basis of the wishes of the organisations, and we suggest that we continue to have the good dialogue with the organisations in this field, because it is quite right that the representative Simensen says: these are the organisations of the employees, and we depend on having them on the team as well. It should be said that many of the objections that come now have been there for many years, especially with regard to the 35-year limit. So it's not a new objection, but we've chosen to continue it to have some take-off stimulation mechanisms to avoid a wrong balance in the age structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1751	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1756	It's an important issue we're debating today, where the personnel and their skills are put in the high seat to build operational capability. Today’s arrangements are unnecessarily complex and do not provide sufficient flexibility to make the necessary adjustments, in line with new needs. In addition, they are partially out of date, and it is high time for a change adapted to the current and future defences. The current system also helps to reduce operational capacity through high final rates and a lack of continuity. Those who remain change their position all too often, as many people have been involved. This helps to turn resource access from operational purposes to training and training of new personnel. The new system we are discussing today involves merging several schemes. There is also work to merge several of the defence’s personnel: the Civil Protection Act, the Defence Personnel Act and the Home Protection Act. One shall update the language theme and make all these simpler and more leasable. In total, this will make the legal basis more transparent and more accessible, and that is good. Civil society is not part of the military system, but it is an important personnel group, with a great deal of competence. In the future, we should, as a general rule, apply officers in positions where military competence is required. For positions in, among others: administration, economy and administration, where military background is not a prerequisite, should be recruited civil personnel. In the future, the defence will need more personnel with higher education from civil colleges and universities, as well as the education that the defence itself stands for. This is also pointed out in the big message Competence for a new time. This applies, for example: for categories such as doctors, priests, lawyers, engineers, etc. When recruiting academics, Defence will compete with both industry and other sectors of the public sector for young people with attractive education and many opportunities. In order to ensure good recruitment, the system of compulsory academic command should be strengthened and further developed. In order to maintain such competence in defence, the arrangements for those categories of officers should be made even more flexible and competitive. Among other things, these categories of officers must be given the status and educational and career opportunities of the Defence which ensure this competence for the Defence in the future. But all in all – this is a historically important day for the modernisation process of defence in a critical time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1771	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1785	Just a very brief comment as the rapporteur. The Government’s proposal for the regulation of the ‘Regulatory additions to outsourced vulnerable teams’ is the tradition of faith based on the outcome of the wage settlement between the State and the LO State, the YS State, the Union and the Academics. That means it's increasing by 0.2 pst. with effect from 1 July 2015. So the underlying thing is in line with previous practice. And it's strictly not so much more to say about this, but let me add -- since we're now discussing guardians and people in first-time service -- that it might also be tempting to consider other framework conditions, physical facilities and attitudes in the case of men and women in first-time service. It's not the theme today. I would like to refer to a debate that was last night in Stortinget, in the light of the position of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on the annual report of the Ombudsman’s Department of Defence, and also, of course, to the forthcoming long-term plan and to the recommendation of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs. I think it is important that, after the introduction of a general duty of protection, which therefore includes the duty of protection for women, we also look closely at other framework conditions in the defence of people in the first-time service than those relating to the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1794	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1808	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply be given by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1817	The investment proposal currently under consideration by the Storting includes six new investment projects. In addition, the proposal includes a change to an already approved project as well as information on some other projects. The size is invited to support the cost framework for three new construction projects. At Ørland Aviation Station, approval of a new maintenance building and new main infrastructure for the fighter aircraft F-35 and at Bardufoss air station is requested for approval for the construction of a new fire station. On the material side, the projects include the upgrade of Leopard 2 tanks, the Battle Air Protection to the Army and the intermediate solution for the Ula class submarines. A Joint Committee endorses the launch of those projects. The defence's investment in materials has a major impact on the defence's future ability to fight. The defence’s ability to defend the country or contribute to various missions beyond the borders of Norway is not something that can be switched on and off by a switch, depending on the current threat picture at any time. The acquisition of combat systems is a time-consuming process, and the delivery time of an advanced system is likely to survive several state councils and a few heads of defense. This means that the defense's planning must be firmly anchored far into the future, so that it is possible to phase in systems, at the same time that older systems are phased out. It is not acceptable for Norway to remain without strategically important capacity due to replacement of existing systems. While replacing another system of fighting, it is important to consider whether a more technologically advanced system in one area can make investment in another area superfluous. Where technological innovation results in a significant increase in the operational capacity of a system, this should be taken into account in other fields. In order for a system to be phased in, sufficient infrastructure to enable the reception of new material must be built at the same time. The investment proposition takes these conditions into account. While the phase-in of F-35 is under way, the necessary infrastructure is constructed to allow the reception and maintenance of the fighter aeroplanes. These two projects have a cost of 1430 million, respectively. SEK and 288 million. kr. Upgrading of Leopard 2 tanks is central if the Army is to maintain its fighting capability beyond 2020. The upgrade means that the vehicles are considered to be a combat system through a combination of the mobility, protection and firepower of the vehicles. The cost framework is above 2.6 billion. kr. Furthermore, the army will have the capacity to provide direct air protection support through the acquisition of a combat air protection battery. The costs are estimated at 900 million. kr. In this project, it is natural that the Norwegian defence industry plays a major role. Air protection is the most successful export effort in the Norwegian defence industry. The defense has since the cooperation started more than 30 years ago, acquired air protection from Norwegian industry to a value of 2 billion. kr. Norwegian industry’s exports of air protection during the same period amount to about 12 billion. kr. This has provided significant national value creation, large revenues to the state, innovation, technology development and many hundreds of high-tech competence jobs in large parts of the country. More than 100 small and medium-sized enterprises have delivered to air protection projects. With this as a backstop, it is essential that the fighting air protection project exploits the national air protection competence so that the Norwegian industry is guaranteed the best possible basis for becoming the main supplier of fighting air protection to the Army. It will both ensure that the Army is provided with its combat air protection at a minimum technical risk and strengthen the competitiveness of the Norwegian defence industry in the international air protection market. The six Ula class submarines of marine defense are approaching the end of their technical lifetime. In order to extend this for four of the boats, it is proposed to improve safety on board while replacing unsafe parts and to acquire new spare parts. The solution is an intermediate solution with an estimated cost of 529 million. kr. In order to ensure the necessary availability of competence, material and services, it is important to have a competent and competitive Norwegian defence industry. Development and acquisition of defence systems are expensive. It is therefore important that these acquisitions be put into a broader societal perspective. If people are to give their support to billions of investments in new and increasingly advanced defence equipment, it is essential that the Norwegian defence industry be given a central role, both as system supplier, subsystem supplier and component supplier. Such deliveries must be part of the systems that Norway acquires, but Norwegian authorities must also make clear requirements that ensure the supply of Norwegian defence industries, such as the whole series production of different systems. It will provide economies of scale and ensure the competitiveness of the Norwegian defence industry. The approach demonstrates that there is a broad majority in the Committee that strategic cooperation between defence, research and development environments and industry must be based on the needs of defence. The majority are also clear that this cooperation should be strengthened and include both national and international projects. An active defence industry policy will contribute to increased value creation in Norway and ensure important national competences.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1845	Clear priorities and increased resources for defence are needed. The investments we are currently providing funds to provide a proper device to ensure the necessary modernisation and help to increase the operational capability of the Defence Agency. Let me first draw the funds to the F-35 area of Ørland Main Aviation Station. The F-35 project is the most important individual investment we have. The defence is now implementing important projects, including squadron construction, new maintenance building and extending the runway. This provides the project with the essential upgrades it needs and ensures overall operation and infrastructure. We also make investments that are important for the future of the Army. The investments ensure the modernisation of the mechanized manoeuvring battalions on Rena in the Østerdalen and Setermoen in Inner Troms. This is in line with the long-term objective of further development and strengthening this field. The war chariot Leopard is together with the tank CV-90 spearhead in the Norwegian defense. Now these are being modernised and will constitute a significant fighting force. It is now also being invested in the mobile combat air protection project for the artillery battalion in Brigade Nord. It was also made clear to the committee when we were visiting during the winter exercise in winter. Fighting air protection will provide direct air protection support to the manoeuvring departments of the brigades. Overall, these investments ensure ground activity, increase fighting ability, perseverance and mobility and, in some cases, constitute a credible war-prevention threshold. For a number of years, the Norwegian defence industry has been an important contributor to both modernisation and technology in these projects, and continued involvement of research and development environments is therefore important in the future. Finally, I would like to highlight the investment project in Maritime Defence. The upgrade of four of the six Ula class submarines will ensure safety on board these vessels and ensure that they are kept operational until 2020. At the same time, there is a gradual replacement of new submarines. The submarine project will involve strategic cooperation between the Defence, Research and Development Environments and industry. It will be important in the future to base work on the needs of the defence, with an industrial objective of ensuring significant national value creation within the framework of future acquisitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1860	We are discussing an important theme today. The centre party supports what is contained in the proposition, where planned investments in the defence are followed up. The defence challenge that Norway is facing today is different than the one that many saw for a short time. For a long time, many saw Russia heading for a stable democracy. At the same time, many point out that the integration into Europe made war unmistakable. Developments in the last few years have shown that we cannot take any action at all. Russia has moved in the wrong direction. At the same time, the security image has changed significantly in other parts of the world. Middle East is a example. The danger of terror in Norway cannot be ignored. The Norwegian defence must be prohibited on many different scenarios. Of course, next to the national defence, Article 5 of the NATO Charter is our guarantee of freedom. The defence debate has grown up in Norway in the last year. Several people with a long speed in the defense are clear that the rights of the defense must be increased, the investments must be increased, the defence must be rebuilt. Among other things, Jacob Børresen throws in a fire torch when he warned the government on 16 March this year that the entire defense would collapse if there was a war. The reduction of defence is, as he describes it, a weakening of the functional state and the structure of the whole economy and our community is building on. Norway's existence is essentially dependent on us having the courage to defend and enforce sovereignty over what is our territory. There is a need for increased investment in defence. While it may take decades to build good defense structures, the threat image can change in months, weeks, even days. It's too late to insure the house when it burns, and it's too late to buy defense equipment when one needs it. We have to invest in material we hope we never need. Long-term thinking and planning are decisive. Long-term planning is also behind the investments to be made by the Stortinge today and to which the Stortinge will join. We must always live with a certain level of threat. We cannot invest in total security. Therefore, human beings in Defence are as important as we have been within today. There's a lot of defense in Norway, and it represents a formidable force. It can't be bought for money. On the other hand, it can be important equipment that the same people can use to defend countries and people. Defence will have to be built on. This is not least where the Home Office and the National Security Institute are important. The modernisation of defence equipment must also be further developed. This is why the long-term plan that we are about to implement is so important. What we are adopting today is the result of work in the previous long-term plan. It is the follow-up of a long-awaited and attached investment. It is part of a necessary upgrade — an upgrade that needs to be intensified and built on in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1875	The proposals presented in this proposition clearly state that the government is following up the needs outlined in the long-term plan to continue modernising defence. As the representative Navarsete was in the room, it's important to maintain the defense even in times when the world looks calmer. At the same time, work on a new long-term plan has shown that needs, shortcomings and challenges are high in many places. Among other things, the challenges of lack of maintenance over time are great, and not least, many of the challenges we are now seeing have grown over a long period of time. The proposal contains proposals for the approval of investments in both high-tech materials and property, construction and civil engineering. The sum is about 6.5 billion. kr. The Proposition also provides up-to-date information on the fighter base on Örland and the need for runway revalidation. In addition, investment in medical equipment for the defense NH90 helicopters, the need for submarine capacity after 2020 and sensors for military airspace monitoring are informed. In June 2012, the Stortinge decided on the location and establishment of the main base of the Defence Force's new fighter aircraft on Ørland. The establishment of the base is an important investment in our security. The infrastructure necessary for the reception of the first aeroplanes must be clear in the autumn of 2017 to ensure the phase-in of aeroplanes. I'm not going to conceal that building the fighter aircraft base on Ørland is a demanding process for all parties. There are many factors that are not yet fully known and that may affect the solutions chosen. There is still some uncertainty as to the level of safety to be established on the basis, in the light of changes in the security policy situation and also as to the possible cost implications of the regulatory planning process. However, I am sure that by continuing the good and thorough work currently in progress, we will have a forward-looking national fighter base. In this proposition, the government is proposing an investment project for the construction of new maintenance buildings for our fighter aircraft. The maintenance building will be located close to other operational capacities and the simulator environment for maximum use of available resources. The work is planned to be completed in the autumn of 2017 and is a prerequisite for us to be able to operate F-35 from Ørland in the same year. The fight light base on Ørland consists of a number of technical installations and, in order to ensure the functioning of installations, the New Main Infrastructure F-35 project proposes to increase the capacity of existing infrastructure and connect new functions to existing networks. Brigade Nord is the Army's main element in the mobile defense. Modern tanks are a prerequisite for creating forward-looking and powerful mechanised battalions with great mobility, protection and firepower. The government therefore proposes that the battle tanks Leopard 2 be upgraded with a new guidance system, new night-capacity screening devices and digitised firing line system. The army has been without air protection since 2004. In order to ensure that Brigade Nord maintains the necessary fighting power, it is important to have access to a resilient air protection system. The government therefore proposes in this proposition to acquire fighting air protection for the Army. The six Ula-class submarines were put into service in Defense between 1989 and 1992. The conclusion of extensive conceptual studies on future submarine capacity suggests that updates and replacements of components are necessary and to acquire spare parts to keep our submarines technically operational towards 2025-2028. The government is therefore proposing to implement the Midlöst Ula class project. The government took a decision last year on the principle of replacement rather than the life extension of submarines when they fall for life, but this is an intermediate solution to keep the existing submarines operational. A competitive Norwegian defence industry is important for Norway. Competitive and innovative defence companies contribute to significant value creation in Norwegian society. This is a matter for the government to be concerned about, related to any future submarine acquisition. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Committee is joining the government's proposal for investment in Defence. The projects are all important contributions to maintaining a credible and relevant defence in what we all know is a more demanding security policy time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1903	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1906	First, I would like to thank and agree with the rapporteur and others who have highlighted the importance of having a national, competent defence industry, not least in terms of our operational capability. What I want to ask the Council of State about concerns the North Cape class of the Coast Guard, which was far ahead of technology when it was introduced more than 30 years ago. Now the lifetime starts to go to the end, and so we have to do something. The situation in the northern regions is changing constantly, and in order to meet the challenges that are coming, we need to be as rusted as possible. That is why the 2013 budget announced that we would purchase a new helicopter-bearing and ice-reinforced vessel that was to be phased into 2016. My question is: what will the Ministry do to ensure modern and adapted vessels for the Coast Guard in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1913	The Coast Guard is a very important capacity for the Defence and Norway. They are on the patrol with everything they have of ships, mostly all the time, and are very important – both military for sovereignty and the exercise of authority and as assistance to civil authorities when needed. As the government briefed in the 2015 budget proposal, we are going to upgrade all of the North Cape class vessels to keep them operational and to be able to sail until 2020. After all, they were put into service early in the 1980s and are seen as very ageing vessels. It has also been important for us to stress that we now, when there was a proposal for the acquisition of a new vessel, see it in conjunction with two others and thus also have the opportunity to negotiate contracts that are more favourable. But now they have to be upgraded to keep sailing until 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1922	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1938	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to up to 5 minutes to each party group and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1947	Let me first thank the Committee for a good – and short – cooperation last week. There is a concerted concern in the Committee on Development that we unfortunately see in the construction industry – social dumping, recruitment problems and an ever-increasing element of unprofessional and criminal actors. This makes it difficult for the serious operators to compete in the market. The Committee therefore fully agrees that stronger tools are needed to facilitate the seriousness of the work and to help recruit and build skills in the construction industry. Once again, I would like to be allowed to praise an overall construction industry, which last year presented the report ‘Simple to be serious’ with proposals for a new central approval for businesses. It is a strong and important signal when both the employer and the employee sides are united in this matter. Today we are discussing the first part of this proposal, and the Committee supports the government's proposal to extend the criteria for central approval. The Committee has also proposed a new regulatory home that opens up so that, for example, paint companies and cleaning companies can now be covered by the authorisation system. There is some disagreement in the committee about what is the description of the way forward, and I want from now on to explain the views of the Labour Party. Let me first say that it would have been a great advantage if the Storting had got this case processed earlier. We could then follow ordinary proceedings with consultation in what is a big, important and partly complicated matter. Then I want to say that I'm glad that in committee mode we're taking some steps in the right direction. But I am disappointed that we have not reached an agreement on one of the most important elements, namely Module 2. Indeed, Module 2 is essential for combating unprofessional and criminal actors in the ROT and subcontracting markets. The Labour Party has listened to an overall construction industry, which has repeatedly stressed that their proposal for a new central approval is an overall proposal. The construction industry has warned against picking out individual elements of the proposal and has been aware that the whole needs to be put in place to strengthen the fight against unprofessional and criminal actors. Last week, Jon Sandnes, in the BNL, said on the BNL website: ‘The size now has a historic opportunity to create seriousness in the industry.’ And on the other hand, ‘If the Storting is now asking the Government to introduce Module 2 in combination with effective first-line supervision, this is an important signal that the Storting is taking the challenges of the black and unprofessional market seriously.’ Unfortunately, I note that the majority in this case did not seize this historic opportunity. Only the Working Party together with SV and the Centre party clearly states that Module 2 has to be investigated and introduced as part of the central approval system. I find it alarming that the majority still expresses uncertainty about Module 2, when we know that the local authorisation system is lapsed on 1 January 2016 and that the majority also opens up the possibility of establishing a separate authorisation system for the ROT and subcontracting market. Let me be very clear on behalf of the Workers' Party: we fear that a fragmentation in different approval systems will weaken the fight against the unprofessional and criminal actors. We want a central approval covering the entire contract chain. We are also clear that a module 2 must include, for example, paint and cleaning companies, as the committee now opens up, could be an opportunity, and we ask the government to investigate a registration system for work on property. Today we adopt the first bases for enhanced central approval. But there is a lot left, and I want to quote from the joint press release that was sent out by Jon Sandnes in the BNL and Arve Bakke in the Joint Association today, who writes: ‘A significant effort remains to explore solutions for the new scheme. This work is urgent.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e1988	This is a matter that the government submitted to Stortinget at the end of May, and already today Stortinget has it for treatment for the first time. Like the case spokesman, I would like to thank the Committee for giving priority to dealing with this matter at a hectic time and presenting it to the Stortinge in an exceptionally rapid manner. In particular, I would like to thank the case spokesman, Stine Renate Håheim, for her steady and thorough work in the committee at this stage. Why is it important to deal with this matter now? It is because we are all concerned about working towards black work, illegal pay and working conditions, money laundering and tax evasion, which is a major social problem. The legislative changes we are now making by establishing central recognition will be an important step in the fight against these challenges. It has been important for us in the Progress Party and the rest of the Committee to be able to deal with this matter now, so that the government will have the chance to draw up the necessary regulations and have them approved and adopted before 1 January 2016, so that we have the regulations in place at the same time as the local approval system disappears. I would also like to thank the construction industry, which has been an important contributor to this work, in particular through their work on the report ‘Simple to be serious’. In general, as the case-leader said, there is a broad consensus in the Committee on the Main Lines here. There are some areas for which she did the right thing, which one is a little bit disunity about. One is in the follow-up to the report ‘Simple to be serious’ on the obligation to register for work above 1⁄2 G. It is suggested that the company register all work above 1⁄2 G. So it's pretty little work before you have to register it. The party of progress thought it would be too bureaucratic to have a system where one is obliged to register. For this reason, we, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have the order that one should look at a registration scheme, but not a registration obligation, for which the other parties in their comments wish to enter. The second nuance that one is not quite clear about either, is what is attached to Module 2, for which the case-speaker did well. I still thought the case spokesperson used a little strong words when she said that one had a historical possibility that one did not go for. In fact, there's only one slight difference in hue: the red-green parties say that a module 2 should be arranged to introduce it, while the plural parties, i.e. the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party, say that one should sort it out and that it can be one of many possibilities to achieve the same. There's little nuance differences here, and there's no reason to say that there's a lot of discomfort at this point. We're, on the same line as the case spokesman, busy looking at module 2, but we don't want to just lock ourselves to it as the only tool. Apart from the two shades, there is a joint committee that essentially proposes to make the necessary legislative changes, so that the government has the power to bring the regulations it considers necessary, in order to obtain a central approval on 1 January 2016, which will be important. We also give authority to put in place regulations that allow one to equip the central approval with the necessary advantages for the companies that will voluntarily register in the scheme, for example. a total or partial exemption from the requirement of independent control, which would make this an attractive arrangement for the companies registering in the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e2005	Many have expressed concern about the development of the construction industry in recent years. In everyday life and in the media, we encounter stories of social dumping, black work and unprofessional actors. The Christian People's Party is pleased that today we continue the clearing job in regulations and laws to both improve and prevent conditions that the industry itself has pointed out. We are particularly pleased that the processing has almost been carried out at the expense of the industry itself and political Norway. The basic principle of this case is that it must be easier to be serious and more difficult to be unprofessional in the construction industry. It must be a fundamental tone in everything, life and learning, to be reflected in a law. This is important for both policyholders, citizens, industry and society. The prevalence of undeclared work, illegal pay and work guidelines, money laundering and tax evasion are a major societal problem. This is not a new problem, but it has increased in scope. It is a multiplicity and complex cause and effect of this. The construction industry deserves tribute for its grip on this and for last year’s report on ‘Simple to be serious’. The Government’s proposal for the Storting to introduce a new voluntary central recognition system and the introduction of new requirements to ensure seriousness and a level playing field is an important step towards resolving this problem. The committee acts, as I see it, collectively on the main steps in this matter. It is, as we have heard, some nuances related to the investigation of Module 2 which deal with undertakings that do not have responsibility and whether or not they are to be part of the central approval system. We're satisfied that this is being illuminated as part of the investigation of this module. Towards the end of the vote, the Christian People's Party has addressed a theme that is at the edge of this law's scope and issue, but within which the topic is clear. In fact, if we're going to get rid of an unculture, there must also be systems that are both simple to use and that are generally accepted. It has to be made easier to act neatly for people in their daily lives. In private maintenance services, there is a lot of self-sufficiency, where a well-known craftsman is hired to help him. There is a need for simplification of tax reporting in the private market. In these cases, most people want to be clean and pay white, resulting in extensive paperwork, and many people give up the breakup. We therefore want the Ministry to take the initiative towards the tax authorities and the Ministry of Finance to develop simplified reporting methods to make it easier to opt out of black payment. The Christian People's Party wants today's amendment to the law on the central approval of enterprises to be a right step in the right direction. This is an area where we want to help unprofessional actors and black work to be eliminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e2022	We are now dealing with a case in which an overall industry, both the employer and the employee sides, agree on measures that can give more orderly conditions in the construction industry. They have presented the report ‘Simple to be serious’ and have proposed a number of measures that can contribute to a more serious industry. It was the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation that in May 2014 challenged the industry to make proposals, and the industry acted quickly. Already last August, the report was handed over. It is a disappointing construction industry, and once again the employer and employee sides fully agree when they conclude that the government is very limited in following up the proposals they have made. An important background to the case we are dealing with is that the requirement for local approval of companies, which was legalised by Stortinget and which was to be implemented in January 2016, has been withdrawn as a result of its signing by ESA. As a result, an important tool for ensuring the quality and seriousness of the construction industry disappeared. The government has spent too much time, too long, proposing alternatives. A single committee points out that the proposal for the suspension of local approval was examined by the Stortingen one year ago and that the proposals for new and alternative schemes for the construction industry were promoted shortly after. The central party therefore believes that the government should have promoted the legislative proposal at a much earlier stage, and that one should have seen all the proposals from the report ‘Simple to be serious’ in the context and presented them to the Stortinget as a whole. From the industry, there is a particular criticism that the Ministry does not promote proposals for the introduction of measures for what is referred to as Module 2 in the report ‘Simple to be serious’ — that of non-responsible undertakings. The Ministry points out that they wanted investigations before promoting that bill. The industry says it is precisely in this part of the market that there are challenges with unqualified and unprofessional actors. The proposals for action in the report would have made it possible for serious operators to be selected, and there is a strong desire from an overall industry, both large and small, for them to be introduced. In a letter to the Municipal and Administrative Committee of the Building Masters Association, the following is added: ‘It is found that the industry’s proposal in the report ‘Simple to be serious’, whether an automated registration system on the ROT market is not included. This despite the fact that it would contribute to a clean-up in a market that represents an estimated annual volume of $65 billion. The benefits of such a scheme will be enhanced consumer safety, improved construction quality and corporate accountability.’;» I think the Building Masters' Association and other hearing bodies are right. I also understand that this is shared by an overall committee, which, in various comments, underlines the importance of Module 2 being identified as part of the central approval system. In a joint comment from the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party, we point out that there is a need for simplification also for tax reporting for smaller private-market jobs. In its 2015 alternative budget, the Central Party proposed that Norway introduce a tax deduction for limited work in the areas of rehabilitation, refurbishment and minor additions, the so-called ROT deduction. We know that Sweden, which has introduced this, has good experience. Tax deductions, which benefit consumers, are compensated by increased tax receipts from service providers. The ROT market in Sweden is largely money-laundered by this measure. The centre party believes that we should do the same in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e2044	SV will also vote in favour of these proposals, and we agree with what has been said by the case rapporteur. This is actually one of the small links in the fight to make our welfare state sustainable, because unfortunately there are now such major changes in the labour market, including in the construction industry, where there are billions being neglected, where labour regulations are confusing, and where honest businesses do not have a single opportunity to compete with those who commit crime. It is also true that consumers, or those who need a service and who want to buy ‘white’, have serious problems in getting it done. So this is an important piece, and it has to be taken further, as the case-rapporteur said in his post. I also want to give credit to the construction industry here, but there are problems in a lot of industries. This must be handled in a comprehensive and thorough manner. A great many are concerned with simplification, and that this should be easy for businesses, authorities and consumers alike. It is a very good goal, but when you look at the creativity of these industries to avoid following rules – both in terms of the working environment and safety, in terms of wages, in terms of the payment of taxes and the financial commitments you have – it is good to look for simple solutions. But I'm probably a little in doubt about it, because here it's so that the most sharp-eyed people from Ecocrim and the Labour Inspectorate don't always manage to gobble up in these very difficult conditions. There's so much money to earn by avoiding taxes and engaging in social dumping that I think we don't have to be so naive that we think this is easy to solve with simple registration schemes. There must be both registration schemes that actually reflect actual circumstances, and there must be control mechanisms at state level that make the risk of being discovered in fraud very high, and that the consequences, when discovered, are that it is economical, because it is so profitable. Finally, the main factor here to keep this in as serious a way as possible is that we also strengthen the level of organisation on the employee side. It is absolutely essential that we keep a much higher level of organisation than the one we have in some of the other industries – construction and installations are of the best – where this unprofessionality is about to break. That's exactly why module 2 is so important to get started. That's why it's so important not just to consider figuring it out – I know a little about that kind of departmental cotton, to put it like that – but the point here is that it has to be done. We have to decide to do what the construction industry says is necessary in order for them to be able to have little control over this. Therefore, it is also so important that the entire contract chain is covered by the obligation of supervision and supervision. Indeed, the development of the labour market now is a sub-contract to a sub-contract with some manning company. If you can't control the whole chain, this just becomes a kind of shell where there's a lot of stuff going on inside anyway, completely unprofessional. So I'm glad that everyone agrees on the direction here, but I'm probably afraid that here it has to be sharper – harder pinch – to get this done. So finally to ROT deductions and RUT deductions. I probably don't agree with the representative from the Central Party in that matter, and I find it completely unnecessary that people who can afford to have domestic help and to clean up their kitchen will get tax deductions for that kind of thing, but honest businesses and honest work should be made easier to get to than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e2057	I will first of all be allowed to thank the Committee for a quick examination of an important proposal, and a special thank you to the case rapporteur, Stine Renate Håheim, who has done a good job with this matter in a very short time. This is an important matter for the government. This is an important issue for the construction industry. It was, as has already been said, on my own initiative that the construction industry delivered the report ‘Simple to be serious’. I challenged the construction industry last May, and last August they delivered the report. It is a strength in this work that there is broad cooperation in the construction industry. We have a good and close cooperation with the industry in this area, and I am pleased that the industry has given the government recognition and commendation for the proposals we have now presented to the Stortinget. The objective of the proposed amendments is to make it easier to be serious and more unprofessional to the operators in the construction industry. The legislative proposal provides for regulatory frameworks which require the central recognition of undertakings to be based on serious requirements in addition to the requirements applicable to professional qualifications. Provision is also made for incentives to facilitate construction for authorised undertakings where the quality assurance of the undertakings has become so good that the municipalities can have confidence that the undertakings comply with the legislation. The government is concerned about black work and social dumping in the construction industry. In addition to the harmful effect of these conditions on society, they also make it difficult for serious undertakings to compete with unprofessional undertakings. Consumer enterprises in the construction industry are also likely to lead to poor quality. As a result of a visit to Norway by ESA, from 1 January 2016, the requirement for responsible undertakings to be approved by the municipality ceases to apply. Then we lose an element of the quality assurance of construction measures. The government has worked quickly to get this bill in place. It also follows up the government's strategy against the crime of working life. We have developed this strategy in cooperation with the trade union movement and others, and we are now also following up proposals from the report ‘Simple to be serious’. In the proposal, the government is in principle promoting proposals for rules within the building legislation, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. The government’s overall response to the crime of working life will be a combination of actions promoted and implemented by responsible authorities in their fields. In the proposal, we propose a basis for central recognition to include key societal requirements, in particular tax payments and requirements under the Working Environment Act. Such requirements will enable undertakings to demonstrate that they operate legally. The market for craft enterprises is inconclusive and new central approval requirements will help to make it easier to find serious firms. It is important that new requirements do not become more burdensome for centrally approved undertakings than is strictly necessary. It is also important that the follow-up of the requirements by the authorities does not become bureaucratic and resource-intensive. Therefore, as far as possible, the collection of information shall be done by electronic and automated means. The legislative proposal also includes regulatory support to extend central approval with new elements. The central approval shall be capable of demonstrating whether undertakings are approved as a training establishment. A regulatory helmet is also proposed for a so-called module 2 in central approval. Where appropriate, such authorisation shall be granted to undertakings carrying out works which do not require liability. Such entities operate as subcontractors or in the ROT market. Black work and challenges with unqualified and unprofessional actors are significant in this market. Module 2 may be a possible instrument. The home meal has been included in the proposition after the consultation in order to include Module 2 when examining possible solutions to the problems in the ROT market. It is proposed that the regulations should also apply to works which are not themselves covered by the Law on Planning and Building. There are a number of issues that need to be clarified before choosing to introduce a module 2 or to find other tools. Such a scheme will be significantly more extensive than the existing central approval, which includes approximately: 15,000 enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e2085	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e2088	State councils were involved in Module 2, i.e. the approval of companies without liability. We know that there are major challenges both in the ROT and under-contracting markets, and the construction industry has very strongly underlined the importance of getting it in place. I'm glad that there's a warrant in place, so you can go on with it, but my question is, what time perspective does the Council of State have on landing that matter, when will you start to investigate? We know that local approval ends from New Year, so these are things that are urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e2093	Action in this area has been necessary. The challenges of black work are nothing new. The challenges of unprofessionalism are not new either. Local authorisation has not been a good enough tool to deal with this. That is why I am pleased that we are now putting in place the central approval, and we believe that it could be a good tool, also because we are now including other elements to assess. We are going to start assessing quickly, but we are committed to finding the best possible measures, and therefore I am pleased that the Committee today does not finally conclude with which concrete solutions to be chosen. This has to be professionally based, and I stress that we have a good and close cooperation with the industry and with the trade union movement in this area, and that is what we are going to have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e2099	That's why you're a little worried, because it's so unclear how to follow Module 2 – and precisely because it comes from the industry. They say it's an entire package, and that it needs to be connected. I also need to ask the Council of State about this with the entire contract chain in terms of the responsibility for inspection and control, because some of the problem here is that there are long contract chains that it is difficult to understand. Some people have to be responsible for seeing that it is not only in the first paragraph that unprofessionalism can occur; it is equally likely to occur down the contract chain. And it can be difficult to control, I'm fully aware of it, but if you don't, then unfortunately, the experience is that there's financial crime associated with subcontracting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e2104	Let me again show that the report provided by the industry was delivered after I challenged it to cooperate on this, and also to cooperate with the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. We're still going through some of the proposals that they have. We are committed to taking action on a broad front, and therefore the government also has its own comprehensive strategy to combat labour-life crime. I think it's a good thing that the opposition is impatient, but I notice that there are parties that have been in government for eight years, so you could perhaps afford to give some recognition also that this government is implementing all the necessary measures to combat the unprofessionalism of the industry. So I'm concerned that what we're doing, we're also going to do it really. That is why we are investigating and receiving professionally qualified advice on the actions we are going to pursue in the follow-up to this strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e2111	There is no debate without eight years in government, I understand. We're going to do that for a long time. I heard no one who said this was not good. On the contrary, I think this is better than the local approval that has been before. The question is whether it will be good enough to meet the problems it is going to deal with. The reason I'm expressing that concern is that the construction industry has just said that this is a package, and it has to stick together for it to work. So that's not my word, that's the word of the construction industry. The second is that I have experience of sitting for eight years, not in government seas, but in Stortinget, and then the situation unfortunately was that both government parties systematically voted against many of the most effective instruments against social dumping. You have not gone in to remove more of them than a court of law that the trade unions have. However, that means that there is an interest in seeing how to go about this forcefully with instruments that actually work – and that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e2118	I did not realize that there was any question in that line. Let me just show you again that we have a good cooperation with the industry. The industry – the whole construction industry – gives the government great recognition for the follow-up we are now doing. The fact that we also have a prescription opening for Module 2 makes it possible to move on. But we're concerned that what we're doing, we're going to do really. We are going to pursue the best solutions and – I would like to stress – the least bureaucratic solutions, because on that point I disagree with the representative Karin Andersen. We also need to think about red tape and simplification when we do this. I believe that we're going to find good solutions that will make it easier to be serious, to fight the unprofessional, while not putting too many new burdens on the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e2127	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e2136	We're now ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e2160	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3 from Sveinung Rotevatn on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal Nos shall be put to the vote as a whole. 1 to 3. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to work for an international binding agreement prohibiting nuclear weapons.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a declaration, or a promise, corresponding to the promise given by Austria after the Vienna International Conference in December 2014 to work to stigmatise, ban and eliminate nuclear weapons, also known as ‘Austrian Pledge’.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative and participate in a core group of countries that can work for an international ban on nuclear weapons.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e2207	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. It's from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present what is currently being negotiated in the TISA agreements, exactly as stated in the contract text, with what is currently contained in clauses, information on clauses and other legislation leading the sectoral negotiations.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e2237	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e2311	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e2321	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e2574	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e2584	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e3001	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e3011	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-12.ana.ud1353e3023	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
