ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e96	The representatives Torstein Tvedt Solberg and Kristian Norheim, who have been on leave, have once again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the Province of Buskerud: Niclas Tokerud For Oslo: Ingunn Gjerstad For Telemark County: Hanne Thürmer Three permit applications are available: from the Group of the Left on the Welfare Permit of the Representative André N. Skkelstad from 3 March to 5 March from the Group of the Progressive Alliance of the Party of European Socialists on the sick leave of the representative Tor André Johnsen from 3 March onwards and until further notice from the Group of the Progressive Alliance on the leave of the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde from 4 and 5 March to attend the delegation of the United Kingdom to the Conference on the monitoring of the EU's foreign, security and defence policy in Riga On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Hedmark County: Hege Jensen For Oslo: Peter N. Myhre For the North-Trundellag County: Iren Opdahl
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e162	Hege Jensen and Iren Opdahl are present and will take their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e168	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sverre Myrli and Hans Andreas Limi. – Other proposals are not available, and Sverre Myrli and Hans Andreas Limi are unanimously elected as chairpersons of today’s meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e189	We who were born in Stavanger have at all times received the nickname sitiser. It's changed in the last decades. Young people in Stavanger now get the nickname oil kids. If it's because we bathe in oil, drown in oil or have oil constantly on the food, one can choose for yourself, but the reference is clear: the emerging generations in Stavanger are, whether they like or not, colored by the oil wealth of the city. I must admit, even I'm an oil kid. This oil kid was 30 years old yesterday. And when you put the 20s behind you and start to go in the years, such an anniversary, when they show up, becomes a time for reflection. In 1985, the year I was born, the year was the first estimates said the Ekofisk field would go empty – only 15 years after production started. It was assumed that the extraction rate would be 16-19 pst. Even the expectations of the optimists have been put to shame: today the perspective of the Ecofisk field is 50 p.p. extraction rates, and production is expected until 2050. However, although the perspective of the life span of the oil age was mildly short, a long-term perspective on the management of the income from the «oil». The production of oil and gas was not a traditional production but a reallocation of wealth, from petroleum wealth to financial assets. This was first formulated by the Temporal Committee, which was entrusted with the task of examining ‘all aspects of particular importance for the assessment of the future development of the petroleum industry’. And it was the Temporal Committee that first proposed to set up a fund where the government could save the oil revenues. The road from there we know well. In 1990, Stortinget passed the law on the fund. In 1996, the Fund receives the first transfer from the Ministry of Finance. It's worth 43 billion. kr. In 2013, the fund passed 5,000 billion. kr. And now -- I checked NBIM's websites yesterday -- is funded at 6 750 billion. kr. It has gone from just investing in debt securities to opening up equity investments, and later investment in property. Ethical guidelines for the Fund have been adopted and one has become clearer as owner. Step by step has gradually adjusted and improved the management of the fund. The state pension fund abroad is owned by the Norwegian people. It should last for generations, and therefore we have not been indifferent to how the fund invests. Unlike other oil nations with similar funds, Norway is a democracy and therefore has wide and open debates that have followed the development of the fund. In the autumn's budgetary settlement between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government Parties pave the way for a new step for the Fund. The comments say that one should come «back to the question of opening up State pension funds abroad to make unlisted investments» etc., with clear references to poor countries and investments in the renewable project. The majority are asking in their comments that the issue is addressed in the Communication on the management of the State pension fund in the spring of 2015. That message is right around the corner, so I hope the finance minister can already say something today about what process the government is adding up to. But the background for this interpellation is not primarily to discuss unlisted investments. The Stortinget will come back to that in time. I am thinking more about the broad and open debate on the development of the Fund: the issue of the Storting's desire for openness around the Fund, and the current organisation of control and supervision of the Fund's activities is now ripe for a comprehensive review – a theme that has been further updated by that majority remark. As we further develop the management of the Fund, supervision, control and transparency around the Fund must also be developed. Only in this way will we ensure that the broad and open debates can continue, and only in this way will we ensure that the Norwegian people continue to have ownership of the fund. Like everything else around the State pension fund abroad, Norway’s Bank and NBIM’s management, control and supervision system have been subject to gradual adjustment and improvement in parallel to the development of the Fund. But from time to time there will also be a need for a more comprehensive review of these systems. The working party now believes that it is time for a new comprehensive review. The goal today is not to create the new structure, but to start a process. More than that comment is up-to-date. Firstly, there is an ever-growing fund with more extensive management: the number of companies, industries and markets in which one is invested, increasing, one has recently expanded the environmental mandates, which are complex, one has incorporated the Ethics Council into Norway's Bank's structure, and one has greater ambitions to participate actively as an owner. It is a desirable development, but it also places pressure on the supervisory and supervisory functions. Secondly, the experience of opening up property investments shows that there are major challenges to expanding the investment universe. NBIM has taken the time and not hastened. An en route user has gained experience and then corrected the course, but even with such an approach, there are challenges. We know the debate and questions about the creation of subsidiaries, taxation and conditions around tax havens. Nor does it conceal the fact that property is resource-intensive administratively and presents the fund with a new type of challenges when it comes to ensuring transparency around the investments. Finally, the assessment of opening up unlisted investments. The Formula 1 case, or rather the investment in Delta Topco, shows the complexity of this type of investment and the challenges that one will face if another expands the investment universe of the fund. Again, punctuations such as tax havens and transparency can be mentioned. I do not criticize the investments that have been made, and the choices that have been made. The size has been concentrated behind the development of the fund. But if we are to secure the broad and open debate, and if we are to ensure that the Norwegian people feel ownership of the fund, it is important to realise that the increasing complexity of the fund has been given us to face new challenges. I think the next step will be to get an overall assessment of whether the control and supervision functions are also optimally structured, and how one can simultaneously strengthen the work of transparency around the administration. As I said earlier, the goal of this interpellation is not to draw up the new structure, but to initiate a process. I look forward to the Minister of Finance's reply and the subsequent debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e236	The government said in the Sundvolden platform that the framework created around the management of State pension funds abroad is firm. This means that the Ministry of Finance has the overall responsibility for the pension fund, that the operational management is carried out by the Bank of Norway within a mandate laid down by the Ministry of Finance, established in the Stortinget, and that a breakdown-appointed representation oversees the operations of the bank, including the management of the fund. In the Communication on State pension funds, which was submitted in spring 2010, Meld. St. 10 for 2009–2010, alternative management models were discussed. It was stressed that these should facilitate professional and cost-effective management, identify clear lines of responsibility and foreseeable framework conditions, facilitate good communication between the contracting entity and the administrator and between the administrator and the public, contribute to the convergence of interests between the owner and the administrator, be robust towards future challenges, including: ever-increasing funds, major holdings in individual companies and a possible trend towards illiquid assets with major governance challenges, take into account the role of the Fund as an instrument of financial policy and take into account matters that have been important in the international debate on state investment funds, and reflect what is considered to be best practice internationally. It is difficult to create an administrative model that takes good care of all these considerations. The assessment at the time, however, was that today's model has worked well. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance wrote that one would make further adjustments, if necessary, to further develop the organisation of the Bank of Norway, in line with best international practice. At the same time, there is a continuous development in the important task of managing the SPU. The fund is growing, property management is under construction, and we have said that it should be investigated whether it should be opened up for investment in unlisted infrastructure. We must be open to see that the need to delegate more to the Bank of Norway will increase as management is further developed. Unlisted investments impose new administrative requirements. These include: less transparency about unlisted investments than quoted investments. The return is also more difficult to measure than in quoted shares and debt securities. It underlines the need for a good management model and a good oversight and control system. The Government considers that the governance and control structure of the Bank of Norway needs to be developed in line with the tasks assigned to the Bank. The representative of the Workers' Party asks if I would like to go through the supervisory and supervisory functions to assess whether these meet the need for control and supervision of the Fund's activities. It is important to stress that the Bank of Norway has a separate responsibility to further develop and adapt its internal organisation to the tasks entrusted to it. This is what I am following in the ongoing follow-up to the work of Norges Bank, and which I will keep Stortinget informed about. I will also return to the need for any further action to strengthen the governing bodies of the Bank of Norway. In this respect, I noticed that the representative Tvedt Solberg points to today's arrangements for representation. Tvidt Solberg also asks if I will review the transparency around the management of the fund set up against the ambitions of openness set by the Stortinget. Transparency is a fundamental prerequisite for maintaining the confidence of the population in the management of the fund. The transparency requirement is explicitly reflected in the administrative mandate, which states that the management should be as transparent as possible within the framework set by the sound implementation of the management mandate. Furthermore, new demands have been made over time for what Norway’s Bank should report. One example is that the requirements for reporting on the work of responsible management have recently been extended. The reporting shall include how the principles for the work of responsible management activities are integrated into the management, including the use of instruments and the impact of ownership work. The Bank is also informed that it is expected to report appropriately on the dialogue with individual companies. Furthermore, it is clarified that the Bank shall provide a separate account of investments in emerging markets and renewable energy. In addition to Norway’s Bank’s reporting on SPU, the representation reports annually to the Stortingen on its work. I have also noticed that since 2014, the representative has established a practice of publishing the minutes of their meetings. In my view, the possibility for the public to assess different aspects of the management of the fund is well maintained through publicly available information, but, as the representative Tvedt Solberg himself also said in his contribution, the sooner the announcement of the State pension fund abroad comes to the Stortinget, where the government is given the opportunity to present different questions, different presentations, to the Stortinget, and thereby discuss both existing and new challenges with the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e255	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for the answer. I have to admit that I was a little excited about the line the Minister of Finance was going to put on. She chose a bit of all the options, both the matching one, the pending one and the slightly repulsive one, just as a finance minister tends to be, perhaps. I am glad that the Minister of Finance also sees that the issue is up-to-date. I think we all agree in this Chamber that the goal is to have the best practice internationally. Yes, it's demanding. Yeah, you have to work on this thing all the time. However, the objective should be precisely best practice internationally – to ensure the broad and open debate in Norway, not least that the Norwegian people feel ownership – must work on the issue continuously. The Minister of Finance said that unlisted investments are going to be demanding. It's going to be an exciting part of the staging message coming later in the spring. That's why I think it was important to get that debate a little bit ahead of me. I noticed that the finance minister had noticed what I said in the post that you have to look carefully at this. As I said in my main post, I think the next step must be that we get an overall assessment of whether the control and supervision functions are optimally structured. I am excited about what comes in the message, and will follow it carefully. It is up to the Storting to start such a process, and I realized that the Minister of Finance considers this interpellation as the beginning of such a process. I'm further excited about the comments of some of the other parties. I know that the finance minister's cooperation parties are in the Nydalen and therefore not present here today, unfortunately, but this is a subject which other parties in the Stortinget have also shown interest in earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e272	Let me just stress that I'm glad that the interpellant raises this question for discussion. It is such that the management of the fund, the framework around the bank, has been built stone by stone, step by step through broad consensus in the Storting every single year, and that is why the message that comes soon to the Stortinget is important. It is an important tool for good dialogue between government and enlargement on the further development of the management of the Fund. I believe that some of the things that have done good to the administration are always present in Stortinget's eagerness to form a broad consensus on the further development of the fund. It is important to constantly discuss several of the issues raised by the interpellant. Of course, it's all about having focus on the organisation of the bank, so that we always have what we think is the best way to solve the problem. In that case, the supervisory functions are also significant. It is also important at regular intervals to check whether we have organised as properly as possible and, of course, the criteria for management – important issues. What has been important at the same time is the very broad consensus that we have never deviated from in the Storting, which is about what the fund should be, and what it should not be. It provides a significant degree of predictability for the fund in its operations and in its meeting with large, important markets internationally. The ability to maintain some very basic principles in our further development of this gives the fund credibility, and together with the considerable degree of transparency that lies around the fund linked to the ethical guidelines, it also provides a very good framework, and not least a good framework when we constantly build rocks on stones for further management.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e283	It is reassuring when even oil kids from Stavanger start to take an interest in our common future, and congratulations on the day yesterday! It is good that young people too worry about the future, so that this does not become a ‘privileged’ for us who are considerably older, who always worry about something, not least the future of young people. That's why this is a good interpellation, because this is one of the pillars of our future welfare society. It's just looking at the annual budgets and what's being added to the budgets of money and resources from the oil fund. Therefore, there is little disagreement on what has been the systemic nature of this, namely that the transparency, supervision and control of the Fund are gradually developing, along with the developments that are taking place and that the interpellant uses as its input, namely the evolution of changes in the portfolio of investments in the areas into unlisted portfolios and what it might be. But there is also a slow process that is gradually being announced in the messages, and that the Storting is gradually getting together about. It's true, as the interpellant also says, that he doesn't criticize what has been, it would have been strange, since his party has been in government for a very long time and has stood for this, but he emphasizes that you're standing together. I think a major point from the Right side just has to be that this has to be a slow process that has to be proportionate to how management changes. That's why I'm a little stunned by what the interpellant really means when he talks about a more comprehensive review. Because we have an overall review every year when this is presented, and the question is, is it supposed to be a complete change? Because that's something completely different. I feel that the reviews we have are good. They are holistic, but they change very little, and the control and supervision regime has to change the same way. Our supervisory body is, as the Minister of Finance rightly points out, the Norwegian Bank's representation. There we also receive the annual reports – the Minister of Finance points out that the protocols are open. But there is no doubt that, as the fund grows, as it spreads into several investment areas, administrative competence is not only required, but it will require competence throughout the control and supervision system. It's a task for the Storting to make sure you have the necessary skills. I'm not saying that it doesn't exist, I'm just saying that there's an obligation to make sure it exists, to carry out the necessary supervision. It's not usually the big revolutionary changes from the Right. I believe that, not least in this area, we should move slowly from administrative areas to control and supervision. It's not just for our own sake, it's also because this fund is considered from the outside. It is a major player in the international financial markets. That's why it has to be very predictable what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e298	I would like to congratulate the interpellant on the day and thank him for travelling a very important matter. The representative of the Fleet said that there were not ‘the major revolutionary changes’. The right would be addressed in the management of the State pension fund abroad. I guess nobody expected that either. But the Minister of Finance Party has a better history than the Right in this area and was in time involved in introducing the ethical guidelines for the State pension fund abroad, and I hope that it will still be possible to motivate the Minister of Finance to be even more active. Financial transparency is not just a matter of SPU, which manages enormous values – 6 750 billion. NOK, said Tvedt Solberg was now the last update – on behalf of the Norwegian community to behave well. It is also a question of how to deal internationally with one of the world's greatest challenges: illegal capital flow, tax evasion and corruption. Very much of the world's unfair inequality is entirely dependent on illegitimate and illegal flows of capital in order to be maintained. In Russia, for example: There are hundreds of people who are responsible for about 35 pst. of the ownership of the entire economy of the country. It would not have been possible without using illegitimate and hidden mechanisms to move money that would have been taxed and that would have been stated, and that there would have been openness around. All the time that the illegal flow of capital out of developing countries far exceeds the value of total aid – it is many times larger – and also exceeds the value of foreign investment is not just a theoretical issue of transparency and good ideals and ethics, it is a question of whether our investment should at all contribute to a positive development. As the fund grows, and areas in which the fund is to invest, expand, it is clearly becoming increasingly challenging also to monitor the Fund's operations. The time is overdue for more political will in this field, and I fully agree with the inter-pellant that we need a more holistic approach to this and a more thorough review. All the time Norway through NBIM is one of the world's largest owners, with a significant holding in very, very many international companies, the practice we as owners are pursuing is of very concrete importance to many countries' efforts to combat corruption and tax evasion. The idea that SPU is a neutral, unpolitical piggy piggy is sometimes conveyed here in the staging room is wrong. For all other countries and actors in the world, the Oil Fund is to the greatest extent considered to be political, precisely because it is a large fund, with considerable power, owned by Norway. One thing is that many companies we own through NBIM, or have a holding in, in several countries are suspected of what I would call a regular bandit business, of a kind that is not necessarily covered by the ethical guidelines, but which is nevertheless very serious. Norway owns, for example: a significant proportion of the company Lonmin, which has raised high awareness in winter in South Africa, when it was discovered that billions of dollars have been invoicing out of the country and into the tax haven of Bermuda. This way of moving profits to avoid tax is not an exception that sometimes happens; it's on the contrary an important part of how very many large multinational companies today operate, and where SPU, after all, in very many cases, is inside the owner's side. It is very difficult to keep track of this practice, because many companies organise themselves in ways that are so complex that only a few people in the company's own administration can fully explain how the cash flows really are. So one thing is that the fund's size in itself and the new markets and areas in which the fund is to invest is an autonomously sound basis for a review of the type of inter-pellant. But also because the illegal flow of capital is already one of the greatest challenges of our time, there has to be work. We don't just have to review today's oversight functions and transparency, there's more we can do already today, and the Storting shouldn't have problems adopting. Firstly, a minimum must be that the Bank of Norway does not itself contribute to tax havens and secrecy. The fact that SPU’s property investments are largely made from Luxembourg and Delaware, two of the world’s most important tax havens, is totally unacceptable and reduces both NBIM and Norway’s ability to influence other countries and actors positively. This must end, and the Storting can decide already in ours. Secondly, tax impeccability can be an independent basis for extraction – it has to be assessed in the spring – and thirdly, Norway can help the world's companies achieve the necessary transparency towards poor countries by introducing the completely necessary extension of the country-by-country reporting that the red-green government has put in place. It must also be possible to establish a majority in our Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e317	Let me first take the opportunity to commend Norway's Bank and NBIM for the work done in managing the SPU so far. The interpellant raises many questions about today’s organisation — control, transparency of the Fund’s activities and its maturity for review. A report by the Bank of Norway entitled ‘Responsible Management 2014 — Statens pensionfonds abroad’, a report of a total of 76 pages, prepared entirely on its own initiative and addressing most of the issues raised by the inter-pellant, shows that the central bank has a high focus on just transparency. The Minister of Finance was aware that since 2014, the Bureau has chosen to publish the minutes of its meetings, which also contributes to – in my view – high transparency on the part of the Bank of Norway. We can read in the report about the central bank’s focus on the very value of the further development of knowledge in a number of areas – including those that have travelled here today. The Central Bank has put this on the agenda, and it is clear from the report that this is something you really want to put in the driver's seat. Furthermore, we have heard today that the Minister of Finance is taking the questions of the inter-pellant very seriously and is taking part in the development, and that the Stortinge should at all times be informed of their work. I would like to point out, as the Minister of Finance has also done here today, that it is the Bank of Norway that is responsible for further developing and adapting its internal organisation, which I have full confidence that the Bank of Norway will do. I can only refer again to the report prepared by the Norwegian Bank, and recommend that you read it carefully – and see that the bank has a great deal of focus on the questions raised in the interpellation here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e336	First of all, thank you to the interpellant for raising this debate. Thanks also to the Minister of Finance for a thorough answer. For the Left, we have been concerned with both ethical and environmental criteria regarding the placement of the State pension fund abroad, and it is important to have an ongoing debate in the UK about it. The contributions that have been here also show the long-termity that must be in this administration. When you look back at the annual reports, you also see that the administration has changed. Then we have to be patient with possible future changes. This is long-term management, and it's hard to navigate. There are two aspects I would like to point out in particular when it comes to transparency and control. One is the growth of the fund, which is big. At some point there will be a capacity challenge because management of such large sums requires a great deal of expertise and staff. We have a lot of ICT that can help us, but at some point it's going to be a challenge. The second thing I want to address is conflict-related ownership. Last week I had an interpellation about the capacity of the Norwegian water industry outside the borders of Norway. State pension funds abroad have invested more and more in water-related shares in recent years. As the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen had in mind, there is an increased use of the fund as a policy instrument in development, one might say. I think it's an interesting development and an opportunity for Norway to contribute to the rational use of capital. But it also opens up potential conflicts. So far, water-related shares have belonged to the Western world, but increasingly, such stock companies are also in African, Asian and South American countries, where there are more nearby conflict areas. It confronts us and every actor and owner in such regions with new challenges. Environmental criteria have also been mentioned in the debate so far. It is a challenge that puts us to the test to develop environmental indicators. I think Norway's Bank and SPU have done a good job so far when I look back at the last three to four years' development in terms of water-related shares and sustainable development. They have actually done a good job there, and I wish the Storting had sometimes had the same pace in developing environmental criteria. I think we're going to scale up a little bit to the job that's done there. In the case of unlisted shares, it's also, I think, worth looking at a little bit of the Norwegian infrastructure management and not just the scale of investing in the rest of the world. That's more how we're going to organise this at home that we should see a little bit in context. If we are to use capital to invest in unlisted shares and infrastructure abroad, we should also include in the same debate how we, for example. can help Norwegian long-term capital invest in Norwegian infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e351	As others, I would like to thank the interpellant for a very good initiative. As the interpellant himself points out, this fund is now so large that it is far beyond what anyone had imagined that we as a nation would have to travel with when the State pension fund was established abroad, and when the governance mechanisms for that fund were established. That is why it is very important that we now get up and get a debate on the fundamental issues of this fund. And there is no question of a criticism of those who have managed the fund and the way the fund has been managed so far – it has happened on the premises that Stortinget has given. However, it is necessary to take into account the basic fact that we now have an international instrument available which, whether we like it or not, has a political effect, has a climate policy effect and has a political impact in a number of other areas. There is no question whether or not we should use State pension funds abroad as a political instrument. The question is: what political effect do we want that fund to have? It also has a political effect to decide that the fund will not be actively used in the exercise of Norwegian policies and objectives. So, from the Green Party, we welcome a debate which ultimately involves what we are going to use this fund for, and which asks the question first of all, how are we going to use the fund? The key question in the interpellation is: is it true that a professional environment that has its sole origin in monetary policy should be the only thing that governs and controls how we invest this huge fund? We know that the way we invest 6 750 billion. kr on, has a huge climate effect. The question is, how do we want that climate effect to be? We know that we already have a number of political leaders in how this fund is invested – we don't want to invest in child labour, we don't want to invest in tobacco, we don't want to invest in landmines. Kynically, it could probably be quite profitable to do all of this, but we've made political and moral decisions that we shouldn't do this. It's a thought that needs to be passed on. When Yngve Slyngstad, the head of the oil fund, was asked if the oil fund should invest in coal, he took a little art break, and then he said, "That's what politicians have to decide." So we have to decide. What we are now facing is an assessment of whether the oil fund should be invested solely on the basis of a traditional economic investment horizon and, on the other hand, whether or not the Stortinge should more closely address the relationship between what we spend 6 750 – and more and more – billions. kr to, and the world we want that money to be invested in in 10 years, 30 years and 50 years. It's a question of political choices, and it's a question of who's in charge. We in the Energy and Environment Committee have just been to Tanzania and South Africa. There are two countries that have very good examples of road choices that are now available in the energy and infrastructure sectors. Both countries have great opportunities to choose a renewable route, both countries are at high risk of continuing a fossil road and options are very much based on whether investment capital is available to choose the renewable route. This is one of many examples where the State pension fund abroad can choose a significantly greater investment profile that is also linked to the long-term policy objectives that Norway sets out to have internationally, and where we have an instrument that we now explicitly say we will not use. It's the kind of issues that I'm glad that the interpellant at least adds up that we can eventually get a discussion about, starting with more discussion about who is going to run the control, and how we're going to do it. We look forward to the continuation of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e368	First of all, I would like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate. I think the debate has shown that this is a topic on which there is a cross-political interest in moving forward. All the contributions have been accompanied and supported by the major objective, which both I and the Minister of Finance had in mind, of best international practice. It requires something from Stortinget. It requires something from the government, and it requires something from the Bank of Norway, that it constantly improves and participates in the ongoing debate. The representative Serigstad Valen was concerned about something important, this with illegal capital flows. The left and the representative, Mr Kjeseth, were concerned about this with the growth of the fund, not least the conflict-related ownership, and the representative, Mr Hansson, was concerned about this with road choices and climate aspects. I agree with what was said in all these speeches. They are all important additional elements of this debate. To clarify for the representative Fleet, who asked what I meant by an overall review, and whether it meant a complete change. I'd like to elaborate on that. What I imagine is that we need to have a review over and over again. We've done that several times before, for example. in the case of ethics, that one has had investigations which have been part of the basis which has been subsequently notified. What I think is the essence of it all, is that we now have to stop a little bit, look at this whole thing, but of course we'll look at what's in the message, and come back to it then and formulate something in that context. I would once again like to thank the Minister of Finance for the answer, and I hope that the Ministry of Finance sees this debate as a starting point for a process that seems to be very much in agreement. As I said, I noticed earlier that the finance minister noticed that someone was going to look at this in the message, so we're excited about what's coming there. In any case, I want to take with me the various elements that have emerged in the debate, for the consideration of the big message, which will only be a few months from now. Having listened to the various speeches, I am strengthened in the belief that we can find a common formulation to be reassembled, so that we can see concrete results of this debate as early as later this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e380	I look forward to submitting the message about SPU. It'll be here in about a month. It will provide the Storting with ample opportunity to discuss many important issues, including those raised in the last year’s communication. Then I can only mention to the representative Kjenseth that the issue of Norwegian infrastructure management and non-listed was raised in the last year's message. Then the government agreed that we should start an investigation of that question for SPN's part. That work is well under way. A few reflections on some of the issues raised by the representative Serigstad Valen: it is true that although some of the issues are not necessarily linked to the management of the fund, the representative Serigstad Valen raises important questions. A wide range of work is now being done by the Norwegian authorities as well as by the international arena to combat corruption, tax evasion, money laundering and several other problematic issues. This is done by the fact that the government has recently reduced a whitewashing sample, which is important. It is done through the so-called BEPS work, Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, which is ongoing with full force internationally. Of course, it is also about recently concluded agreements on international tax information exchange. Much of this work will be important in order to gradually combat tax evasion and corruption, which are global problems, and which are primarily done through effective instruments by the authorities. But then there is no doubt that the fund, in particular through the exercise of ownership, also does an important piece of work related to this and other issues raised by the Storting through the policies on which the fund is to be managed. There was a lot of discussion during the hearing that the Financial Committee had on the communication last year, in which particular issues of ownership were devoted a lot of time. It's important, because it's one of the most important tools we have, and the fund has, to contribute to different companies around the world. All in all, I perceive that this interpellation debate underlines the broad consensus that lies around the main features of the management of the fund, but that we continue, all the time, what has been the basis – building stones on stones and further development. I would like to thank the interpellant once again for putting an important question on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e391	That is when the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e405	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose to give rise to six lines of reply following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e414	Through several decisions over many years, the size has determined that more competition is desirable in the dairy sector. The Stoltenberg government concluded the so-called milk agreement in 2007. It provided the independent operators with some support funded from the agricultural sector to promote competition so that independent operators Synnuve Find and Q-meieria could compete in the dairy products market. Following the evaluation of this scheme in 2012, the Stoltenberg Government announced that the measure had to be implemented and continued. The Labour Party is now making a proposal in the Storting, where they realise the need to strengthen competition in the dairy sector. It is good that the Labour Party sees the need, but is it really to strengthen the competition they propose in this proposal? The answer is no. In fact, since 2006 and until now, Tine has increased its market dominance. Today they represent 98,5 pst. of the investments in the dairy sector. There are good results from the Norwegian School of Commerce from professors who conclude with lack of competition in the dairy market and that operators do not have access to milk as a commodity on equal terms. That means that Tine's competitors get significantly higher costs. As I understand the Workers' Party's proposal, they don't want any further competition, so that more players can establish themselves in the competition to produce dairy products, as Q-meieria and Synnove Find do. The working party will maintain a strong agricultural cooperation. They only want the existing actors to have equal access to financial support through the anti-price mechanism. Securing active, real and good competition in the processing industry for Norwegian producers based on the use of Norwegian raw materials, together with strong agricultural cooperation, is a demanding task. This is precisely why the measures introduced by the Stoltenberg Government from 2007 are not sufficient. Some of the challenges in the dairy industry are that there is no effective competition at all. It is not possible for new actors to drop. The State with the Labour Party at its head bought in such a way a competitive situation when it introduced this aid scheme so that the Q-meieria and Synnove Find remained on the market. I am a little surprised that the Labour Party does not agree with a remark that the government should assess whether the Directorate of Agriculture's task of monitoring equal commodity prices for operators has been achieved. I think it is quite strange when they propose to improve competition in the dairy market, that they do not participate and want to assess whether the pricing is correct. For the Right, it is important that this is evaluated. Then I have the impression that the Labour Party has changed a little bit of meaning in the process after the Document 8 proposal. The Labour Party has not chosen to support a comment that competition in the dairy sector is persistently weak, despite Tine’s market dominance, and that prices have been found to be incorrect. But now they have shifted their focus and focus towards the rest of the world, and believe that the Norwegian milk and dairy industry’s competitiveness towards the rest of the world needs to be strengthened. Right went to the choice of strengthening Norwegian competitiveness and not weakening it, as the Labour Party proposal actually does. To strengthen foreign competitiveness, there are two possibilities: one is to reduce domestic costs. The second is to build large customs barriers and customs barriers to the rest of the world, so that foreigners do not enter Norway. This is impossible for the Labour Party. At least it's not the fronts of the EEA and of the EFTA meetings that we're at, because they want more free trade and more trade with Europe. Furthermore, reducing costs is not easy with the Workers' Party's proposal, as they want to stimulate the competitive instruments with increased use of subsidies. This will mean that the prices of dairy products will have to rise because they are financed by taxes on some goods and by subsidies on other elements of the agricultural settlement. In other words, more use of subsidies gives higher costs overall and not lower. No matter how the Labour Party will twist and reverse this today, this issue is such that it is not possible to carry out so much better competition in the dairy sector with the paper 8 proposed by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e437	I notice that the case rapporteur chooses to have a Polish approach to this matter. I'm not going to spend my speaking time twisting and twisting our position – I'm going to explain it and our proposal. As I think most people in this room know, it's for the dairy sector that for a good many other actors in the food industry – especially those based on cooperatives – can have more thoughts in their heads at once. There is no doubt – let me say right away – that the Workers' Party is a clear supporter of many of the cooperative institutions we have in Norwegian food production. In this way, we believe that the cooperation linked to the dairy industry has greatly benefited Norwegian consumers, but also benefited Norwegian district and agricultural policy. Nevertheless, there is a proposal where we open up and just have a review to see if the desired competition, which the Workers' Party also contributed for some years back, works well enough. We believe that this is the main reason why consumers benefit from a certain degree of competition in this field as well, but also because the legitimacy of cooperatives is best served by the fact that they actually have a certain level of competition. I believe that much of what has happened in the dairy sector in recent years, in this way, has contributed to it. It has been essential for us to ask for such a review without concluding whether the competitive conditions are such or not, which I believe the case-rapporteur is inviting. It has been essential for such a review to be aimed precisely at ensuring that consumers have access to dairy products throughout the country and at the same price. It has been essential to ensure a robust and long-term supply of raw materials across the country through strong agricultural cooperation. It has also been important for us to ensure effective competition in the processing industry for Norwegian producers based on Norwegian raw materials. For me, it's a little strange that the government parties on this occasion choose a more polemic angle on the debate when you see that, at such a review, you might rarely get a majority for actions that would be important to just ensure the reasons that I've been through. And it is also true, as the rapporteur pointed out, that much of what has happened in perhaps the last two years, in particular, in terms of international competition, also speaks for such a review. As regards competition for dairy products in the Norwegian market, developments have moved towards an increasingly large share of imported products. These developments were recently confirmed in a report from the Directorate of Agriculture — developments in the last ten years have changed Norway’s position from being a net exporter to becoming a net importer of dairy products. We have to take that over. And we need to use the political instruments we have available, so that Norwegian milk has sufficient competitiveness on the domestic market. Through trade policy, we have opened up tariff-free import quotas and have opened up import competitions for some processed dairy products and different foods from the EU. It is then important that we ensure Norwegian milk competitiveness in precisely these areas. In the dairy sector, there is also a challenge that there is also growth in imports of products beyond the quotas and of processed products beyond what we have opened up to. This may, in the long term, put pressure on measures intended to ensure the disposal of milk by farmers. We need to ensure that Norwegian milk has sufficient preference at home. The competition between Norwegian dairies is part of the overall picture. So that's not the whole picture. There are instruments in use to promote competition between the Norwegian operators, which I was in place. Of course, the strengthening of these instruments needs – and we are also aware of this – to be balanced against the effect on the competitiveness of Norwegian milk as a whole. It is the overall competitiveness of Norwegian milk that is crucial in a future perspective. It is also behind our desire for such a review and gives the Storting the opportunity to discuss possible measures on a broader basis than we actually do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e456	The framework conditions in the dairy sector are a topic that is under constant debate in industry and in the political environment. In these World Cup times, we've heard what our gold candidates drink for lunch: a glass of milk. It is said that milk products strengthen our skeleton – perhaps that's why our gold candidates drink milk – but in terms of agricultural policy, we can also say that milk production is the skeleton. Milk production is essential for maintaining agriculture throughout the country. In many parts of the country, milk production contributes to housing and living communities, including: The reception obligation of TINE is one of the essential elements for the smooth operation of milk production throughout the country. Equal opportunities for the marketing of the milk produced are an important element in ensuring agriculture also in areas not around the major cities. In this way, parts of the existing framework conditions become essential to ensure that we achieve one of the most important agricultural policy objectives: the exploitation of agricultural land throughout the country. At the same time, there are challenges in the dairy sector. There are particular competition challenges. One of the actors in the industry has a dominant role to say in all areas. We in the Christian People's Party are in favour of increased competition in the dairy sector, but at the same time it is essential that the important roles TINE also perform today, in particular in relation to reception and universal service, are safeguarded by increased competition within the Norwegian dairy sector. But there is a need to simplify the framework conditions for the dairy sector. Several schemes are very complex. It makes it difficult to get a full overview of both the arrangements and the different elements of the schemes. It is therefore exciting that there will now be an overall review and evaluation of the market organisation for milk. There shall also be a review and assessment of the price balancing system, in order to ensure increased competition. One important element in this should be to simplify the system, and we know that simplification is one of the good words of today's government. But it is also important that, when we are now discussing competition in the dairy sector, we do not forget the major competition challenge for the dairy sector, namely the competition we have with the rest of the world. Imports from foreign dairy products are increasing and demand for Norwegian dairy products is lower than the potential. An important element to ensure a strong dairy sector in Norway is to ensure that imports do not compete with Norwegian products. If we are to achieve the objective of increasing self-sufficiency as the population grows, as this enlargement has been said, it is also vital that an agricultural policy that respects Norway's interests in the face of the EU, which still wants to have more exports to our country. This is a commercial policy, it is a competition within the Norwegian dairy sector and it is a competition between the Norwegian dairy sector and the rest of the world. They're important, all three of these elements, and we in the Christian People's Party look forward to the reviews to be in order to have that discussion and find the right balance point for the different elements of competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e475	I have to say that is a rather wonderful proposal we are considering today. I am quite surprised that the Labour Party is making this proposal now. The proposal is based on a description of the reality of competition in the dairy sector that I believe is not real. The fact is that today there is a high level of competition in the dairy market, and it is increasing. A visit to a cold room in a store should be enough to get one to put away this proposal. I further record that the Workers' Party's proposal is embraced by the Council of State in her reply to the Committee. However, it is gratifying that the Workers' Party has adjusted the course of the proposal until the vote is taken. There has been a concern about domestic competition to become a question of the relationship with imported dairy products. The centre party believes that competition in the dairy market today is real, and we note that it is gradually increasing. We therefore do not now see the need for further competition measures in the Norwegian dairy sector, but we definitely see the need to look at how to strengthen the Norwegian dairy sector in competition with imported dairy products. Agricultural cooperation is one of the pillars of the Norwegian agricultural model. Through the cooperative, the country’s farmers are guaranteed the opportunity to own and influence the further processing stage. It is also such that there is a significant obligation aspect associated with the operation of the cooperative. It's a universal obligation, it's a reception obligation, yes, it's a burden that the community and the cooperative have taken on, as I think they're dealing in a good way. There's every reason to fear the government's milk policy. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State notes that competition in the dairy market is ‘highly restricted by the milk quota system, which limits both the production potential and the possibility of transferring milk production between Member States’. That's what worries me. Any possibility of moving allowances freely between states would be a major attack on the channelling policy and the desire to increase food production on Norwegian resources. I find it difficult to see what the government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, wanted when they were in the agricultural settlement in favour of such an investigation. The case rapporteur was in writing a description of the customs walls around Norway. I have to say that you have to put away this scare image that you make of Norway as a country with high customs walls around. We import a very large proportion of what we eat, from abroad, a large part of it is from the EU. We have, unlike most other countries, few or no customs walls on other goods imports. That's the true picture. We must also bear in mind that the reason we have the customs barriers is that the food industry accounts for a significant proportion of the Norwegian mainland industry, and a large proportion of investment in the mainland industry comes into the food industry. The centre party considers that there should be fair competition in the dairy sector. It is to a large extent today. However, we await the investigation into the system for balancing agricultural commodity markets. However, we will only address measures that strengthen Norwegian food production and are in line with the Norwegian agricultural model. The reasons why the Centre Party does not support the comment on the need for simplification are past experience with the government’s definition of simplifications. It's a simplification policy where you tear down fences without asking the basic question of why the fences were set up once.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e490	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for the work on the matter and the review that was given here today. I share the opinion of the proposers that it has been a good thing for Norwegian consumers that competition was established in the Norwegian milk market, and that this has given a larger range of products to consumers. I perceive the proposers this way in the process that has been. But have we come far enough to ensure favourable competition in this market? Like the rest of the committee, I am of the opinion that competition in the Norwegian milk and dairy sector is still too weak. It is still the case that an actor in most areas has a dominant role. There are good reasons for that and good reasons why it should be so in the future. However, it is consumer interests that will ultimately bear the disadvantages of lack of competition – through lower efficiency in processing and less product-wideness, with a risk of fewer innovations and with an assumed higher price level. This has to be balanced. It points out that competition in the dairy sector depends on many more elements than the competition policy measures mentioned in the proposal. Reference is made to the fact that the government has reduced a sample to evaluate the system for balancing agricultural commodity markets. The aim of the review is to facilitate increased competition and better use of resources in the value chain as a whole. The Committee shall submit its proposals by 1 June 2015. The left waits for the result of the work of this sample. We like to think about the problem that this is addressed. But one thing must be clear: the pricing system is a very complicated system that contains many elements. There are therefore good reasons to look at the possibilities for simplification of the scheme. In the left, in the last year's agricultural settlement, we were committed to maintaining the total agricultural transfers at about the level of what had happened, while at the same time changing the regime against climate-friendly, environmentally-friendly and production-neutral support schemes. We got this together with the government parties and the Christian People's Party. This is a line that we're also stuck on in the future. In the Left, of course, like the proposers, we are committed to ensuring competitive framework conditions in the dairy sector. For the left, we will continue to stimulate Norwegian food culture and the production of local food and drink, but at the same time we must recognise that Norwegian dairy activities are subject to increasing competition from imported dairy products. We have to take that seriously. That's why we in the left were pleased that we, among other things. increased the operating grant for dairy production in the last year’s agreement. Now we await the results of the government's sample and look forward to presenting what advice you will provide to facilitate increased competition and better resource use in the value chain as a whole. In conclusion, I would like to address a topic that I think is little highlighted in this debate, and that is the economic development and industrial structure of milk production. Of course, if a milk producer wants to operate small, medium-sized or large-scale production, it must be up to the individual milk producer himself. But the agricultural policy of the future needs to be designed to give each farmer greater scope for action and greater freedom with economic security at the bottom. When other sectors, both public and private, are facing major changes in line with the challenges of the future, the dairy sector must also be part of this transition, a shift that is both a shared responsibility and the responsibility of each economic operator.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e513	The representatives of Storberget, Botten and Kjerkol have submitted a proposal to ensure competitive conditions in the dairy sector. I agree with the proposers and the Committee that increased competition in the dairy sector is important and that competition in the Norwegian milk and dairy sector is still too weak. It is the consumer who gets the disadvantages when competition is not good enough. There have been many challenges to competition in the milk sector. A new market organisation for milk was launched on 1 January 2004 with the aim of contributing to increased competition in the dairy product market and has been amended several times since then. The market system consists of the milk quota system, the price equalisation system and market regulation within the limits afforded by the import protection system. The competition policy measures contained in the milk price equalisation system form only part of the overall conditions of competition in that market. Imports of milk products are increasing and contribute to greater diversity in Norwegian shops. At the same time, increasing imports make clear that Norwegian milk and dairy industry face competitive challenges. The government wants more competition in the food industry and has done several things that contribute to it. The government has already implemented reforms to the milk quota system where we, among other things, have. has more than doubled the single-use quota cap. A working group to look at the production regions for cow's milk shall submit its proposal during this month. The proposals will be followed up in the agricultural settlement of the year. I have set down a sample to evaluate the system for balancing the commodity markets in agriculture, led by Professor Erling Hjelmeng. The sample shall review the current agricultural commodity market regulation system and propose alternative ways of facilitating market balancing. The aim of the review is to facilitate increased competition and better use of resources in the value chain as a whole. The Committee shall submit its proposals in June 2015. I look forward to receiving the proposals that can stimulate increased competition. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee considers that this is the basis for assessing the whole of the market organisation for milk and for a specific assessment of the price balancing system. I look forward to getting back to Stortinget in an appropriate way with this review and my assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e536	It's going to be line change. Before the representative of Storberget is given the floor, the President will ask if he will make proposals – something he did not do when he had the floor earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e541	Thanks for the reminder. I'm addressing the minority proposal. Milk production is a carrier of Norwegian agricultural policy. Much will fall if we get a weakened basis of competition, both within Norway and not least in what is now moving by forces beyond our borders, in the sense that we have moved from being a net exporter to becoming a net importer of dairy products. As I said in my main post, this calls for an extra responsibility for us at the Storting, but also for the government, to see if there are political instruments to quickly address the challenge we are now facing. Will the Council of State come to Stortinget with measures to improve the competitive situation of the dairy industry in Norway, in view of the international challenges we face?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e550	The representative Knut Storberget has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e554	I think the most important thing we can do is make sure that we get more efficiency in this sector. This is one of the reasons why the government is now resetting the course, for example. allowing for a larger milk quota, which will affect the production of Q-Meierien on the Jären. I've visited the Q-Meierien. They have many of the large milk producers, who now have the opportunity to increase their volume, thereby giving the Q-Meierienen the opportunity to receive more milk themselves to produce products from. I also believe that when it comes to imports, it helps to stimulate the Norwegian companies to develop new products. We see that one company imported Greek yoghurt. We also see that then one of the Norwegian companies comes and makes new products to meet that competition. I believe that overall Norwegian consumers have received a much better choice of products in recent years, and that is good. But the important thing is to make sure that we increase efficiency and competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e565	I agree with many of the considerations that come from the Council of State, but it must be a cross of thought that at a time when we choose, for example. increasing quotas, as has now been done, we see an increase in the international competitive situation. We can get into a situation where things are going really wrong by producing too much here in Norway and not getting a provision for it. Increasing the quota is strictly a marginal response to the international challenges we face. I am of the opinion that the industry should, of course, ensure that it is competitive enough by getting on the road with new products, as the Council of State says – I fully agree with that. Part of the competition in the dairy sector has shown us that these abilities are, to a certain extent, for the actors. My question was whether the Council of State sees the need to get on the road quickly with policy instruments in order to overcome some of the international competition we see now, which can in the long run significantly weaken Norwegian dairy activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e574	I believe that the most important thing is to make sure that we are competitive. One of the main problems now is, for example: that the Norwegian milk price is much higher than the international price. When Russia closed its borders for European products, it did something about the whole milk market in Europe. I know that from 1 April this year, the quota system that the European Union has had will lapse. This means that European farmers can then freely produce what they want. It can meet new challenges and make prices fall further. It is therefore incredibly important in what happens next, that we are able to ensure that the distance between Norwegian production and that which goes on outside does not increase further, and that we are able to streamline the whole sector so that we can become more competitive in the long term. I believe that this is the biggest challenge Norway is facing right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e581	Good and fair competition in the dairy sector is important, but that is something I want to challenge the Council of State. If one looks at all the measures, arrangements and obligations of the different dairy operators – Synnove Find, Q-Meieriene and TINE – this is the result of one finding a kind of balance between TINE on the one hand and the Q-Meieriene and Synnove Find on the other. My question is: does the Council of State agree with the current balance sheet, or does it want to use, through the instruments that a person now assesses, additional policy instruments to help the Q-Meierienen and Synnovel Find? Or will one also look at measures that can strengthen the role of dairy co-operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e586	The Meieri cooperative has a violent position in the Norwegian milk market. On the meat side, for example, they have more competition for the cooperative, while on milk it is a very dominant player. Therefore, I believe that it would be positive if we could facilitate a larger element of competition in that market as well. I believe that after that competition came, it has also been positive for TINE, because with more competition, TINE has constantly developed new products, which has continued to be good for Norwegian consumers. Competition provides an important stimulus for a constant effort to continue to work and find new, good solutions. This market regulation group working on market regulation schemes will report on 1 June, and it will be very exciting to see what comes there. One of the challenges identified is that the cooperative is both a regulator and an operator in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e591	I did not get an answer to my question. I agree that competition is important. It appears from the case and from the investigation that competition in the dairy market is increasing. Everyone agrees. My question is whether the Council of State, as she today assesses the dairy market, believes that there is a need for further policy instruments to benefit Synnovel Find and Q-Meierien, at the expense of – since this is a balance – the dairy cooperative, or does one think that there is a good balance point today? I am not asking for details in the policy, but I am asking for an assessment of the status of the measures that one has today – whether it is the right balance to ensure increased competition in the dairy market in the future, while ensuring the possibility of getting delivered and getting paid for the milk, the same where in the country one produces it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e596	I believe I was quite clear – or very clear – when I said I wanted to increase competition. I believe that there is too little competition, that one actor is very dominant, and that it would have been more positive for Norwegian consumers if there had been more players and more competition in that market. Of course, I want it to be noticed in the reviews I'm going to have when we're going to review different arrangements. The group that has worked to look at the market regulation system will also come back with proposals on how to implement that scheme in a different way. But the conclusion is it's too early to draw. I look forward to a broad basis for starting that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e601	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e606	I feel the need to take the word because there are some points here that should be refuted. It's not that the Right is against us having peasant-owned processing companies, we would like to have them, but we want real competition at the further processing stage, so that new operators and the other operators at the further processing stage can access raw materials under the same conditions as existing farms. This is not an obstacle to having equal milk prices throughout the country. It's nice to get this done anyway. It's also so that we're all too much self-sufficiency, it's not like there's a couple of parties in the opposition who have a monopoly on meaning it. We are too self-sufficient, but we want to use competition and competitiveness to increase self-sufficiency. It's competition that's the key to getting this. We do not get it by protecting agriculture and the agricultural sector, we get it by opening up, with competition, by exploiting economies of scale and by exploiting competition in the market. This is actually also in the big message that came under the red-green government, and it's kind of nice to follow the debate here today, because there are claims from the red-green ones that are not entirely consistent with the big message they wrote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e615	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e629	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. The President will also propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Ingunn Foss is the rapporteur on the matter, but it is the representative of Trellevik who will have the floor first.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e638	It is such that Ingunn Foss is the spokesperson for the cause and has an illness today, so I listen to the ear. I would like to take the floor and hope that we are somewhat in agreement. Ingunn Foss would like to thank the Committee for its cooperation on the matter that we are now discussing. She felt that there was a consensus and a good committee working on this matter. I expect the proposers themselves to do their best for their proposals in the course of the debate. This proposal for a representative is about amending the trading laws to reduce the advertising of meat. The proposers believe that the consumption of meat in Norway is too high, and that it has adverse effects, both health and climate. I agree that balanced dietary advice is important. I'm not sure a change in trading laws to reduce the generic meat marketing is the right tool. A significant number of members in the Committee share this view. The Information Office for Eggs and Meat markets meat in Norway. It's a job they do as part of the market regulation allowed in the law on turnover. Market regulation and information activities are financed by commodity producers through a production levy. The budget of the Information Office is approved by the Management Board, where agricultural organisations have several numbers. Mission report No 4-2014 from SIFO, Meat and Advertising, shows that a total of 147 million were used in 2010. kr for the advertising of meat in Norway. The egg and meat information office provided less than 10 pst. of this. It is mainly the daily food chains and the brand suppliers that are the senders of meat flakes. Reducing the information office part will have a marginal effect. Meat is not the same as alcohol and tobacco in terms of damage. We cannot prohibit private operators from marketing meat. In March 2014, a selection was set up to evaluate the system for balancing agricultural commodity markets. The selection is led by Professor Erling Hjelmeng. The selection shall review the current agricultural commodity market regulation system and propose alternative ways of facilitating market balancing. So the laws on sales are already in the process of being published. The Committee shall submit its proposals by 1 June 2015. I am glad that a clear majority in the committee sees it as likely to wait for the report from the selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e662	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers for raising this issue. It may be a little bit of comfort when you don't get through the proposal, but I'm saying it anyway, because as it is also in the committee's comments, you're waiting for the selection position, which is well-appointed to come this summer, to address this issue. We in the Labour Party support it, but that does not mean that we are strangers to the issues raised by the proposers. I think quite certainly that we should always be on guard to see how this type of instrument works, especially in the time we live in now, where we should have and have more focus on sustainability, the environment and health. So many of the issues raised are relevant to the discussion that needs to follow up on the setting that the sample will issue this summer. This discussion will also be attended by the Working Party. Then there is also reason for us to say that we believe that much of the work that the information office has done on meat is good, and that much of the information that comes has positive effects, among other things. to be able to stimulate good Norwegian food production and make it more attractive to choose Norwegian priorities when you are at the store. In addition, according to my concepts, it is an advantage to have good information related to the products that are offered, which we will also discuss in the next case. In this way, we need to find a balance between how this is going to work on. As the Committee has also noted, much of the framework and structure around it, and in particular the economy of it, has also been the subject of previous consideration, including: in Meld. Article 9 for 2011-2012, cf. in the Committee's observations. But I understand that this is a subject which has also been brought further into the agricultural settlement, so that when dealing with the agricultural settlement, whether the parties should listen to this, you have a good opportunity to address the issues actually raised by the proposers. So this is a debate that we don't think ends with this, but we have to come back to when we have the necessary selection work on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e671	The starting point for the discussion is that meat is a legal product. It's a natural part of a complex and healthy diet. Therefore, the centre lot opposes a proposal to restrict the possibility for meat producers to advertise, because it is not the country’s funds used – this is financed by the producers themselves. The centre party is occupied with clean, safe and Norwegian food. We therefore believe that agricultural policy must continue to be designed to increase self-sufficiency, particularly in sheep and cattle, where it has been under-cover. I am a little happy with these commercials that are sent on TV. My main impression is that the message is that it is simple, fast and easy to make real food from the bottom of. It is a sensible and important message to get there at a time when ready-made pizza, boxing food and other processed products dominate greatly. So I'm surprised that the SV, the Left and the Environment Party, the Greens, in a public health and environmental perspective, choose to attack the sheep cabbage, as they do in this proposal. It is a proposal that the centre party will not support, but we would like to have a proper and broad debate on the whole scheme. We'll be able to do that later.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e682	I'm happy with sheep cabbage, but I'm also happy with the facts. I am happy in the environment and climate, and I think public health is important. So I also thought it was important to start with a little fact: 15 pst. from anthropogenic climate emissions from meat and milk production – 15 pst. It is more than the whole transport sector, including air traffic. The production of one kilogram of beef produces 50 times higher climate emissions than the production of one kilogram of potatoes. For the past 25 years, the annual meat consumption in Norway has increased from 53 kilograms to 75 kilograms. This means that if each of us ate meat one day less each week, it would have cut the climate emissions corresponding to 200,000 cars. In other words, there is no marginal problem we are talking about here – it is a very important issue. And this is just the environmental part of it. If you look at what's relevant to people's health, almost half of us have more red meat than the Health Directorate recommends. In a context like this, it's clear that it's a paradox that it's used 147 million a year. kr in advertising to get us to eat more meat – it includes the part that the Egg and Meat Information Office uses. We cannot and should not forbid anyone to advertise their products – that is not what this is all about. This is about Stortinget taking responsibility for what is the responsibility of Stortinget. From an environmental and health perspective, there is an unfortunate development we see. And it is clear that when both the Health Directorate and the Intergovernmental Panel clearly advocate a reduction in meat consumption as an instrument for relatively lifestyle diseases and greenhouse gas emissions, there is something one should take the most seriously. The way sales laws are practiced, does not take height for them, nor does it mean public health or the environment. On the other hand, it allows for the imposition of a turnover tax on agricultural products. In other words, it's not like the Center Party gives the impression that this is some kind of voluntary scheme. It's a political responsibility how this system is run. Meat producers can use as much as they want to volunteer to advertise for what they want – that's not what we're talking about here. The turnover tax is paid by producers of meat, cereals, eggs and other dairy products and is used to finance provisioning measures. There are professional measures, fine enough, but it is also used for information business: advertising. And at the heart of the matter is that when it comes to information, it is channelled to a much higher degree by means of advertising of meat than by means of advertising of, for example, meat. fruit and green. It is contrary to the dietary council of the Health Directorate, and it is contrary to Stortinget's objectives in the climate and environment field. In the left, we – as the other proposers do – believe that the funding model for these information offices, which the Stortinget decides, gives a conflict between Stortinget's objectives in the field of agricultural policy, Stortinget's objectives for the public, and the objectives of the climate and the environment. So the question we have to ask is not whether we like sheep's cabbage or not, but whether we want to see a holistic and harmonious use of trading laws, so that all political leaders are impressed. That's what's being proposed here. In her letter from the Council of State, she points out that there is a selection that is now working to evaluate the system for balancing agricultural commodity markets. It's all right, but it's still the case that, from the point of view of the proposers, we see a clear need to change the law, which we also believe does not give clear indications about the mandate of the selection. We on the Left are upholding our four concrete proposals today and hope that it is possible to gather support for them. There are reasonable moderate proposals – they do not turn anything down – but they give a clear order to the government that: The law on turnover should also serve the purpose of health and the environment. The Council of Turnover is also extended to have representation from the interests mentioned, without the need for the agricultural industries to lose their majority there being a change, so that the part of the funds transferred to the information offices is not bound to the type of product from which the fees are charged, and not least the purpose for which we should evaluate the system in its wholeness. I don't see the plurality in the committee as a total rejection of what we're proposing here, and I appreciate the positive signals that have come, among other things. by the Labour Party in the debate. That's what I think is important, because this is not a small, marginal problem. It's a big and important issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e719	Has the President understood correctly when he believes that the representative Rotevatn will include the four minority proposals from the Left in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e722	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e727	The representative of Sveinung Rotevatn has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e730	The more we meated one, the more meat we produce, and the more meat advertising we get. It's the simple logic and the spiral that the proposers want to come out of. As has been pointed out in several rounds from the department hall and in this hall, the law of 1936 has expired. He's gone out on the date, he doesn't agree to our time, he doesn't agree to the knowledge we have today. It is clear that increasing meat consumption cannot be a goal in itself in a country such as Norway in 2015. We know that there is a series of challenges associated with meat production and meat intake, both for health and for the environment. According to the Health Directorate, the total meat consumption in the country was twice as high in 2010 as in 1970, and the State Department of Consumer Research has found that Norwegian consumers are being pressured to increase their meat consumption further. For several years, retail trade has had massive low-priced campaigns on meat to lure consumers into the store. This – as the proposers point out – is part of that spiral, and we hope the Stortinget can see with a fresh look at the proposal for a representative that we have put forward. The result of this spiral is that today, three times more money is spent in Norway on advertising meat than on fruit and vegetables. There is no one, I think, in this room who will claim that it is more important that people eat meat than fruit and green, but that is the result of this policy from 1936. The egg and meat information office has three times as many muscles: in 2013 61.5 million were distributed. to market for meat – we do not believe that agriculture wants to be exempted from the objective of promoting health and environmental consumption. The self-enhancing funding of the Information Office is in line with the Environment and Health Policy objectives of the EEA. This can hardly be solved by a single proposal, but it is nevertheless the case that marketing activities organised and managed by state schemes must take account of the major challenges facing us as a society and as a planet. I hope the proposal will be looked at freshly and that at least this proposal can start a process in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e746	There is a somewhat sad illustration of a lack of willingness to address this issue when both the Right and the Center parties make this a matter of attack on the sheep cabbage and a question of banning meat producers from advertising their products. That's not what it's about. The question is whether it is the task of Stortingen to maintain a legal system that promotes ever-increasing meat advertising at the expense of advertising other food products that are environmentally, climate and healthier. The proposal under discussion is simply about the fact that we have a law in Norway that was established during an inter-war period, that is, the law on turnover, which was intended to promote Norwegian agricultural products. One effect of the law on the marketing of meat is a spiral in which the Nordics are eating more and more meat, in violation of health and environmental policy objectives and in violation of our international climate commitments, among others. because the Sale Act establishes and maintains a financing system by the so-called Information Offices operating this spiral. This proposes the Left, SV and the Greens in all modesty to ask the government to come back to the Stortinge with a proposal for a solution. As we know, revenue comes from both provisioning measures and so-called information measures from fees paid by food producers. The way the law works, there's more meat advertising the more meat is produced, and for every advertising crown that goes to meat, there's more meat consumption. Because there can't be any doubt that the whole point is that meat advertising works. So the idea that it doesn't matter that this advertising system exists -- it puts a very big question mark on why you have to maintain it. Because we have these systems of spending billions of dollars on meat advertising in general every year in Norway, the meat consumption is increasing. For us in the Green Party, it is therefore quite disappointing that a majority in the Committee will not even address the serious issue raised. The majority in the Committee chooses to postpone the matter because they are waiting for a sample, but that sample actually has a different mandate. The committee, which evaluates the system for balancing commodity markets, does not have the mandate to assess the impact of the information offices' activities and meat consumption, and that is the effect that is at the heart of our proposal. Food policy – and information offices – has an impact on the consumer side and has an impact on other policy objectives. That is why it is too subtle to treat this only as a regulatory measure for agricultural operators, but the majority of the committee will not extend the mandate to the sample so that we can have the overall assessment that we are asking for. The National Institute of Consumer Research makes it clear that Norwegian consumers are under a strong pressure to buy and eat more and more meat, and that the pressure is working. And the system we are now discussing comes to the top of the abundant advertising that food chains and sales are already on their own. Later today, we are going to discuss several proposals to strengthen consumer information, and all parties except the government parties later to be for the creation of a daily food portal. We also support that in the Greens/Greens/EFA, but what we are discussing here, the Sales Act, is a system that maintains the impression of providing information to consumers, but which is actually advertising. There are very many consumers who experience the concept of a ‘information office’ as quite misleading: the information office – i.e. matprat.no – does not work on behalf of consumers, nor does it work for Norwegian farmers alone, and not least: the advertising provided by this office is general, and food councils and recipes from there are not prepared to promote Norwegian meat production in particular – it actually advertises as much for imported meat as for Norwegian meat. We therefore hope that, in a later round, the Committee will reconsider its position on this proposal and take a serious look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e763	The representatives Hansson, Gjerstad and Rotevatn have made a proposal to amend the Sales Act in order to reduce the advertising of meat. The aim of the change is to reduce the information activities of the agricultural information offices. I believe that consumers have to be free to buy what they want from their own preferences, without the authorities regulating this in one direction or another. I am pleased that the Storting has noticed that we are evaluating the system for balancing the commodity markets in agriculture in a sample led by Professor Erling Hjelmeng. The sample shall review the current agricultural commodity market regulation system and propose alternative ways of facilitating market balancing. The sample shall assess the need for changes in the turnover law and evaluate and assess against objectives of enhanced competition in the value chain, cost-effective, profitable and sustainable food production and agriculture across the country. In other words, the information activities are one of the elements that the sample is designed to evaluate. The committee shall carry out its evaluation against a wide range of criteria that I believe cover the concerns of the proposers. The Committee shall submit its proposals in June 2015. Their report will provide a sound factual basis for discussing the information activities. I am pleased that the committee considers it appropriate to await the report of the sample. I look forward to coming back to Stortinget when the sample has presented its report and the government has prepared its proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e774	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e777	I have three questions for the Council of State. The first is that the Council of State says that consumers have to be free to eat and buy what they want, without it being regulated in one direction or another. Then I wonder: Does the Council of State really think it's not regulated in one direction today? With the law on sales, the levying of taxes that apply to all, and the use of them against meat spreads, is there not any regulation in one direction? That's question one. The second question is: does the Council agree that, from a public health perspective, a Northman is too much red meat? Three questions are: Does the Council agree with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that we are forced to reduce meat consumption in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e786	As to whether it is regulated in one direction, there are very many product types for which advertising and advertising are carried out. When you watch TV, you see an advertisement for fish, you see advertising for red meat, you see advertising for white meat, you see advertising for fruit and vegetables – you see in fact advertising for the most part. I believe that consumers have a lot of different products to choose from, and that it is ultimately the ones who decide what they want to eat, when they get into the store. When it comes to eating too much red meat, it's quite possible that we do it in relation to the recommendations made by the Health Directorate, but I don't think it's up to the politicians to control people's choice of dinner menu. They almost have to do it themselves. So, of course, it's the public's job to inform about what would be wise to eat, but from there to direct people, I think I'm going quite far.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e793	I have three follow-up questions. The first is: does the Council not see that there is a difference between advertising which a voluntary company operates on the part of producers and operators, and advertising which is in practice imposed on the State, through charging and management for the use of the money? That's question one. Two questions are: Is it the government's view that the Health Directorate's recommendations on diet should not have any impact on the policy being pursued? In that case, I would say that is quite alarming. Three questions are: can the Council of State answer my previous three questions, whether it agrees that in order to bring down the global and Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, it should be a goal that a less red meat?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e802	As far as advertising is concerned, I believe that we are affected by many different channels. As for what is in the Sales Act, I have referred in my first answer to the fact that it is being reviewed in this sample that is now working, so we will have an opportunity to discuss it later. But in general, the advertising effect comes from many sides. With regard to the Health Directorate's recommendations, I believe they exist in a lot of areas, and of course we need to have a responsibility to inform people and to facilitate them to make the right choices. So let's do that. in the case of smoke – we do it in different areas. But at the end of the day, you're the individual who decides what to eat, and I think in a liberal society that's the way it has to be. Then it is up to us politicians to facilitate that we can offer what Norwegian consumers want. For example: meat, is the situation that we have to import quite a lot to meet the demand that is in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e809	I see the answer now to the Council of State on the Health Directorate as a step in the right direction, that it is clear that when the Health Directorate makes recommendations, there should also have implications for the state policy that is being pursued. So I look forward to discussing it, and I hope that the Council of State has an open mind when it comes to the proposals that we make today, when we look forward to the further process. But I am still asking for an answer to my third question: Is the Council of State and Government in agreement that high meat consumption is a contributing cause of global climate change – a major contributory cause – and that it should be a political goal to reduce it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e816	With regard to agriculture and climate change emissions, I believe it is important that we look, of course, at the role that agriculture has and facilitates that we can bring it down. This really applies to all types of agricultural activity, and therefore, of course, we are working on what steps can be taken there. So I think that as far as the Health Directorate and the recommendations etc. are concerned, of course, we're going to discuss it, but imagining that we're in some way e.g. must start charging red meat versus other types of meat in order to control which products you want to eat is something that this government will have major problems with being able to attend.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e823	I am not sure if I could follow the reasoning given to the Minister when it came to advertising. We know that advertising works, and when advertising works, it means something that the state facilitates by advertising. I have two questions. The one thing is, does the Council of State think that there is too much advertising pressure on consumers to buy meat? The second: Does the Council of State mean that the Nordics today are too much red meat?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e828	I think it's not my role as a politician to be a meat police officer and meddle in what people want to eat, but it's my role to facilitate the production of the goods that Norwegian consumers want. It's like in Norway that we actually produce too little red meat to cover our own market. That's also why all the parties in this room agree that we should increase that production, which, of course, could also mean increased greenhouse gas emissions – but that's all for that. In the case of too much pressure, it is up to the individual to judge. Personally, I don't think I notice much pressure, but I think there is a reason to look at the sales law and the arrangements that are there. That's exactly why we've also put down a sample that's going to work on looking at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e838	I agree with the minister that we should not be meat policing, but the one thing that happens here is meatpushar. There's a big difference. The question here is if you want to slow down the meat push a little bit. We get to come back to that. The second question I raised was whether there was too much pressure. The State Consumer Research Institute has done the research the Minister is looking for, as the Minister does not feel that she herself is under pressure. The National Institute of Consumer Research has found that Norwegian consumers are being pressured to buy meat. Will the Minister consider this type of research?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e845	In the case of advertising having its origin in the Sales Act, there is something that needs to be reviewed and that we will come back to in the report on 1 June. As far as other advertising is concerned, I do not believe it is for politicians to control how the advertising money of private companies is used – as long as it is within the law that applies at all times. It's not like I have a role as a meat polisher. What is my role is to make sure that we produce the goods that Norwegian consumers want. Today, the situation is that in Norway we produce less red meat than Norwegian consumers want. This is precisely why we want to stimulate increased domestic production.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e852	We can only note that the Council of State is among those who make themselves the spokespersons of this remarkable logic that advertising is something that serves the consumer what they want, and not the other way around, which most advertisers think you're facing. The Council of State initially concluded that consumers must be free to choose the food they want without any influence on them by the authorities. That's exactly what's the question. Does the Council of State feel that it is the task of the authorities to maintain a statutory system that provides additional and self-enhancing advertising for meat, when you have a free market where you can advertise for yourself? When the Council of State considers that it is not the responsibility of the authorities to influence people's food choices, why should we maintain a statutory system that strengthens meat advertising?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e859	As I was concerned, the authorities are already influencing our choice of food today. This is done through the dietary councils of the Health Directorate. Someone chooses to follow them, others choose not to follow them. You can't be with consumers in the store and put the right goods in the basket for them. It is the individual who has to take responsibility for it. So I believe that I have been quite clear in this discussion that with regard to the statutory system, with regard to the law on sales and advertising that goes through that system, I have not said that I am a member of it. What I have said is that there is now a sample that is working to look at that law, and that will soon come back with proposals for any changes. I await the work before the government will deal with the matter and come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e866	This means that the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e871	I understand that the SV and the Left are eager after a work is done on this, and that there must be solutions. It is true that both the ministry and the agriculturalcontracting parties have also previously indicated that the Turnover Council must carry out a current and critical assessment of the use of resources for brand-neutral marketing. This is also mentioned in the final protocols of the agricultural sector, both in 2009, 2010 and 2013. It may seem that the actors themselves are moving towards reducing the marketing activity that the proposers will achieve, and this reinforces the argument for assessing any changes in the trading laws from a health perspective. I think that a health perspective needs to be taken seriously in order to take both the proposers and the proposal, and I also think it is right that we wait for the Hjelmeng selection report.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e876	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Economic and Social Committee and of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. 4 and 5 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e903	At the request of the Business Committee and the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e910	There are two representative proposals – one from the Labour Party and one from the Left – which are discussed together. One of them has been discussed by the Family and Culture Committee and one has been discussed by the Food and Agriculture Committee, but they are also concerned with the labelling of origin of food and the establishment of a daily food portal. The latter has been discussed in both committees. This is not the first, and hardly the last, debate we have on food security. In recent months there have been a number of debates in the public vocabulary on food security and consumer concerns. We have had debates on antibiotic use and resistance in particular. In some cases, even some doctors have gone out and warned against eating certain foods, and over the last few weeks we have seen new cases of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in Norwegian livestock farming. As I see it, this is part of the back cover of the proposal on the labelling of origin of food and the creation of a daily food portal. There is a shared position in the Business Committee in this matter. At the same time, I feel that there is an overall commitment to food security. All members of the Committee agree to provide consumers with good and after-sales information on foodstuffs. Together, we believe it is important to provide good information on products and the ability to compare them in order to strengthen the consumer's ability to make better choices. The majority of the nutrition committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, propose that a daily food portal should contain comparable information on the nutritional content, ingredients, price, origin of the product, allergens and where the product can be purchased. The majority also propose that such a portal should be in place by 2016 at the latest. This corresponds to the majority of the members of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture. Some of the recommendations we are considering today were already proposed by the Food Chains Committee in NOU 2011: 4. The Committee recommended that the nutrition declaration for food should become mandatory and that the labelling of origin, the producer and the place of manufacture should be introduced as a mandatory labelling, also for the chain’s own brands. The minority in the Business Committee, consisting of the Right Party and the Advance Party, proposes that the government submit proposals on how to ensure good and reliable information on groceries to consumers. They also ask the government to assess the impact and cost of setting up a daily food portal. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food, on its side, points out in its reply to the Food Committee that the general labelling rules deriving from the new EU Food Information Regulation entered into force on 13 December 2014 and that the nutrition labelling rules will enter into force on 13 December 2016 in this country. The Ministry states that the new legislation on food information will make it easier for consumers to read and understand what the food contains. For the Christian People's Party, it is essential that the consumer be placed in the centre. As the leader of the first Food Power Choice, Einar Steensnæs, said, "The consumer is the hero." The Christian People's Party will give the consumer more power. We as consumers – as we are all – are concerned about what we do and how we do it. We are constantly seeking information to make more informed choices, and then it is important that the information is neutral, impartial, correct and up-to-date, so that we can be sure that the choices we make are right for us. When the consumer can make objective and good choices, based on what preferences he or she actually has, the consumer will regain power, as the Christian People's Party sees it. That is why the Christian People's Party supports the creation of a daily food portal. The Christian People's Party wants us as consumers to see the full picture and thus be able to take our choices much more freely. For free elections often also become much better choices. On that basis, I recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e933	I can stand behind the speakers' posts completely. I'm glad. I want to thank you for the job that has been done. It is the irony of fate that while the government parties and others are sitting and licking wounds in the Nydalen, the Stortinget now has an opportunity to take a decision that may be of the first substantive decisions in the food field, forming a majority that will actually bring many of the challenges forward somewhat. As the rapporteur was in the Chamber, we have had enough of investigations into how food chains work, and how power is distributed, and there have been many discussions around it. We have even received clear recommendations through the investigations that have been made as to what kind of tools you can get to improve the distribution of power in the food chain, and not least to ensure that we have effective and good competition, which also makes it possible for the consumer to actually get, as the rapporteur also said, more power, in the sense that it is easier to choose, and to get better insight into what is offered by the market. For me, it is also strange that the Right and Advance Party do not further contribute to a more qualified majority in this matter. There are two parties that are known to have free competition as a gospel. It is quite clear that one of the prerequisites for free competition is said by leading theorists in the field to be that the information must then be complete to those who are to be consumers and to those who are to be customers. It is also quite clear that in the food sector there are significant challenges of a competitive nature in the structure, there are few competitors, and it is difficult to understand what is actually the reality of price and not least quality and content. So I would like to point out very strongly that from the Workers' Party's side, one of the reasons for promoting these proposals was just to give the consumer the opportunity to make real choices. If you go in and look at the price comparisons that are made, there are constant debates about how good they are quality. I believe there has been good reason to ask questions about how correct the outcome of various shopping baskets is in fact. There is an opportunity here to have a significantly safer and more quality-based assessment of such conditions, which, in my opinion, is a prerequisite for an efficient market. Many measures have been highlighted in the debate on improving the competitive conditions in the food industry. I have to say that I think the government has had a defensive line attached to this, and it surprises me. It surprises me when it comes to the ready-to-use law on good trading practices, which, in my opinion, should have been promoted a long time ago, that we do not now take this as the bulk of the population, and probably, will be voting today on the daily food portal, and not least on the matter of labelling. I just want to say to everyone first on the matter of labelling, that in many ways I find the challenges you face, as reasonably obvious. If you are going to buy an cheese today, I just think it would be missing that – sail if it was a cheese that was subject to so-called private label, i.e. a brand of its own – you could at least know where the cheese was produced. This could perhaps result in more people buying the products when they were given the idea that they were actually almost identical to traditional branded products, so that they could buy the goods with good reason which were the most reasonable. But the most important thing about labelling is, of course, the need that the population has attached to many of the discussions we have had on food quality. As far as the portal is concerned, I am pleased that large players in the industry now seem to end up establishing such a portal, as has been done in other types of fields where consumers face very difficult choices, and where it now appears that large operators believe that this is the way to go, and in this way also supports it. A good day for the consumer, if this goes through in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e946	I am pleased that the rapporteur pointed out that everyone is behind the intentions, but we are very much in doubt if you reach them. There are two proposals under consideration. One is about better food labelling, and the other is about a food portal. That people know what they're buying, and that they have good information, we all agree on the importance, but it's worth noting the Council's letter to the Committee on Food Labelling. As the rapporteur says, the EU has already come with its food information regulation, and it is incorporated into the EEA Agreement. So you have to work together here. However, that letter also states that the European Union is quite concerned about the amount of costs actually incurred in the food chain. And it is worth noting that studies, at least in the EU, show that consumer interest in getting better information is also greatly impaired if the price of the product rises. So here's a nice balance between getting good information and not imposing on the whole food chain a cost you don't deserve. Nor is the food market in Norway isolated from the rest of the world. We have just heard that there is increasing competition internationally, and we also see from the statistics that imports are increasing. Ergo is really no other solution than what the Council of State points out in its letter, that we need to keep an eye on what is happening in the EU. Of course, we have to implement what we do there, but this is an international challenge that we have to solve together with our neighbouring countries. That is why we are asking for this to be investigated. So to the food portal -- because here's a lot of questions. The question is whether we want to increase competition or whether we want to start tying up competition. The question is also how to do it. This is actually a huge ICT project that you start without knowing the costs. I don't know where Storberget has his references, but when I ask the industry, they say that this is almost a new moon landing. For all chains, it has special ICT software, and it has to be connected in a portal. Heaven and sea, I say -- for this is going to be complicated. Fifteen million. DKK in costs of establishment and 10 million. kr in annual operation is very close. I am quite sure of that prognosis, and then we have not even included the costs we incur from the players in the market. The other thing is, since here we have parties that are usually very concerned with the local stores in many ways: what happens if we get an effective price portal – which I doubt we get? Will it not stimulate travel activities? People will start to get in the car and drive past their own local store and to a larger mall. Because if you ask the food chains, the price varies enormously. The price varies almost every day. The campaigns are many, and they are definitely most in the big stores in central areas. The questions are so amazing. Competition supervision also warns against this because they believe that this leads to price coordination. We might want to listen to that, not just look at us blindly at the fact that we're going to bring information and price to the consumer, because it's actually another side of it, that even those who are market players get the opportunity to cooperate. And there are a lot fewer of them. So we should stop and think through this and ask the government to analyze the whole issue in order to see what kind of costs we incur here. Are we achieving our goals? Will this lead to more price cooperation? Will it be a more efficient market? How do we make this work – together with our neighbours – without imposing excessive costs on us? It's a mystery to me that we're not stopping up. I would recommend that the parties consider voting in favour of the proposals of the Right and the Advance Party. At least we'll have a little break, where we can actually assess how we're doing the best – not jump on and establish something that we don't really have an understanding of the consequences of. I refer to the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e967	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has referred to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e970	The intention of the proposal to ensure the labelling of origin on food and to establish a food portal is good. The aim is to strengthen consumers' knowledge of the food we trade and also to strengthen competition in the market. As far as the latter is concerned, strengthening competition will, unfortunately, be the opposite in some areas. That is why the Progress Party is very sceptical about the proposals. We want first to evaluate the consequences. The reason is that such a portal does not address the underlying weaknesses of the industry, namely that a handful of players control the entire market. In addition, such a portal opens with price information for both price cooperation and increased food prices. It's not without further problems. A portal must be continuously updated if it is to achieve what the majority wants. The cost of only updating such an information portal will be high. Several have mentioned ICT costs up to 600 million. kr for the food industry alone. The costs will undoubtedly be placed on the final sum of the food that consumers have to pay and will hardly contribute to enhanced competition. Furthermore, a European food industry organisation, FoodDrinkEurope, has estimated that it will be up to 50 pst. increased costs of marking of origin. The progress team agrees that tagging food is important. It is also agreed in the EU and therefore the Food Information Regulation in the EU entered into force in December 2014. This is now also incorporated into the EEA Agreement, as mentioned by Gunnar Gundersen. In 2016, the EU’s requirements for nutrition declaration also come into force, and businesses can already apply the new rules, so a lot is already happening. In assessing what was to be labelled, the EU Commission carefully assessed further labelling, including the origin labelling of processed meat products. However, it was then concluded, based on a separate report on this, that consumers’ interest in the origin labelling of meat products was not so important if it resulted in price increases, which meant that we did not go further with this. Such mandatory state designation of origin would require radical adaptations in the food value chain. So we're very sceptical about that, at least without thorough investigation, which has not been done. So there are several uncertain points in this case, both in terms of: whether there are advantages for consumers that there are uncertain costs for industry that there is doubt as to whether the competitive situation at all is socio-economicly reasonable; However, the majority of population goes beyond the EU and requires further labelling. I also know that there are questions whether we in Norway actually have the opportunity to impose additional national requirements on the labelling of origin in addition to what is now in EU and EEA legislation as a result of the Food Information Regulation. It has obviously not been determined either. I also have great doubts about the realism of the proposal and what is written in the position that this portal should be set up «later during 2016», knowing that the Consumer Council report estimates that this will take between two and three years to develop. Ensuring increased competition and better information to consumers is a complex and more complex problem than the proposals, which have so far been addressed, have addressed. The intentions are, as I said, good, but are likely to give rise to increased food prices and weaken competitiveness for Norwegian food. It is also not exactly a hand bill for goods placed on the market. In my view, border trade is likely to increase. A real improvement in the competitive situation and prices will only be achieved on the day we have more players entering the market. Greater product diversity and more players provide better competition and better prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1004	This is about two things. One is better labelling and information for consumers; the other is the creation of a daily food portal. The centre party has come to the conclusion that we support both sides. It has been said very wisely about the need to know what is in the food, and there I have to say that I react a little to the Council's letter of reply. Reference is made to the report of the European Commission of 17 December 2013, which states that a wish for the labelling of origin of products with meat will fall if it leads to an increase in prices. I disagree with that, because I'm actually willing to pay some extra ear to know where the meat is produced. I note that the Council of State in the same letter endorses the assessment made by the European Commission. I'm not sure the bulk of the population shares such an idea of the value of knowing where the food is produced. This must be followed up. Consumers need more information, and we should never fear to provide information to consumers. Then to the proposal for a daily food portal, or ‘monthly landing’, which the representative Gundersen chose to refer to it as. It is also an important measure. The government parties want to investigate more, but at some point, the Storting must put its foot down. There has been a lot of talk about consumer power from this government, but we had the process of setting up a law on good trade. That process went under the previous government. Now that process has stopped because one is not sure if this is the right tool – something new is going to happen. Daily food portal: the same thing, this is great, we agree on the intentions, everybody says, but we have to find something else. I wonder what this other one is. The only thing we've seen from this government in terms of consumer power is a strange press conference with the food chains, which was called up to the Council of State to answer questions about the avocado price last summer. It's not taking consumers seriously. The government is showing considerable speech power. When it comes to action, it becomes much weaker. In the case of the food portal, there must be some assumptions. First of all, it must contain information about the goods. There must be an opportunity for manufacturers to make their products visible. For the centre party, this prize hunt is not an end in itself, and it must not evolve to become a pure price portal. This should be a daily food portal. Other leads are that it must be easy for both manufacturers and shops to deal with, and there must be a basis for developing new services based on the information contained in the portal. To the objection of the Competition Authority: There I record that it comes from a press release where the same competition director takes a settlement with the Norwegian customs protection system and the basis for large parts of Norwegian food production, so that one can ask whether it is the trade union body or whether the politician is talking there. At least this kind of playback weakens our trust and confidence in the Competition Director's advice. Then it's also said that if there's full information, it can provide a basis for price cooperation. That's a strange position. Is that so that we should be careful to let consumers know, for example: what is the cost of petrol, because it can provide a basis for price cooperation? Should we be careful about what the telecommunications companies do per conversation, because it can create price cooperation? Should we be afraid to inform what the lawyers charge at an hourly rate, because it can provide a basis for price cooperation? That's a strange argument that's being put forward here. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports We agree on the intentions, but we still have good things to know – and it is beginning to be a long time since this government joined – what the government intends to do to strengthen competition in the food sector, for the benefit of Norwegian consumers and for the benefit of Norwegian food producers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1021	I would first like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for their good work and for their good results. There are two important proposals that are up to us today, two issues that will create a better relationship of power between producers, food chains and consumers. Strengthening consumer power is important for the Left, and therefore we have promoted the proposal to create a daily food portal. We are also in favour of the proposal by the Workers' Party on the labelling of processed meat and processed dairy products. These are two important steps towards increased transparency in the industry. People are very concerned about the content of the food they eat, and in other commodities that they surround in everyday life. People need different information, but what's certain is that people want to know and understand what products contain, and they're also concerned about price and country of origin. When people were asked in a large European consumer survey whether they would pay more to know where the food they eat comes from, a large majority answered yes. Despite the need for information, consumers feel that it is almost impossible to inform themselves about the content of different goods. Consumers experience very difficult information about ingredients, nutrient content, price and how the goods they buy have been produced. Digitisation of the content of goods and compilation in a dedicated food portal will make important and necessary information for consumers more accessible and will improve the distribution of power. This was also pointed out in NOU 2011: 4 Food, power and power, where one of the proposals to create a better balance was to establish a food portal. With today's technology, it is strange that the content of groceries has not already been digitised, including on packaging and not only in the computer system of manufacturers and shops. Most of it has already been digitised, but it has not been made sufficiently available to consumers. The content is written in small print, and it is the use of many foreign words, rather unintelligible foreign words, which we cannot expect consumers to understand. It is strange that the information is not better available when it could have been done several years ago and there is still a requirement for a number of types of information on the product to be on the packaging. By digitising the content of the product, consumers will be able to read easily and quickly the content of QR-codes digitally using a telephone or reading board. Think of what a good tool it will be for a visual impaired person, who could inflate the font size on a reading board, or how good it is for the asthma and Allergy Association to develop an app you can read from the contents of the product, and who can then warn the consumer if the product contains something you are allergic to. Digitisation will open up a wide range of applications and will be a good tool for the consumer to better inform himself about the groceries they buy. Available and free data could provide a range of possibilities for private and non-profit actors to compile data in a way that is requested by the consumer. A food portal could also be very useful for small producers because they get an effective channel where they can make their products visible. I think a lot of consumers would have chosen a particular product if an organisation they trust, considered the product to be a threat to the rain forest, that it had been produced through the use of child labour or pose a health risk. For example, there has been considerable pressure from consumers to remove palm oil from food. This is an example showing that consumers change behaviour based on available information and that many make choices about goods based on several considerations, such as their own health, environment, ethics, etc. I think it's in everyone's interest to be transparent about groceries, especially given that we all need to be involved in moving society in a more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly direction. I'm glad it's about to be traded.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1040	When asked on a general basis about what they are involved in agricultural and food policy, the Norwegians respond: safe food, higher animal welfare, better environment, etc. Nevertheless, it has become typical of Norwegian that we are looking for price. We spend a record low share of our income on food, and what we bought, we throw about a third of it. The large chain of shops and large agricultural cooperatives are well aware that consumers respond very quickly to new information and that they change trends and attitudes if the information is taken correctly. That's one of the reasons why on the one hand we're very concerned about the trust in Norwegian food, but on the other hand we very often don't get information about, for example. the conditions for the soil, the animals, the farmer, etc. It keeps away from us, and it has its reason. So this is the rug. Consumption, and consumer behaviour, are both price, culture and policy issues. It is very important to remember when some people seem to justify agricultural and food policy almost exclusively because consumers want the cheapest food possible. It becomes easily a self - fulfilling prophecy, and it is a prophecy far from being entirely true. Consumer information is a democratic issue, because the consumer has a very strong influence on the market and on agricultural and food policy, provided that the consumer receives information that provides him or her with a basis for acting – literally – correctly. In addition, information and product diversity are a matter of consumer freedom. Many of us look for many more factors than the price when we shop food, only we can see that information. We are also interested in allergenicity, ethical choices, etc. in addition to considerations I have mentioned before. An electronic portal that makes it possible to obtain this information not only makes it possible to make the right purchases, it also makes it possible to plan their purchases, plan their consumption, in a much better way. Therefore, what a daily food portal contains is important. It must be able to show all the products available in Norway, not only those available from the largest chains — it must show all its diversity. The Green Party will therefore vote to ask the government to establish a daily food portal, and we are grateful that this proposal has arrived. We will also vote for the origin marking of meat, which is one of several grounds for conscious choice. On Thursday, it becomes clear if Coop and ICA get to join forces. If they get that, we get three food chains in Norway that will dominate something like 99 pst. of the market. Labelling and a daily food portal are a very important step in the opposite direction, towards the concentration of power in the retail trade, but that is far from enough. For the Green Party, it is also important in itself to strengthen the position of smaller suppliers, new food chains and individual local sales. Therefore, we have recently made a cautious proposal to ask the government to consider lowering the limit of what is considered to be dominant actors in the groceries market, from 40 pst. up to 30 p.p., as they have done in Finland. I'm sorry, but we remember that this is part of the whole picture. Earlier today, we debated how the state actively contributes to increased meat advertising by means of the law on trade, and therefore increased meat consumption, contrary to what is generally considered to be good health policy and environmental policy objectives. What citizens see as consumer information through matprat.no is, in reality, general advertising of meat, maintained by a legal system. This is probably an example of conditions that counteract the free choice that the consumer should have in a well-enlightened market. The Green Party will therefore vote in case No. 4 votes in favour, in favour, of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr I on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and also put it to the vote. 1 to case No. 5 – to establish a daily food portal, as the Consumer Council also recommends – and for Roman numerals II, on the labelling of origin of meat as a prerequisite for good and conscious food choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1063	It is displayed in the configuration in case No. Four to two motions for a resolution. I will take note of the establishment of a daily food portal in my post, and then the Minister of Agriculture and Food will address the second part, which concerns the labelling of origin. It's been about moon landing or not. When I hear the representative Pollestad's posts, which are about this government not doing anything at all for consumer power, I wonder if we're on two very different planets. I totally disagree with that. In fact, this government has strengthened consumer power, both by launching an extension of the right to complain about various goods, and – not least – by adopting a new right of withdrawal directive. We have also created a new price portal for electricity in the direction of the Consumer Council, and we have expanded the Finansportalen, so this government delivers to consumers. First of all, I would like to say that I share the views of the proposers that digital product information and good digital tools can help make everyday life easier for consumers. The government is committed to ensuring good and reliable information for consumers. It is precisely from this point of view that in 2014 we took the initiative to set up a new price portal for electricity in the direction of the Consumer Council, which will be launched during the spring. As I have mentioned, we have also gone to expand the Financial Portal with information on pension products and on the personal economy for young people. The proposal to establish a publicly funded daily food portal was first promoted in NOU 2011:4 Food, power and power, which would assess how the power of food chains could be balanced in relation to producers and consumer interests. Since the portal proposal was only briefly outlined in the NOU, my department commissioned the Consumer Council to specify and assess how such a portal could be designed. The Consumer Council’s proposal existed in the summer of 2013 and was assessed by the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion in consultation with the most concerned departments. As I have explained earlier, the government's conclusion was that we chose not to go further with the proposal. The justification was multiple pages: In our view, the effects or consequences of a portal – for consumers, for business and for society – were not well documented. Competitive objections – which meant that with the structure of this market, a full price information portal would increase the risk of price cooperation and thus increase prices in the shops, which would again affect the consumer. Otherwise, a portal solution to cover, inter alia: prices of all products in ‘real time’ and in each individual store, be very demanding to obtain technically – as many have experienced. When, through the discussion of the Business Committee, there appears to be a majority in the UK to set up a daily food portal, I will follow this up in the best possible way in cooperation with other relevant government councils. In this work, we need to work, among other things. address the following challenges: The Consumer Council’s 2013 report provided for a development phase of two to three years. The comments of the Business Committee, which have been included in the referral in this case, refer to the establishment of a portal ‘by the end of 2016’. The time aspect in itself will therefore be very demanding. We also need to ensure adequate investigation of the case and the involvement of the private stakeholders involved, i.e. the commercial industry, in the further work. The consequences for these must be properly investigated, and they must be given the opportunity to comment on the matter, so that the final proposal, if it is a majority today, can be the best possible. In my opinion, the 2013 Consumer Council report does not provide sufficient grounds for launching a development project directly. I therefore find it necessary to go through the premises before I – as soon as possible – will report back to Stortinget how best to follow up that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1100	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1103	It was a little strange post, I have to say that with all due respect. In this case, which is about food, it is argued that a power portal and a financial portal have been established. It's like most of us don't eat electricity or money. Here we discuss food – perhaps the most important product to be purchased by the consumer – for health, but also for other types of welfare. What makes it appropriate in the electricity and financial sector to establish a portal and that there is no risk of price cooperation in those areas, which is the argument against food portals? And what makes these two areas not the disadvantages described in terms of a food portal, like that? that the goods in total are becoming more expensive?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1108	First of all, we received that investigation from the Consumer Council in 2013, and it clearly said that we need to spend more time on this. With regard to the specific question raised by the representative of Storberget, it appears that both the structure and the competitive conditions of the daily food sector – and it is the competition authorities that say – that there can be particular incentives for tacit price cooperation, for a few large chains share the whole market. The cost of setting up new actors is high. In this way, the daily food area differs from other markets, where the public has established the price portal, such as the financial portal and in dental services and electricity. Information on the prices of competitors, so that price changes can be rapidly responded to, is crucial for coordination, and we know that the chains are currently using considerable resources to monitor the prices of competitors. The danger is that a portal that provides full transparency facilitates more coordination than other portals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1115	I believe that this was not an answer to the question. All the objections you have to a food portal can be traveled to Finansportalen and also the portal that regulates electricity. At my discretion, it may be precisely in the sectors where you suspect the most price cooperation, that you run up prices. The government has almost gone to the elections – and to the extent that it is also adorned with – that it wants to be effective. Now we have heard the representatives of the government parties in the Chamber, and we heard the Council of State now: it's the opposite of the power of action. It's more investigation, it's too expensive – you bring all counter-arguments. I would like to ask the Consumer Minister, who is responsible for this: when we see the need to bring more competitive power to the consumer in the field of food, what kind of concrete alternative measures does the Consumer Minister see as a response to a food portal as an alternative to the proposals that are now on the table? So far we haven't heard anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1124	I agree with the representative of Storberget that it is important that the consumer is given good information and able to make the right choices. But as many people have been involved here, there are few actors in this particular industry, and the way to put in place a daily food portal is too unexplored, as it is today. I'm afraid that if we put in place a food portal, it will make that cost – because this is not going to be free, it's going to cost a lot of millions – that the food chains are going to develop this, are going to be put on prices, which will again affect consumers. So in general, I believe that a daily food portal will not be an advantage for consumers, but that it will actually have the opposite effect, because consumers will have to pay a higher price for the goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1133	I want to follow up a little further on the parallel that was drawn between the power portal and a daily food portal. In the electricity market, there are a number of actors – in the groceries market a few. It must be easier for Ergo to have an overview of prices within the food market, without the portal as well. Power is largely power – either a sheep from Hafslund or Light, it is the same stream a sheep. Consumer interests are about comparing not only price but also quality, and it is an important element of a daily food portal that one does not have at a power portal. So I ask again, what makes it a good idea to have a power portal, and that it will not lead to hidden price cooperation, while when one does it in the grocery market, the government believes that it will lead to price cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1138	The representative was in on it himself. In the food market, there are few actors – perhaps even fewer if Coop is to buy ICA on Thursday – in the electricity market, there are several actors. Only that in itself implies that there is less competition. The structure and competitive conditions of the groceries sector also indicate that there is a particular incentive for tacit price cooperation. In fact, competition authorities have taken into account it. The size is very busy listening to what the competition authorities say in a lot of cases, and I believe that in this case too we should listen to the competition authorities, who say very clearly that with so few large chains, which share so to speak the whole market between themselves, and the start-up costs of new players, which are relatively high, this will actually be a minus for consumers and not a plus.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1143	The food chains have enormous power and enormous resources, and they are few. They follow each other's prices. But in the argument from the government parties here, it's almost like a daily food portal will make Coop now know what the bacon cheese costs at REMA 1000. Then my question is quite simple: does not believe or believe the Council of State that e.g. Coop today has a full overview of the cost of the products at REMA?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1148	I think they have a pretty good overview of the prices that each chain has. But what this issue is about is what the establishment of a food portal costs, and what this cost will be for consumers. We agree that it may be reasonable for consumers to have – and need – information on prices, but what I would like to point out, which has also been mentioned by many, including the competition authorities, is that there is a cost, a cost that you do not know, and a cost that we are afraid of will be imposed on consumers. So it's not a plus for consumers with a daily food portal, rather the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1155	I have to say I react to the attempt to explain away from the Council of State. This may indicate that the Council of State considers that a good overview of electricity prices contributes to a higher electricity price and that an overview of what banks charge at interest contributes to a higher interest rate. It is, of course, with respect to reporting nothing but nonsense. It would have been more pure-haired if the Council of State also said that it is not a priority area for this government to strengthen consumers' rights in making safe choices when they buy food. I also react to the fact that the Council of State does not respond to the question she is being challenged by Knut Storberget, namely: What concrete steps does the Council of State take to strengthen consumer rights and ensure that they can make safe and conscious choices when buying food?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1162	The President would point out that the concept of ‘customs’ is hardly conducive to improving the debate in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1166	According to the competition authorities, the structure and competitive conditions of the groceries sector – it is said quite clearly and clearly – are such that this sector differs from other sectors, including financial services, dental services and electricity. This government is committed to ensuring good information to consumers and that it has the consumer power to which a consumer should be subject. I also record that in the case of the Consumer Council's report that was in place in the summer of 2013, the previous government did not say anything about them coming back to this immediately and would work on this, so it might not be a priority task so quickly for the previous government either. In the Consumer Council's report, it was set up for a two- to three-year development phase, and that we need more information before we put in place a daily food portal. I want consumers to have the power to have, with a desire for more information, that will ensure consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1175	It's a little hard to understand what Councillor Horne means. On the one hand, she says that you don't want a portal, because it can create higher prices for consumers. On the other hand, state councillor Horne says now that you need to figure out more to see if you want to do this. When comparisons with electricity prices and financial services are also used, my question becomes to the Council of State Horne: Does the Council of State Horne believe that the portals now established for electricity and financial services create higher prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1180	I am very happy that we have put in place the portals we have today. The portals we have will also lead to consumers having greater consumer power than they had before. That's the cross-political agreement in Stortinget that they should have. I am also very pleased that the government has expanded the portals we have. So that's how I have to deal with a majority here in Stortinget, and that's why I have said that if the Stortinget decides that we should put in place a daily food portal, I also want to come back to Stortinget and explain how the time aspect should be. Because we need more information. The Consumer Council's report in 2013 also said that we need to look at the development costs of this. What I'm concerned about is the technical solutions and the cost of such a daily food portal for the consumer. That's when the consumer will get higher prices, and it will weigh the opposite of getting price information.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1189	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1192	The approach adopted by the Business Committee deals with two proposals, both of which concern the safety of the consumer in the field of food policy. I would like to comment on the proposal on the designation of origin, which is my responsibility. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that my post on the labelling of origin of processed meat products and dairy products is designed in consultation with the Minister of Health and Care, who is responsible for the general labelling of food. Good information on the origin of the food shall be ensured for consumers. The design of Norwegian legislation in this area follows from the EU Food Information Regulation. The new rules on food labelling, which became applicable in Norwegian law from December 2014, further strengthen the principles in order to ensure a high level of protection of consumer health and interests. I am concerned with good origin marking, and I will follow up the Storting decision and look into what opportunities we have to strengthen the requirements further in Norway. I would also like to ensure that the Swedish Food Safety Authority bases Stortinget’s wish for the labelling of meat and milk as an ingredient in processed products on the basis of its input into regulatory development in the EU. I believe it is important to strike a balance between the consumer's need for information and the cost of labelling for industry and the supervisory authorities. National additional requirements could also be costly for Norwegian-produced goods compared to those produced in other EEA countries. All labelling requirements have a cost element in themselves for the trader and stricter requirements in Norway than in other countries could distort competition. We had a discussion earlier that referred to the competitive situation in the dairy market, and it was from the Stockholm pulpit that many expressed concern about it already today, without us having such a kind of legislation. As mentioned in the written reply to the Committee, it is assumed that the Food Information Regulation provides very limited possibilities to impose additional national requirements on the labelling of origin. The starting point is that the EEA Agreement obliges us to comply with EU legislation on food information, including the rules on labelling of origin. For the time being, the EU has not put in place rules requiring the labelling of processed meat products of origin. The EU Commission has examined whether the origin labelling of meat as an ingredient in processed meat products is desirable and concluded in a report of December 2013 that further labelling will cost much for the industry and will result in increased food prices. It is also clear from a consumer survey in the EU that the consumer’s support for more labelling of origin falls drastically if this leads to an increase in food prices. The Commission has therefore failed to come up with rules requiring the labelling of origin of such products. However, the signals from the EU are not quite clear in this area. On 11 February this year the European Parliament adopted a resolution asking the Commission to follow up with more legislation. However, such a request is not binding and it will show whether the Commission will comply with the request. We will, of course, follow the European Union closely in this area. As regards the origin labelling of milk as an ingredient in dairy products, a report from the EU Commission is expected to do so. We are closely following developments in the European Union on this too.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1218	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1221	It is estimated that the government is on a click in Stortinget today in perhaps one of the most important consumer areas, where a clear and distinctly multiplicity, as it now stands, wants both portal and labelling. I note that the Council of State says, of course, that we must follow up the decisions taken by the EU, where we must follow up, and that is good. But when it comes to labelling, in order to quote the Council of State in the paper, you have to ‘look at the possibilities we have’. In the decision that the Stortinget has been invited to take today, ‘the government is asked to take the initiative in improving food labelling schemes, which also require the labelling of processed meat products and dairy products’. Will the Council of State follow up this decision if it gets a majority in the Chamber today in addition to ‘seeing further what opportunities we have’?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1226	Labelling legislation in the EU is provided for in a regulation. Regulations shall be implemented under EEA law in Norwegian law as they are. Therefore, the national State has little room for individual solutions. So what we are going to do here, if any, – and I expect that the representative Storberget agrees – must be in line with the EEA legislation that Norway has committed itself to comply with. This government is also thinking about having a social profile in terms of food prices. If you go in and look at SIFO's studies, they show that you are a pre-school teacher and a lone parent for two children, you use more than 25 pst today. of the wages and salaries of the food. Supporting proposals that could lead to increased food prices, which we believe both of the proposals that are being discussed today will mean, we think, going in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1233	The Council of State represents a party that has repeatedly said that it is in favour of increased competition, as the Council of State has also stated on several occasions. Studies, both through the Food Chain and Food Law Commissions, have indicated that competition in the food market is weak. They have also identified some ways of improving the situation, including: the law on good commercial practice, for which the Council of State was responsible, and also this with a daily food portal. The government parties voted a few weeks ago against the law on good trade practices, and now they also vote against a daily food portal. What is the reason why the Government/Government does not want to deliver on improving the competitive situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1238	Now we spent a lot of time in the previous debate saying that we're coming back at a later stage with suggestions on how to improve the competitive situation in the groceries market. Of course we will. Then we're interested in food prices. We believe that many in Norway today are struggling to make ends meet, and that is why we politicians must focus on this. The two proposals under consideration here can both lead to increased food costs for ordinary people. If you look at those who count as low-wages in Norway, the Employment and Social Ministry figures from 2011 show that 350,000 Nordics are in that category. That's why we believe that without further delay adopting something that can have huge cost implications that make food for ordinary people more expensive is something we don't want to be on. But we will follow up on the proposals adopted by Stortinget – of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1246	I saw that I had to deal with the fact that when the representative Storberget specifically challenged the Council of State whether she would follow up the decision that it looks like the Stortinget is going to make today, then the answer was a coherent argument as to why this is a bad idea to do. So I ask again: will the Council of State take the initiative to improve the labelling regime for food, which also imposes requirements on the labelling of origin of processed meat products and dairy products, if the Storting accepts this today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1253	Of course, we will follow this up, but if it means breaking the agreements we have concluded with the EU, the law that we have implemented through the EU, then I expect that there are more in this room who will have a challenge with it. But of course we will take this further and see how much we can do within the law of which we are part. Then I have to say that it is quite amazing to hear the representative Pollestad, because in a previous case here he was very concerned about the competition situation for the dairy sector, for the food industry, and so here the centre party is involved in a proposal that could potentially make the competition situation of the Norwegian food industry much more difficult than it is today. We already have major challenges to compete with the EU. At least this will not contribute positively if we are to have our own requirements for Norwegian production, and of course there will also be major challenges with regard to border trade. Increased prices in Norway will lead to more journeys across.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1260	That is also the reason why the centre party in its alternative budget has cut the excise duty on the food industry. Councillor Horne criticized me earlier today for being on another planet when I said that there was little action and a lot of speech power in the government. So I wonder if the Minister of Agriculture and Food can say: What measures from the Food Chains Committee and the Food Law Committee have this government followed up, and what proposals have been made by the government on the basis of this extensive investigation work?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1267	First of all, I just have to say that I don't think that a cut in the excise duty will save the Norwegian food industry if our cost growth continues to go up in line with our own specific requirements, as opposed to what our neighbours have. That's exactly why it's so important that we have the same legislation, that we have the same starting point for the competition that we're going to be part of. As for the follow-up, we have had a round on it earlier in this room, where I have said that we will come back with a matter for Stortinget. Of course, we are now reviewing this in the government and working with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, together with the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, to find out what our recommendations for the Stortinget will be. But this is a matter that – as I said earlier – is a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1274	It may seem that the Council of State is deluding the fact that the European Parliament just nearly a month ago took a decision asking the Commission to close the very hole we are concerned with in this matter. Parliament has discovered that today's derogation provisions of EU law are so well known that there are many holes that should be closed. That's the whole background for us wanting this decision in the Storting today – to seal those holes. It has also discovered and asked the Commission to rectify it. It would have been interesting if the government would be involved in that process – be involved in shaping the EU's future legislation and participate in that process, instead of opposing the whole process and simply refuting the fact that this becomes expensive and difficult and that high prices are feared.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1281	In my post, I just pointed to the decision taken by the European Commission, so I didn't jump over it in my post. I also mentioned that we will, of course, continue to participate in the EU, and try to influence the process that is taking place there. But I think we should all take on board that the European food industry also has major challenges. We know that the situation with Russia has had major consequences for many in the food industry in the EU. Many have had to find other markets, many have problems finding other markets, and one is in a difficult situation. So for both Norway and the EU, it is about finding a balance between cost increases and what consumers can actually get — within what is responsible. I'm assuming that I bring everyone in this room that we have to find that balance in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1290	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1295	I must say that it is gratifying that there is a majority in the Business Committee behind our proposal to ensure the labelling of origin of food and to establish a food portal. Norwegian consumers are increasingly concerned about where the food comes from, and it should also be safe. Food safety and animal welfare are high in consumer awareness. In the media, we have seen a number of headlines on food production challenges in other countries, including the United Kingdom. related to antibiotic use. Antibiotic resistance is now becoming a serious threat to public health. In the new EU food information system, as referred to here in the debate, it will be mandatory to label more foods with a place of origin – and that is good. But what is worrying here is that there is no requirement to label processed meat products and dairy products. That is why we believe that an initiative must be taken here. The whole 70 pst. by those who asked in a study carried out by Norstat before the Consumer Council, it is considered that the labelling of the country of origin of meat and meat products is very important or very important. Many are concerned with improving labelling to make it easier to avoid products that may be less safe to eat. I see it as important that a daily food portal be established to ensure information for consumers, in line with the recommendations of the Food Chains Committee. The aim of such an information solution is to facilitate a better choice for individual consumers and to contribute to the strengthening of competition in the market. Transparency is important, both to ensure food safety and to strengthen sustainable and ethically sound food production. It will also promote health. We believe that it is unfortunate that content declarations today appear incomplete, and that they are difficult to read and understand for the consumer. This may also contribute to increased market access for small-scale operators who do not currently sell their products to the large food chains. This is why it is time — and almost over-mature — for information to be made available digitally. The matter has been well investigated through a wide variety of food chains, and I am therefore surprised that the government parties are not involved in demonstrating their power of action by supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1306	There has been a lot of talk about good intentions today, and good intentions are often described in a slightly decent way, but then with words that are not parliamentary good – I think of the somewhat popular description of the road to a certain place, a place where many are afraid to end up, some of us with good reason. The expression says that the road there is paved with good intentions. The proposal on the food portal has good intentions, but will – as it is now available – lead us on the wrong path. We all agree that good and accessible information is essential for consumers to make informed choices. When most people walk around with their mobile phones in their pockets and technology enables rapid distribution, it becomes fast enticing to think that an electronic portal with all conceivable information about all the groceries is of the good. But the labelling of groceries is important. There are many good processes going on around this – not only in Norway but also abroad. Coordinated cross-border cooperation would give us more good tools, instead of spending large sums on domestic new crime with very uncertain outcomes. Today’s proposal is very comprehensive – we already hear in the debate here today that new things are being pushed in before we get started – and will put on the daily food industry $10 million in the cost of mandatory ongoing reporting. The state will also get a big bill. They get a bill to start and operate the portal. The estimated total annual cost is 50-60 million. kr, and it is payable by someone. 'Some' is you and me. We're going to take the increased cost of more expensive food and increased public expenditure. What makes it even more worrying is that when all prices are to be reported in real time — all prices are to be reported in real time — it becomes very easy for industry to adapt prices to competitors in the neighbourhood. It increases the risk of price coordination and it is not necessarily at the lowest level. Throw a look at the price plates at the gas stations: there are few local differences. There's probably a reason why there's no VG stock exchange above petrol prices. There are over 5,000 shops in Norway. Hundreds of goods are priced every week. In addition, shops have campaigns such as ‘three for two’, loyalty programmes and membership benefits. Keeping the information up to date and correct will be an impossible task. Thus, this portal becomes misleading – not indicative. The origin, content declaration and warning of dangerous content are important information for the consumer and a new labelling system has been adopted and comes in 2016 – just to provide the consumer with good information on the content of the product. But it's not the government's job to tell consumers where to buy the cheapest milk. In fact, the portal will initially serve the food industry – not consumers. This will weaken, not exacerbate, competition in the groceries market and result in more expensive food.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1319	The intention of the proposal, I think, is actually good – I want to believe it. With regard to the price portal and the price of groceries, I wonder where the knowledge is taken from, considering that it is considered cheaper for the consumer. I've done a quick investigation, as probably the majority – who are in favour of such a portal – have also done. You could talk to the Norway Group, but I went a little further into the system, to my merchant, in a Menu store that's quite big. It could then be asked – as the committee has probably done – for example.: How many shops are only Menu, which is a small part of the Norway Group, but which have a large share? That's 190 stores. How many are chainsaws? About 150 is chained, and it's 40 shoppers' pages. Then I expect the Storberget and others. have examined whether the prices are the same with the buyer's website and the chainside. No, they're not. Are the prices equal among the chains? No, they're not. Is the range like among the chains? No, that's not it. There are three different categories for a product range. It's from approx. 2 000 lines, i.e. products, in the smallest grocery stores to 20 000 in the largest. When you draw the parallel to current, it's one product. Here it is about 20,000 products in one store – in the same store. And when the industry says – at least the Norwegian Group, the Competition Authority and SIFO – that a cost for consumers and shops is $30 billion, I wonder what the intention is. Nor is it the case that you can sit and see in the chain shops in Oslo – which I expect the majority of the committee has looked at and examined – or at the wholesale level what is the selling price in it and that store today. You can't do that because it's localized. When you draw this simple parallel to the current portal, I don't get it. It goes without saying that there has to be a significant increase in the cost to the consumer. It has to be. There is not one power-priced product – there are 20,000 lines, products, in one and the same store. That's one of the approx. The 4,000 stores, relative to the number I have. When Storberget says that it is a big day for consumers, I agree with the jam, but it is not a positive sign, because it is becoming more expensive goods if the state is to impose price information that makes it more expensive for the consumer. Then I am glad that it is this government that sits – not the red-green.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1336	On behalf of the case rapporteur for Document 8:82 S for 2013–2014, Hege Haukeland Liadal, I would like to thank the Committee for a very good job. It is currently difficult for a consumer to identify the products to be purchased, both in terms of prices, product information, quality and environmental friendliness – or in terms of origin, as the proposers say. When they promote the proposal on the daily food portal that we have now discussed and considered, it actually means easier access for consumers to check all of this. A food portal will make it easier to get in touch with the large market that exists, where a person can apply and find out if a product is wanted. It also believes that many of the leading food chains in Norway. They say that this is a good idea, and that the information requested in such a portal is already available to the industry today. They see each other's prices and samples every day to adjust. And if it's competitively promoting or inhibiting, it's already going on today. But consumers can't look. They can't see if there's any competition they can be in. That's what we want to do. In Denmark they have come further. There, a consumer can access an Internet-based information channel and check it out. In particular, it is the young who are concerned about this and use it the most. That's often the case with new things. But it tells us that the need is present and that it is what future consumers want. Having sufficient and good knowledge confers consumer power. It makes it possible to make the right choices, and it is important to have good and necessary information to compare. Today, there is a distorted relationship of power, where the rules of the daily food industry apply. It'll change a portal. The scepticism we have heard here from the right and from the Progress Party, that this means more rules, that it will be difficult, can be refuted when we see what the Finansportalen or the Tannlegeportalen have done and succeeded in. The next thing is to set up a new portal. Councillor Horne mentioned the current portal. Yes, the food portal is the next natural. It is important to see this in the context of the action plan on a non-toxic everyday life, and that this portal can also help to avoid buying toxic goods. Joint Nordic cooperation is important. We have a large single market. In this area, too, I would like to stress that we should look at what we can do together. Common databases, the use of existing technology and experience are important, as the Right Party also says in its comment. But I am calling for the power of action that the government boasts. Is it paralysis, exodus, and brother - in - law research that are the reasons why they do not want a daily food portal, or are there other things?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1354	This matter is about one thing, and that is that the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to make it easier for Norwegian consumers to make informed choices and trade safe food. It's also about the government parties in Stortinget, consisting of the Right Party and the Advance Party, fighting back and trying to explain their resistance to the fact that this is difficult, that this becomes expensive, and that this is practically impossible. It is obvious that the Progress Party and the Right, who otherwise speak in fine words and speeches about more competition, is on the wrong side in this case. When Norwegian consumers go to the store, they want to have the opportunity to brief themselves and see the origin of the food they buy. It shows surveys, and we still see examples in the media that people react when the system fails. This is aimed at trying to do something in a new and better EU legislation, but it has many obvious gaps. I find it strange that processed meat, at the moment when something is added, salt or additives, is to be exempted from the legislation on the labelling of origin. I find it strange that the Right Party and the Advance Party join it, and I will once again point out that the European Parliament has discovered this hole and believe that there is a weakness in the legislation. They have asked the Commission to rectify this and to strengthen consumer rights. I record that the Minister of Agriculture and Food says that this is something that has been perceived in the department as well and will take into account in his further work, but I would like a somewhat more proactive approach to the problem. There are many good examples in Norway of operators in the industry who provide good consumer information and who indicate the origin of their products. At my own home, Ytterøyling has given you the opportunity to go in and see pictures of the farm to the individual farmer. Yesterday I visited Brattlia Ecogård, where at least there is no doubt about origin marking, and I think these manufacturers will be the ones who win the competition for consumer attention in the future. When I hear the rhetoric of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Representatives in this Chamber, I have to challenge the two Councils present, about the rhetoric where it is just pointed out how bad and difficult and expensive this is, that means that the matter should be trained. The representative Morten Stordalen concluded his speech by saying that he is pleased that it is not the red-green, but the Right Party and the Advance Party that have the power. Does this mean that they have to stop the whole process?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1367	This has indeed been a strange debate, and it shows that we have two widely differing views on how to promote effective competition. There are, as one previous speaker said, many channels today that provide information. They certainly provide useful information for those involved, but here we are talking about a state-made channel – a portal. When comparing price portals for electricity and interest rates with a daily food portal, I have to say that it is impossible to understand how much more complex the daily food market is. With regard to the power price portal or the Finansportalen, we have the situation that there are many actors about a product that is reasonably homogeneous. On the food side, we have the exact opposite, where we have three–four actors on products that are very heterogeneous, which stand out in many areas, and a price portal is so incredibly much more complicated to build for it. I have to say that this calls for action and jumps on a proposal that you do not know the cost of, I find almost remarkable. This with product information must be done in international cooperation, otherwise we are terribly easy on a purely protectionist trail. Product information is something imposed on manufacturers today, and it may be a good sales argument. But I dare say that in the case of these portals, the small producers will be harmed because they do not have the tools to keep up with development – it will benefit the big ones – and the small ones we already have too few of them. I can repeat that the intentions are good. But it's the way, as Eidem Løvaas was, that the way to a certain place was actually paved with good intentions. I would like to repeat that a large majority of people are hoping that here we will build something without having an overview of the costs, without having an overview of the consequences, and despite the advice of the Competition Authority, which is that they warn against this – the Competition Authority is actually our professional body for how to build competition – I find it quite remarkable. And that is at least a very good argument for the Minister of Industry that we need an independent body to assess the decisions of the Competition Authority. Here the Storting shows that you really don't fully understand the challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1378	The debate is interesting, and the arguments change through the debate. In his previous post, the representative, Gundersen, was concerned that it was too complicated to create a portal for groceries. Now there are other arguments that apply. When the representative Morten Stordalen explains his position that he has visited up to several shops to check how this is related, I think we should listen, because it is true that the Consumer Council and other public bodies actually have the same knowledge of the various issues that are being presented here, which you get by a little visit to the local store. However, it was the intervention of the representative Kårstein Eidem Løvaas that prompted me to speak, for Eidem Løvaas expressed considerable concern about the additional costs for consumers by establishing such a daily food portal. I want to challenge Eidem Løvaas to respond to where he was when the plastic bag charge was introduced. It will probably impose considerably more costs on consumers than he suggests that such a daily food portal will cost. So where was Eidem Løvaas when the plastic bag tax was introduced, and what care did he show for consumers?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1387	The debate is approaching the end. There are some of us – and quite seriously, quite clearly, a large majority – who have a somewhat different opinion than the government parties are now quite aggressive and polemic in fighting against. I think you should respect that. I was a little curious when State Councillor Listhaug last summer with bragging and bram went out and told us that the avocado she had seen in the store was too expensive. I'm not going to go into whether the avocado is for animals, but I actually had expectations of the government when it went out so close to the food chains and strongly pointed out the need for more competition. You also took a trip to London to see what kind of tools you have in England, to be able to do something in this area. I had expected this debate to have clarified to a greater extent than just being pure polemics against our proposal, which probably gets a majority, and that alternative measures were actually put on the table. Like what has been investigated over many years in Norway and the proposals that have come – whether it is law of good trade, food labelling or food portal – have been added to it. I've been curious in the last few months if you really wanted to use the credo that you have, that it's a government with power of action. You're in your second year, you have a lot of investigations, and so far in the food sector, we haven't seen anything. I think that's nice. I think that gives the government a certain burden of proof in addition to what has been shown here in the Chamber against the proposals that are actually on the table. Once again, I have to say that if this is the case – and it is very likely – then a large number of people decide what is on our tables today, it has to be a different follow-up to it than just to see if this can be possible. A minority government would live very dangerously if it were to take into account the considerations expressed by Gunnar Gundersen's representative in his last statement, that it is also here, among the majority of the Storting, just as he says about the population, that there is something they don't quite understand, to quote Gunnar Gundersen. It's a dangerous strategy. A minority government doesn't live long if it starts operating according to those living rules. The decisions on the table – whether they have a majority – require the government to turn around quite quickly. There are deadlines in these decisions, and I believe that there is a good basis, among other things. through the investigations received, but also through the work done by the Consumer Council, to implement what is the will of the Storting. It's the government's duty.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1396	The debate is coming to an end, and I would like to add some comments to what has been said. The proposer, the representative of Farstad from the Left, knows what the portal should be, he knows how to create it, and he knows when to launch it, but then we hear in the debate that several elements are already being pushed into it – which may illustrate a bit of the challenge. As he said, it wouldn't have been nice, for example. there was an app that could tell about allergens in food. There's a lot of it, so there's already a lot of information available. The Labour Party representative Storberget was concerned that he believed that the gospel of the Right was free competition, and he thought it was strange when we wanted to go against this. As we see it, this will weaken competition, not exacerbate competition. I think it is also the Workers' Party gospel that prevails here, namely orders, reporting and control. The representative of the centre party Pollestad said he hopes this portal will be a portal for content and not for price. Then I think maybe you underestimate people's choices and patterns of action. I don't think people necessarily travel in large quantities to Sweden because the content of the groceries there is better than the content of the groceries in the shops on the Norwegian side of the border. So the plastic bag fee and the representative Aasrud. First, there are a lot of shops that have chosen to live on the plastic bag, but second, there is a big difference – and I assessed whether I should comment on it at all: the plastic bag can be chosen away, you have to have food. Through several representatives, the Workers' Party and the Centre have underlined that a portal is a portal. I get a bit of thinking about the advertisement «I guess so. Yellow cheese is yellow cheese!’ It’s not that. This portal is completely different. Reporting is different, markets are different, the structure of suppliers is different, the communication is out until consumers are different and consumer behaviour is different. To get Sweden back: you do not go to Sweden to open an account or to buy electricity. Then we are suddenly introduced from the Center Party for Quality as a parameter in the portal. Is it, then, that the authorities should start giving grades to the various daily items? It would have been interesting to hear a little bit more about it. So we're getting more and more involved in this portal. And as I said instead, the Green Party got the impression that I wanted to bring everything from the very smallest store and the manufacturer all the way up to the big chains. It sounds like, if we go on with this, we're about to create a portal that becomes a daily food portal, but that has so much content that it becomes a small sample portal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1413	So the government will follow the decisions made in this room, and it's not like we want to train them. As far as the EU is concerned, it's about being involved in the processes that go there, and constantly trying to lie as much as possible in front of them, and that's something that this government has really taken on after we came to power. So it's important for us to stress the challenges that we've been discussing here today. It's often the case that some good intentions can beat other good intentions, and I've been involved in several things; the first is the competitive situation in the food industry. If we were to be allowed to develop our own legislation, and we chose to do so, then we would have put the Norwegian food industry in a very difficult situation in terms of competition against abroad, both because of special rules and because of border trade. Of course, all the measures we adopt that increase costs, which increase prices, provide a greater willingness to cross borders and trade, and we know that it was over 13 billion. kr used in Sweden in the last year. The second is that a sharp increase in food prices is unsocial. It might be a little easy to forget what it's like to be low-paid when we're in this room -- everyone in this room is doing pretty well -- but many people are struggling to make ends meet, and many people feel that food prices are one of the things that makes them have a difficult economic everyday life. And then I believe that we also have obligations to have an eye and a heart for them in the policy we are pursuing. With regard to the avocado debate that was going on here, I believe that the discussion that started after the holiday was very good, because it put the competitive situation in the grocery market on the agenda, and it has also led to a sustained competitive price. We have also seen that in months that followed that debate. Then this government will come back to the question of law of good trade. We will also come back to the question of what other steps can be taken to improve competition in the food market, but we need some more time to get allowed to do so, and we also had a discussion about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1428	Rigmor Aasrud was a little visitor to something I should have said: She was impressed that Stordalen had visited his local store, which I had not done, but I had called the Norwegian Group, and I had called this store. It is clearly wrong that a deposit representative acquires information and knowledge. That's special. The representative Arild Grande wondered if the Right and Advance Party would train – that they would not have such a portal. No, but we are engaged in competition to get the best possible price for the customer, the best possible quality, and you do not get that when the industry itself says that it is going to be several times more expensive also for the customer. That is why we think a price portal is wrong to introduce. Product information is readily available to wholesalers today; there is something else that you should be able to look at, but a price portal is not possible without introducing expensive systems where someone is going to send the prices into a portal weekly or every day, which is what is being discussed will be very costly. It is estimated that the cost can be approx. Half a billion dollars in total, which you'll lose in the industry, which is going to go out on the customer again. I just have to repeat what I said earlier today. Today is a great day, it was said. I think it is a rather sad day, as customers will get increased costs. Today, the Right Party and the Advance Party stand with the consumer because we want the lowest price and the best quality possible. That's what this is about. Competition is, to a large extent, already between the shops, internally in the chains as well – internally in the same store chains – no matter what name they have. I think we can do a lot more that contributes to better competition than to introduce a government price portal that simplifies costs to the customer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1437	I take the floor to express a wish for a little more respect for what seems to be a majority decision today. We have had a long debate. It has been used as a ‘monthly landing’, it is said that the poor have to pay the price, and it has been used as an expression that the bulk of the population here hangs on a proposal. It is said that the chains do not want it, but at the same time it is claimed that the chains will benefit from it because it can facilitate price cooperation. Let me make it clear: I think the parties behind this – in the Central Party, we have discussed this and thought well about it – have seen it as an advantage for consumers. But that is the way it is – and you can notice the upcoming issues that may come from representatives’ proposals – that it is possible to request a hearing if you believe that a case should be better clarified than what one clearly believes it is. It is in this way that the State Councils can give more thorough and complementary answers to the Committee on the proposals being made. Because we have to be able to relate to the decision-making basis that we have and that the ministry also contributes to, is the best available decision-making basis available. So now I expect the decision, when it is made, to be followed up with the greatest zeal, that one gets this in place, and that one does not look blindly at the issues, as one has done in the debate today, but seeks to find solutions for the benefit of consumers. I think the matter will be served. And let me make it clear: it is definitely more demanding to land on the moon than it is to establish a daily portal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1444	I just have a brief comment at the end of the debate. I invited the representatives of the Right and Advance Party to say something about whether one intends to implement this matter and the will of the Storting, or whether one will train the matter. All the representatives from the two parties who have been up here have only confirmed my fear that this matter will be trained. Gunnar Gundersen has repeated how difficult and complex this is. Kårstein Eidem Løvaas has said that it inhibits competition. Morten Stordalen has said that it is almost impossible and at least very costly. So it seems that, despite all the good intentions of Sylvi Listhaug, we want to follow the process and consider measures, at least we don't get any drag from the Right and Advance Party on the Stortinget. Several of the representatives of these two parties have spoken from this pulpit in almost touching terms about how concerned they are with the price of consumers. We believe that a portal, a better overview and a better marking of origin could contribute to increased competition and to pushing prices downwards. There are only two things recently that have contributed to the fear of increased prices in the store. One is the plastic bag charge to the government, the other is the government’s proposal to open up Sunday-open shops, which the entire industry has announced will also help to push up prices – so that you can manage to maintain profitability at all. If you had been honest and sincerely involved in reducing the price for consumers, you might want to take a closer look at your own policy and not try to train a case that is so strongly expressed by Stortinget, when we take the decision that we are making. In the end: Norwegian consumers can at least notice that the Stortinget now decides to want better designation of origin and a portal of this kind, and to the extent that it takes time to implement this, it is appropriate to address the government parties and to ask for further progress in this work in order to follow up the will of the Stortinget – and the majority of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1457	For Arild Grande's information, please note that REMA 1000 goes in for Sunday open shops. But I'll leave that case. Questions have been asked about the government will follow up this decision adopted today by the Stortinget. Let it be clear that the government is dealing with the majority in the Storting and that decisions of the Storing must be fulfilled as best as possible. However, it must be possible for both the government and the government parties to express concern about such a decision by the Storting today. As I also said in my speech, one of the main points in the matter is that there is considerable uncertainty about the value of the benefits for consumers, the impact on society as a whole, but not least the overall cost of this decision. In the 2013 Consumer Council investigation, a development cost — a one-off cost — was estimated for the public, for the state, of 7 million. NOK 6 million and operating costs. kr in the year – then it has been cut down to a minimum. With regard to the costs that a portal will entail for the food industry, i.e. the retail chain, no final calculations have yet been made, but the Ministry informed the Consumer Council that a socio-economic analysis of that measure was carried out, and the additional costs for the chains were estimated at 480 million. kr – based on the value of the krona in 2013. So this is a cost that will come to consumers. As I have said, I believe that the investigation, the report that is available from 2013, does not provide sufficient grounds for directly initiating the development project, and one of the issues that arises is how actors can also be required to report all the data that this is about. I must therefore come back to the Stortinge on how this should be followed up in concrete terms, and at the latest in the budget proposal for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1472	In the wake of a long debate with two committees, I think it is natural as case rapporteur to say that what has at least been heard by the Christian People's Party in this matter is that the government wants to take on board what the Stortinge will adopt today: a proposal on the origin marking of processed food and the creation of a daily food portal, and that this will happen by 2016. So it's the Left and Christian People's Party that creates a majority in this case, together with the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV. It is a responsibility that the Left and Christian People's Party assumes: to be impatient with today's government and to ensure that the decision of the Storting is followed up today, so that we can manage the time perspective that the Storting has put on the table. Then it is quite right, as the Council of State Horne says, that you should be able to raise concerns and counter-arguments in the main hall and in the debate. But when today is over and the decision is made, it is to deliver. In the 2016 state budget, it is well late to come back to Stortinget with this matter. I will ask the Council of State Horne to come back to the revised budget in May. It's a much better date.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1482	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1496	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1501	It is not a good day or a great day for Norwegian sport when we know that it has started a lawsuit against players from both Follo and Asker about fighting fixation. Now these players aren't convicted, but at least there's a lawsuit going on. So red card for combat fixation is a clear message from Stortinget. These are the ones that determine the outcome of battles and events during the fight. They bet unmistakable results with high odds. They win a lot of money because they know what's going to happen. We as innocent sports fans, who bring in tipspeckong, are the ones who are the losers. Is this okay? No, it's not. This we must and will live, we in Stortinget. Fighting is devastating for sport and is, in addition, the theft from the innocent players. This has to be hard to deal with, and that's something we all agree on. That is why I am pleased that this government, with the support of the whole of the Great Britain, is taking this on board. In order to strengthen efforts to combat fixation and manipulation, the proposers believe that there is a need for a national unit that can contribute to knowledge and monitoring and that can make it easy to report in case of suspicion and enquiry. The proposers also believe that there should be a split layer between Norsk Tipping, the Lottery Authority and the authorities. The government is asking the government to set up a national unit against combat fixation and manipulation, and that is where the government delivers. There's a supergroup set up to work on taking combat fixers in this country. The Committee also agrees that combat fixation and manipulation are a serious threat to sport, and believes that it is important to strike hard, which I have been to before. I will then refer to a hearing note that we have received from the Sports Association on a matter we have had in the past to repeal the law prohibiting professional boxing. There are claims that there is organized crime, doping and combat fixation in professional boxing. It is also pointed out that it is well known from the media that doping and fighting fixation are closely related to environments associated with organised crime. Isn't it a little naive of the Sports Association just to point to boxing? Isn't it being very navigable when the only thing that they mention within this area is professional boxing? This information was unknown to the majority of the committee, and we find it strange that the Sports Association has not provided this information before, when we see such a clear link between doping, fighting fixation and crime. Knowing that there is at least doping and fighting fixation in Norwegian sport means that we have another challenge here. Kampfiksing and doping are also well known within other branches of Norwegian sport. The Committee is also pleased that Norway is one of the countries that have recently signed the Council of Europe Convention on this particular problem. There is a real willingness to do something about this important area and to use the control mechanisms available in organised sport. There's a commitment to sport. But we shouldn't be naive, and we shouldn't hit our chests and think that this is going the way without us putting a lot into it. It's time to see combat fixation for what it really is, namely theft, and then treat it. I think the basements have to be taken. It is therefore important to follow along and give red cards for combat fixation. It is now, as I said, set up a super-group to look at this in cooperation with the Norwegian Football Federation, the Norwegian Sports Association, the Lottery Authority, Norsk Tipping and Norwegian Travel. This should therefore be in safe hands, and there are great expectations – that is the signal from Stortinget – of these organisations and this supergroup. This problem must be put to work so that it will soon be a fairy tale only in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1529	Crime in sport is a growing international problem. That's why it also affects us nationally. Today's trial unfortunately reminds us of it. When Stortinget had combat fixation on the agenda on 8 May last year, my impression was that the phenomenon was not very well known, but that it was covered with significant cross-political interest. The Norwegian Sports Association had, a few weeks earlier, put the theme of combat fixation on the agenda, and at that seminar, knowledge was shared from both international expertise and Norwegian solo athletes who had been exposed to the phenomenon. At a seminar during the World Cup in Falun last week, the theme was on the agenda again. It's good that the theme is being discussed, because it goes without saying that it's totally destructive to the sport of medal distribution before different forms of championship start, as claimed in the Asian games a few years ago. Kampfiksing is of several described as a greater problem than doping, and that was the reason for my interpellation ten months ago. That was also the reason for my question about whether the Council of States might consider establishing an independent body in Norway, as we have established an independent anti-doping body, and in turn the background to the proposal for a national unit against anti-terrorism and manipulation, which was promoted back to 20 June 2014. In its assessment of our proposal, the Council of State confirmed on 10 October last year that she and the government wanted to follow up the action plan of the Stoltenberg Government against fighting fixation, and that on behalf of Norway she has signed a convention at the Council of Europe Conference of Ministers of Sport. That's good. A measure proposed in the Convention is the establishment of a national platform. The Council of State briefs in its letter of reply that such a national platform was at the discretion of the Ministry of Culture and funded by means of sporting instruments. We had thought that something might have happened in connection with the state budget that was submitted for 2015, but that did not happen. During the six months since the State Council wrote its letter of reply on 10 October, we have registered the following press releases: «Whitewashed poker win in the fighting fixation case» – Dagbladet October 20. ‘Football agent scared to silence about fighting fixation’ – NRK 21 October. ‘eight persons arrested for fixing the Elfsborg Grand Prix’ – Dagbladet 24 October. «Batch fights – friends old and won» – Dagbladet 9 December. «Matchfixing hits the whole of Denmark», writes Berlingske on 25 January, pointing out that both handball and ice hockey are involved, that two Danish badminton players were offered money to fix matches, and that a tennis player was offered NOK 30 000 to lose a set. And on February 10th this year, the Nettavisen writes: «Two football judges attacked for fighting fixation» in Sweden. So there's a lot going on here. And Norway was a long way ahead. We are preparing an action plan early. In this way, I wish we could still say that we were in the front line, but Denmark submitted a bill to criminalise corruption in sports on 26 January of this year, and so we have not done so much. It is therefore good that the Council of State now, through the VG, announces that she will inform the Storting that she is starting work on moving forward with a national platform. That's why I want to be positive and challenge the council to tell what she's going to do, and give answers to what kind of platform it's now she's starting a job with. There must be something quite different from the cooperation forum set up by the Lottery Authority early in 2012 and which has met continuously, involving both police and other public authorities. How do you intend to take care of the individual in such a work? What should the economy be – and not least the principle of adding tasks to supervision and not to a more operational body, as we are used to using directorates and others to promote activity? So I look forward to the Council of State presentation and will wait to take up my proposal until I have heard what the Council of State says today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1564	This is one thing that we would like to vote in favour of was not relevant. Fighting and manipulation are words that clearly describe events a society that ours will not be associated with, and are not erased in connection with all the positive experiences, activities, the community and the positive participation sport stands for at all levels. I would like to thank the case rapporteur for the job that has been done, good work, clear posts, and I stand up with the case rapporteur and keep up the red card. We don't want this! But we have learned that it is necessary to work on this. Stories continue to emerge in which Norwegian sport is involved in foreign gambling, and today, as others have mentioned, unfortunately, a comprehensive court case relating to Norwegian football starts with combat fixation as a starting point. We have to take this seriously. I am pleased that there seems to be full agreement on taking responsibility for preventing and detecting such activities. Absolute zero tolerance must be flagged high, and follow-up with action and action is therefore essential. It is very good that Norway was the first country to ratify the Council of Europe Convention signed in 2014 by 15 countries. It shows an active and offensive attitude to the challenges. We are also pleased that the government has followed up both with the Cooperation Council and not least by concluding on the issues of where a national unit can best be established. It will be exciting to follow the establishment of the unit in order to put in place the right skills and to see what this will reveal by the scale and nature of the challenges. I see that this is well followed up by the Council of State, and I am sure that such a unit will also be followed closely in the continuation. I think we also have to work on this along several paths. Attitude-building work, both among children and young people and not least in environments that may be exposed to opportunities and offers, will be an important contribution. Many parts of the sport have already taken this seriously, and should be commended for it, and other parts must be included. I hope and believe that the further work of a national unit can also contribute to increasing the knowledge of accumulation and government, so that we can do in a good way the necessary political action to overcome fighting fixation and manipulation in sport. Then we're in and we're holding up the red card.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1579	The Christian People's Party would like to thank the proposers for focusing their attention on an important and serious matter. All manipulation in sports competitions, whether it's doping or fighting fixation, within all sports are unacceptable. This is destructive to sport. It is good that Norway, as one of 15 countries, has signed the Council of Europe Convention against Combating Fighting. It is good that Norway, as the first country, has ratified the same convention. It is also good that the Council of State in its reply to the Committee confirms that the government has a high international and national commitment to fighting fixation. Today's debate is largely about the pace, impatience, because stronger structures are urgently needed. The Christian People's Party believes it must be seized now, and we assume that the government is taking the signal of our great impatience today. The Christian People's Party will vote for the committee's recommendation, assuming that the government quickly establishes strong structures for the fight against combat fixation and manipulation, stressing that this is urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1588	Let me first thank the proposers for promoting this proposal for a representative. The central party shares the concerns and impatience of the proposers and the Committee and agrees with the need to further specify the follow-up to the action plan against fighting fixation with new measures. It has been less than a year since the Stortinget last debated fighting fixation in sport, and unfortunately in the last few months the media appeals show that the theme is still most topical, both internationally and at home, not least in view of the legal case that started today. It has also been shown earlier here to fresh revelations in Sweden where it is stated that the case has differences with other countries, and I think it has all gone up for us too seriously that fighting fixation and manipulation of results is a current problem here to countries as well. It is therefore imperative that we take the necessary political steps to curb and expose this type of crime. I think it is good that the Council of State has today set up its own group to work on this, and I am eager to get a statement on this and the further follow-up of this. The revelations of combat fixation in international sport by the latter give insight into a vast underworld. As we know, seven people were accused of gross corruption in connection with a fight fixation case in Norwegian football in the fall. Without going into a case that started in the legal system today, this underlines that Norwegian sport is not immune to criminal attempts to infiltrate sport. As referred to in the representative proposal, fighting fixation is now considered to be a problem in line with doping and other crime. It casts dark shadows into Norwegian sport and threatens to undermine the basic values of sport. Until now, there is in particular the football that has been the subject of suspicions, but as several have mentioned, there is no reason to believe otherwise than that other sports are also exposed. Another serious consequence if combat fixation gets a foothold is that the legal gambling business is hit, for whom is it interested in betting money on Norsk Tipping if the matches are decided through agreed games and not through skills? The consequence will be that not only do top clubs suffer; it will also hit the ground under the financing of the horizontal and the financing of installations through the funds. And as serious as fighting fixation rockes the integrity and reputation of sport, the fact is that fighting fixation involves a huge fraud industry where criminals have thrown their eyes on sports like a arena to make money and do money laundering. Through the media, we get a picture of a hard-boiled environment that attracts large sums of money and threatens gross represals. This is obviously not something sport can handle on its own, and if sport does a good job through schooling and awareness-raising, it is sad that some will be tempted. Sigmund Loland, professor of the philosophy of sport at Norway's sports school, described it in a chronicle in the Evening Magazine last year: ‘Kampfixing is corruption and fraud in the system.’ In total, this is about gross crime. As has been stressed in the previous debate on combat fixation, it is necessary to attack the rest of the world from several teams – one thing is to provide a sufficient piece of legislation and that gaming companies such as Norwegian Typing continuously monitor the players. In addition, keeping up-to-date and monitoring the situation is a challenge for both sport and responsible authorities. In particular, it is a challenge to ensure that those exposed to pressure and serious threats – such as practitioners, judges or other actors – have a place to turn where one can feel secure and get competent advice. One depends on getting tips and getting people to stand up with their suspicions. A low threshold through a separate device that can contribute to the systematisation of information can be a key to deterring conflict fixing and manipulation of results. Spring is in an adjournment, and if not many weeks, those who are interested in football can once again rejoice over the kick-off for a new season. It is the responsibility of national authorities to provide the necessary measures, so that Norwegian sport should not be an easy trade for criminals, but that we can still enjoy sports results based on skills and not financial gain.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1617	The proposal to establish a private unit against combat fixation and manipulation is a good and appropriate proposal, and it raises an important debate about what I would call a poison for sport – trying to systematically manipulate or break down what is at the heart of the sport, simply fair competition for being the best. I think, as several speakers have spoken in the debate before, that we have to assume that this will continue to be a major challenge in sport, because there are two fundamental ideas that are particularly challenged. One thing is, where, of course, there's a lot to gain from being the best, there can be a way for manipulation of different kinds – at one end doping, at the other end manipulation of results. But not least where there is great financial gain in the form of games on sports, fighting fixation can be topical and something to pick up. And it will continue to be there: a lot of us like to play, and that's why it's going to be systematically working against it too – as several speakers have been in it – to work for the core values of sport to pass. So SV is going to vote in favour of the Labour Party proposal that is in the configuration, but I want to add that I perceive that the Council of State – and the Government – has an involvement in this area. I also see the way she's met this, which I think is a way to lighten up praise from here. So we believe that this is a question of working across politics and across the board in Norway, and we believe that the government and the Council of State will continue to increase their attention to this. Although this proposal is not accepted, we look forward to how it will be followed up once a group has been set up to work on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1626	The President noted that the proposal had not yet been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1629	Sport is a source of joy and profit both physically and mentally, even when we as spectators feel the joy of sports. It has confirmed not least the last weeks of the World Cup in Falun. The good competition in which everyone participates on equal terms is essential for the promotion of the spirit of sport. Respect for opponents and agreement on common rules and values are important and good lessons that both children and adults take with them in other arenas of life. Fighting doesn't belong at all in this, but is a threat to the values of sport, integrity and reputation, in line with doping. In July last year, the Council of Europe adopted a new Convention on the manipulation of sport competitions — combat fixation. The aim is to strengthen the possibilities of preventing, detecting, but also sanctioning such manipulation. National and international coordination between public authorities, gaming companies and sport shall be strengthened. At the European Minister of Sports meeting last September, I signed the new Convention for Norway as one of 15 countries. And December 9th, Norway became the first country to ratify the Convention. It also hears that the Convention has not yet entered into force. Ensuring a good follow-up to the Convention is a high priority. This is why the Ministry of Culture and the Council of Europe are organising an international seminar in Norway between 17 and 18. of March. There we will ask key questions in the fight against fighting fixation: how will we coordinate work between public authorities? How are we to ensure an effective exchange of information between gambling companies, sports organisations and public authorities, both nationally and internationally? The Convention requires all parties to establish each of their national platforms in the fight against the manipulation of sporting competitions. When we set up a national platform in Norway, there are two key considerations to be taken into account. Firstly, it must take care of what Norway has undertaken to do in the Convention. Secondly, our need for enhanced information exchange and coordination between stakeholders in Norway should be properly addressed. In this case, the Ministry of Culture has had a close and good dialogue with our partners in the national cooperation forum against fighting fixation. In addition to Norsk Tipping and the Lottery and Foundations, both the Sports Association, the Football Association, Kripos, Norsk Rikstototo and the Travgesellschaft are represented there. We have discussed the tasks to be performed and the competence requirements to be set. Based on these discussions, the Ministry of Culture has now decided that such a national platform – or entity – will be established in Norway at the Board of Lotteries and Foundations. Lotteries and foundations are all an important partner in the national cooperation forum against fighting fixation. By placing responsibilities right there, they will be able to take advantage of their significant expertise in this area while ensuring a good link between work at national level and, in particular, towards the partners. Targeted prevention measures against the manipulation of sports competitions require knowledge of the challenges we face. The national platform shall provide sound threat assessments that stakeholders may use in their prevention activities. It shall also be able to make recommendations for concrete knowledge-based actions. In addition, the national platform shall, through information gathering, analysis and dissemination of information, help to avert and also detect specific cases of manipulation of sports competitions in Norway. The Ministry of Culture is now working to design the concrete details of the establishment of a national platform. We do this in close dialogue with the Lottery and the Foundation. For the government, it is important that Norway performs its fight-fixing work in a good and effective way. We will therefore ensure the necessary financial resources for this work through the means of sport. It is my opinion that the national platform will take care of the considerations underlying the proposal for a representative. Through broad cooperation with enhanced information and knowledge development both nationally and internationally, we will provide the basis for more targeted action, so that all parties can carry out their tasks effectively and be more fully equipped to combat fighting fixation. I feel confident that there is no major disagreement about the goal, and then it is also important that we work together to be sure that we are able to do what is possible to prevent us from getting a negative development in the years that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1662	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1665	I thank the Council of State for the information about what is going to be a national platform. But it's a little difficult for me to figure out what's the difference between the cooperation forum that's set up today and what's the national platform. Those are the same actors who are already there. The purpose of the platform is the exchange of information and the sharing of competences, the Forum is led by the Lottery Authority, so that if the Council of State could say something more about the difference between the current situation and what is now proposed. And the other thing that I want to use the opportunity to get the Council of State to say something more about, that I didn't hear, was said some thing about in her post: how do you think to take care of the practitioners who are affected by combat fixation, who will be standing in a rather special situation until the cases are settled?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1672	First of all, as I said, it's so that this national platform gets a lot of work done. There is a need for coordination – even if the PCF is going to pass, it is very important that we also get people to coordinate this work. They shall obtain information relevant to the fight against the manipulation of sports competitions, analyse the information received, and also communicate the relevant information to the organisations concerned, in order to mention some of the many tasks that this national unit needs to perform. I imagine that there will be a secretariat, that there will be some people employed who will be responsible for coordinating and directing this important work in the future. However, it is important to link this to the coordinating role of the national unit in relation to the PCF, as many different entities have different tasks to perform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1677	I registered that the Council of State did not respond to it about single practitioners, but it may give her the opportunity to answer in connection with this question. But for the funding of such a body: this is a social problem, and I would like to think of the reasons of the Council of State that only the games go for sports purposes, which are to be used to cover the costs of a unit like that. It is not the sport that causes these problems to arise; there are quite other groups in society that make sure that combat fixation takes place. So why isn't this a responsibility where you also take the money of the big society, and not of the sport's share of the games?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1684	The costs of setting up such a national unit seem to us to be reasonably covered by the means of sport. We know that in the case of anti-doping, there are also costs that are covered by the games today, although there are different other social actors who also have a responsibility to follow up when there are concrete things being revealed. I believe that the fight against the manipulation of sports competitions forms an important part of state sports policy, and therefore I believe that it is natural that we use the means to secure the financial framework for a national platform in the future. Then the various other actors in this forum have the responsibility to join in following up, and I noticed in particular that it was said in the Aasrud post earlier that there are some other countries that have already followed up with legislation. It is also done in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1689	My last question to the Minister of Culture is about the position that has been presented here today, where the government parties are attacking Norway's sports federation for having opinions about fighting fixation related to boxing. My question to the Minister for Sport is this: Does the Minister for Sport agree with that attack, and how will we now ensure that the unorganized sport, that is, the sport that is not part of Norway's sports federation, such as sport? Is it not the same rules and the same preventive work and the same amount of funding as we see in the proposal to which the Council of State refers?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1694	Fighting has become a growing problem in international sport — we have seen an increase in recent years — and most of the known cases are related to football. But then there are also some cases registered within other types of sportsmen, both individual sportsmen and sportsmen, and combat fixation is not a challenge that is specifically linked to professional boxing. So I think it's important, at least on the part of the government, that it has a high priority to strengthen the work against the manipulation of sports competitions. That's why it's so important to establish this unit and work closely at an international level.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1699	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1715	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1722	By the People's Library Act, all municipalities in the country are required to have a public library offer for their inhabitants. In order to ensure this and to ensure that libraries are able to deliver digital products to their users – customers or residents – during the coming period, proposers believe that a five-year national library promise consisting of five parts is very important. I have the impression that there is a touching future for libraries and public libraries in Norway. The Committee agrees to present the following proposals: ‘The government asks that the notified library strategy include measures to promote libraries as meeting places for debate and public discussion arenas for cultural experiences and learning e-book lending in all libraries strengthening the purchasing system for literature in order to ensure breadth of voice with particular emphasis on children and young people strengthening cooperation between public libraries and schools’. We see that some libraries and school libraries suffer from the strong public library in the municipality, but some municipalities have successfully merged the public library and the school library. The size must ensure the provision of municipalities is imposed by the Public Library Act and ensure that the libraries are able to deliver digital products to their users in the time to come. The Committee agrees that libraries are very important because they make knowledge, culture, literature and values available to all groups in society, regardless of social, economic and geographical divisions. People's libraries are important low-threshold facilities such as cultural arenas, can be an integration arena and have an impact on democracy and freedom of expression. Everyone understands that libraries are important to the inhabitants of Norway. The entire committee is therefore very much in favour of the letter from the Minister of Culture, where the Council of State writes that there is a need to develop an offensive library policy – I agree – to develop robust public libraries for the future. At the same time, the government parties in their political platform have agreed to prepare the libraries for future development, which is a separate point in the platform, and to ensure the continued free lending of literature. The entire Committee believes that good library services adapted to the needs of a community can best be developed by local forces. This means that the Stortinget should not overrun local forces or communities, but we must create a law that can be adapted to the needs of individual municipalities. It is important to put in place a plan for how the state can best contribute to the good development of public libraries. The Ministry of Culture has started work on developing a national library strategy in cooperation with the National Library and other actors who have provided input. The government is now improving the efficiency of different arrangements in the management of its cultural policy – a field that is characterised by very good dynamism among the many actors and which can be better exploited in the field of children’s and youth literature policy. Good elements such as digital development of children’s and young people’s literature, knowledge of children’s and young people’s literature on all platforms, nationwide dissemination, literature provision in the cultural school system, the state of original Norwegian literature and the relationship between public and school libraries, which we have had before. This will contribute to the availability of high-quality children’s and young people’s literature, regardless of geography and literacy skills, accompanied by good dissemination to the full diversity of young cultural users.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1767	The libraries are a brilliant example of the need for community and meeting places. Libraries ensure people, children and young people, regardless of their social background, access to knowledge, culture, literature and values, and are today a meeting place for which very many appreciate and are happy. The view of what the library is has also changed very much in just a few years. I would say that I myself am relatively young, but I remember back when I went to school, that we were almost afraid of the librarian and were accommodated. It was a place where you came in with a sense of nocturnal thought. If you visit a library today, there's a completely different situation: it's full of life, it's full of joy -- reading, sharing, the ability to be together and to evolve for yourself and with others. I want to start by giving credit to SV, who has addressed this matter and in this way reminds us of the need to continue strengthening the libraries, and gives Stortinget an opportunity to give some perspective on what you want with the libraries for the future. The health study in Nord-Trøndelag, as I know well, shows that the proximity to cultural services is crucial for the extent to which an offer is used. The closer you are an offer, the more you use it. The importance of libraries in this way is evident, as we see that it is an offer that is close to people. No matter where you live, you have access to and use of library services in some way. It shows that we have succeeded in many areas. We were also concerned about this under the red-green government. In the cultural promise, we decided that we felt it was necessary to have an offensive language policy to strengthen the position of the Norwegian language. Norway is a small language area, and therefore the language is under constant pressure. In particular, neuron is under pressure. There we also wrote: ‘We are concerned that libraries provide a good digital offer and are committed to establishing a digital national knowledge base. We will strengthen the purchasing system for Norwegian literature." In the Cultural Lift II this was further developed, and it read as follows: ‘Strengthen the libraries as arenas for reading, learning and cultural experiences. Contribute to a quality and competence gap in libraries through development grants and model libraries and the use of new technologies. The purchasing arrangements for literature shall be strengthened. Establish a Norwegian Language Bank. Make sure the Nynoss is well-kept. Makes 2010 a national academic year.’» In other words, the cultural promise contributed to our long - standing growth in government funds for language, literature, and libraries. While in 2005, 428.7 million were allocated. kr over the Ministry of Culture budget, the total in 2013 was 873.6 million. kr, a real growth of almost 50 pst. The purchasing system has been and is essential to ensure the publication of Norwegian and translated literature for children and adults, to offer through the public and school libraries and to ensure better income for authors. A pilot scheme was decided in 2011 with the purchase and lending of e-books. When the Right-Fremskritsparte government joined, they immediately undermined cultural policy and, in particular, the purchasing system. Many will remember that it was cut 10 million. kr in the literature system, of which SEK 5.3 million. kr for purchases. The debate in the wake of the then State Secretary Knut Olav Åmås’ idea of removing Crimean Books documents the great commitment this creates. I am pleased that an overall committee expresses strong support for a library effort. Now, the funding of the development measures in the libraries depends on the Norwegian people's willingness to play, because it has been transferred to the funds, but nevertheless, in line with what has been stated by the Committee, we believe that there is a formidable uplift for the libraries in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1797	First, a comment on this with Norwegian, and indeed also Nordic, as a small language area: it is a challenge that is important to bring with us as a responsible committee. I came to realize when the representative, Grande, was standing here, that I've been told last week that maybe Turkish should be involved in language training. It has something to do with a very successful week in Falun, probably – it was not Grande that was hard to understand! But at least it shows that the language is important to many. Language is crucial for communication, and we have to take seriously the challenges facing it. So to the matter. I would first like to thank SV for making a clear desire to bet on the libraries as an important arena in all municipalities through the proposed representative. The initiative in libraries such as the arena to promote literature, for dissemination and for knowledge sharing is consistent with the government's clear willingness to invest in precisely this in the two budgets submitted by this government. By lifting the libraries as a field of activity these years, clear signals have been given to the municipalities to take library development seriously, and we see that the municipalities appreciate this and contribute to the desire to make the libraries a meeting place for people and a meeting place between different cultural expressions that all have written words in common in their expression. It is also good that SV raises some ideas about how electronic development can be well integrated into the libraries. It is strange, however, that representatives do not seem to have come to realize that this has been a very central issue already, both in the debate on libraries and not least in the debates on the conditions of the book industry. It is challenging to facilitate, through political decisions, the current raging development, but the most important thing we can do is at least to remove all possible obstacles to development. This does not mean that we should abdicate from this process and development, but that we must have a continuous dialogue with the industry in order to support the development and possibility of using new instruments, for the benefit of the public. We also have to have ice in our stomachs – or ice in our abdomen, as it's probably called today – to let development go a little further before we lock the solutions. Of course, state councils have an active relationship with libraries and development. It is shown by the investment in the budgets. This is why she also warns of a library strategy during the year, where it is possible to plot out some directions for further work. That's good. This, together with the fundamental skepticism of the Right to override the municipalities in their priorities, makes it difficult to support SV’s proposal on earring, a proposal that is very comprehensive and seems to be able to lock positions and solutions in the middle of a development that needs to go its way. However, the right-wing and government partners of the Progress Party believe that the proposal promoted by the Committee gives a good signal on areas of activity in a library strategy. It is natural that such a strategy should include measures to promote libraries as a meeting place for debate and public discussion. It has been our bet and of course is quite natural to follow up. The same is true when it is proposed that the strategy should include measures to promote libraries such as the arena for culture and experiences. Furthermore, in 2014, it is quite natural that efforts should be made to secure e-book lending in all libraries. It is absolutely vital in our political work for the libraries and for literature that children and young people are cared for in a special way. The government has already taken this seriously. Reaching children and young people on new platforms and with a diversity of interest is demanding, and it is important that measures to promote this are a natural and central part of a strategy and future initiatives. Cooperation between the public libraries and the school libraries is also essential in this picture and of the good that it provides. A variety of established services and large differences in local authorities-Norway make work challenging. It is therefore important that further efforts and development of libraries take care of all the good that has happened, while at the same time triggering bets in those places where it is needed. I am delighted with the joint commitment, which is for the benefit of the future of the public libraries, and I am delighted to have a dialogue with the government in the work on a library strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1816	The Christian People's Party will also give tribute to the SV for their clear and strong commitment to the library sector. It's an engagement Christian People's Party share. The Christian People's Party is concerned that libraries offer a wide range of services. We believe that the library sector needs to be strengthened and further developed in the years to come. This is about knowledge and education being available to everyone, regardless of the social and economic situation, wherever in the country we live, and regardless of age. The libraries are perhaps most important to the younger ones, and perhaps the older ones as well. Libraries contribute to strengthening democracy and freedom of expression. Libraries promote integration and inclusion. In the libraries, people who want to learn Norwegian language and get to know Norwegian society and culture can do it for free. The libraries thus represent fundamental common values in our society. Libraries are cultural arenas in so many ways and provide many of us with increased quality of life. The proposal for a national library promise contains many important elements. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Council of State writes in its reply that there is a need for offensive library policy, and that robust public libraries should be developed for the future. We know that the Ministry of Culture has started work on national library strategy. If the strategy is to give libraries a boost, the Christian People's Party believes that the role of libraries as meeting places for debate and public discussion is important. The library must be strengthened as an arena for learning and for cultural experiences. The purchasing system for literature needs to be strengthened, in particular literature for children and young people. Cooperation between the public libraries and the school is also vital. It is natural and necessary that all libraries are given the opportunity to borrow e-books. The Christian People's Party has programmed that we want the digital tools and offerings of the libraries to be further developed, among others. the National Library should facilitate the lending of ebooks to all public libraries. The Christian People's Party will therefore vote in line with the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1827	I would first like to thank the proposers for promoting this proposal. The centre party believes that libraries should be one of the most important meeting places in all communities. One must not be interested in either sport, music, data or cultural life to come to the library. The library is therefore one of the main local sources of knowledge and experiences that can also contribute to enabling people to participate in and understand society. The centre party is concerned that everyone should have the same access to literature and culture, irrespective of where they live. People's libraries are a low-threshold offer and the floor plan of the local cultural offer, offering a meeting of books, films and music. In addition to the geographical distribution of branches, the main prerequisite for the people’s libraries to convert these values into practice is that they have a free offer of books and other printed and digital media. Despite the downward trend in the number of visits beyond the 2000s, studies suggest that public libraries are still largely successful in managing the societal mission of making knowledge and culture accessible to all. Several studies show that a large proportion of the population regularly use the public library, that there is a high level of satisfaction with the public library, and that a large proportion of the population believes it is important to maintain this offer in the municipalities. These studies also show that children, young people and women are frequent users of the public libraries, and that this is a cultural offer that is widely used by the immigrant population. In the fall, the church, education and research committee was in New Zealand, and we know that New Zealand is a country that makes it reasonably good on international knowledge tests. That visit gave us an interesting insight into how new Zealanders use the library as a strong and important support unit for the school, as well as their own school library. Not least it was important for schools with students from home with few books in the bookshelf. The function of the libraries is particularly important in integrating them. The centre party has always been involved in the local public libraries. We've also always been busy with the school libraries, and we've been worried about a development in the school where the school libraries aren't given priority. We therefore think it is good that the representative proposal points to just how the public libraries can cooperate with the school on better library services. The main score must be good availability and attractive offer. Some places may therefore be a better solution for a strengthened school library. Swallowing if we're in the age of technology, it doesn't seem like the printed books are going to go away with the first. Nevertheless, today most of us get most of what we want into the living room on a level. More and more people will probably both borrow and buy e-books online. However, digitisation of library services at public libraries requires municipalities to have good broadband coverage. Digital interaction between libraries and upgrading the basic infrastructure of libraries must therefore be in place. The central batch assumes that the upgrade of network capacity must be part of a national library lift. The libraries must be where people are, preferably in a multi-use concept, as proposed by the proposers. Different sites choose different solutions. A national plan must not close the scope of local solutions. The structure of the public libraries must be fine-masked enough. Both bookbuses, bookboats and bookshops contribute to ensuring equivalent access to library services. During the period of the cultural promise, cultural policy attention was largely focused on the state level, but it is still the case that municipalities are the first line service in the field of culture. It is those who contribute as much as possible to the public funding of cultural life in Norway. The proportion of the municipalities' cultural budgets used in the public libraries has been reduced over the previous decade, and there has been a real decline in municipal operating expenditure for this purpose in the same period, measured in kronor per capita. It's a development that we, who like to call ourselves a knowledge nation, can't be recognized by. A little in the world is free, and therefore it is important that this plan becomes a stepping-up plan before being transferred to the municipalities' framework budget. The centre party is concerned that it is the cultural base wall that is now to be given priority, and we therefore support the SV proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1848	It is very gratifying that a Joint Committee is in favour of measures which may constitute the beginning of a completely necessary library lift. The left will notify support for the configuration. For the Left, the library is a decisive democratic institution. The library is one of the most important tools to ensure equal access to knowledge for everyone. The library is also an important meeting place between different people, different ideas, different places, times and thoughts. Some would argue that libraries have a less central role in a society where access to knowledge is no longer a scarce resource, but is around us all the time. I would say that is fundamentally wrong. Having an institution and, not least, a trade group, the librarians, who can help us to separate relevant from non-relevant information, and who can give us insights into abilities that we already didn't know we needed insight, will be as important in the future as it has been. I would nevertheless ask myself a little wonder that it is SV who has come with this representative proposal. For two major periods, they have voted against the Left's proposals for a librarylift. It has been said from the red-green side that the cultural promise helped to strengthen the width. But now one, if not other implicitly, has admitted that it has not, at least not for the libraries. Yes, one has changed the library laws and given the libraries a bigger community assignment, including the library's. as the debaters. That's good. But one has not arranged for the development that libraries should have had, as the way we acquire knowledge changes. The left has been involved in raising cultural life in the last ten years. We have been involved in increasing the public money stream to the cultural sector, both in opposition and in constructive opposition. At the same time, we have been very critical in the way that the previous government pumped up the size of heavy institutions, rather than strengthening the grassroots in Kultur-Noreg. The Enger selection documented what we were worried about, that one built a cultural life with lots of castles and little grassroots. Cultural spheres, grassroots voluntary activities and just libraries have little to do with the promise until now. We in the Left are very pleased that the government party is some of us in that a promise in the library sector is necessary, and we are very pleased that a joint committee and a gathering of this now see that the libraries have not been promised the promise as a knowledge and cultural institution it has forged in the last few years. Now it's time for the promise to begin.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1861	My childhood library was in the dark corridor, a small intestine, between the children's sphere and the youth school part of the Naustdal Children's and Youth School. The representative Rotevatn must be seated, because I intend to send him a visit later. If he absolutely has to run, I get it, but since he invited it in his post, it might be polite. That library was the last town the janitor changed pears. It was almost always dark there. And that was a little bit of a bounded book collection. The book I think best from there is the book I book until recently thought of as «Historical ships», which stood at the very bottom, a little to the left of the middle. I probably borrowed her between five and ten times. I was opening the literature festival in Akershus last fall, and then I told you about this library and this book. What happened then was that a skilled employee, while I gave my talk, began to search – I have searched for that book in many libraries and Googled her. She thought OK, when he's awake, when she can be released, she searched with "famous", "historical", and other words, and then she came to the book "Faunted Ships Through the Times" by Frank Knight. She found out that the book was in the warehouse in the basement of the Beckestua department, she sent someone down to pick her up and gave her to her boss, who could then hand over a loan of the book as a presage for my talk. I'm starting with this because the libraries in Norway, as several speakers have been inside, today is something completely different than it was. There are bright, airy, beautiful, modern rooms with top competent people all over Norway, offering a wide range of services to all of us. I think, in the same way that the representative Arild Grande thinks about the People's Library, the County and People's Library in Förde as a place where one could do whatever one wanted, as long as one didn't ate, talk, lo, smile or run. Now it's quite the opposite. An activity is being invited. On the Silver Mount in Stavanger they go cool youth to see and be seen. It is not a location to hide away. And at the library in Molde, which received the library award last year, they have the most important debate venue, free of charge, in a medium-sized Norwegian city. In addition, libraries take care of the function they have as the main intermediary of knowledge and of the national cultural heritage. At the same time, my impression – after visiting many of them – is that there is one thing the libraries in Norway have enough of, there is a good word from politicians. Because there is not one party or politician in Norway who is opposed to a library. On the other hand, it is well documented that while the cultural sector in Norway was double from 2005 to 2013, the use of libraries per capita has fallen slightly, and as part of the cultural budget, there is a fairly clear decline. It's not because of the bad will of any of the parties here on Stortinget, but because we haven't used the tools that are necessary. There is a lot of good in what the committee suggests when it comes to matters, of the subject that needs to be brought in, but the tool that would give a boost is what I call the nursery method, that is, a temporary escalation that has been ear-marked over a few years, which is then passed into the frame. It is a method for which all the parties on Stortinget have been willing to vote in at least one case for at least the last ten years – the majority have used the method both in kindergarten and in child protection. Several parties have also been interested in using him in the care of the elderly and other areas. I'm overconfident that if we really want to strengthen the libraries, so that they don't lose against other offerings, it's necessary to do so. I find it disappointing that no more parties support it. The left, as the representative Rotevatn said, went to elections about the same thing that we are now proposing, and he's surprised that we're proposing it, since we haven't done it in eight years. I agree, I've admitted in a number of debates that we should have done more. But if he's surprised that we're now proposing it, and not getting it, then it's incomprehensible that the Left doesn't support it when it's actually suggested to do something about it. I must also say that it is surprising to me that the Labour Party does not support the proposal, all the time it is a method they have used in other areas, and they in the rhetoric have been positive for such a library effort. I'm afraid that what's being presented here by the leaders of a strategy does not lead to a real economic boost, although there are many positive intentions and a clear will for the economic escalation necessary to achieve it. And then I'll also deal with our proposal, no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1880	Then the representative, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1883	Public libraries are unique cultural institutions where both knowledge, culture, literature and values are made available to all groups in society. They contribute to our formation, and they also expand our understanding of ourselves and the society we live in. Libraries are fundamental to freedom of expression and democracy, and they constitute a low-threshold offer and are perhaps our most successful integration arena. That is why the government also places great emphasis on the public libraries. So in them we have 428 Norwegian literature houses with a total of 715 sections. The government has an ambitious library policy. We will prepare the libraries for a digital everyday life, while at the same time providing entrepreneurs with the opportunity to live on culture to secure the value chain in the literature field. Lending of literature in libraries shall remain free of charge and in the budget of the year the objective of strengthening the libraries in their social tasks will be clearly demonstrated. We help libraries develop their role as knowledge intermediaries and improve their ability to disseminate their literature and cultural services. In the vocabulary about bets at public libraries, the question of designation is sometimes raised, as is the proposal of this representative. According to Norwegian law, municipalities have the primary responsibility for ensuring that citizens receive a good library offer. There are – and should be – local priorities and decisions that set the framework for the public libraries. Listening to the libraries was largely ignored some 30 years ago. It conflicts, in my opinion, with the principle of local self-government and should not be reintroduced. In recent years, the government has almost tripled the development funds of the public libraries by a total of 32.1 million. kr, so today the National Library manages 48.5 million. kr. Development funds shall strengthen libraries such as meeting places and public conversation and debate venues, such as the learning venue, and shall be used for service development and new means of dissemination. I have also started work on developing a national library strategy, which is planned to be presented later this year. The strategy will address the responsibility and tasks of the state to develop the public library for the future. With input from the National Library, the Council of Culture and other key librarians, we will develop a strategy on how the state can best raise the public libraries as a complement to the community's own initiative. The Committee's position addresses important points that I will follow up: libraries such as the meeting place and the venue for debate, public discussion, cultural experiences and learning will be discussed in the strategy. The fourth year's legislative change, which determines the meeting place function of the public libraries, has set in motion many good and exciting change processes in the public libraries. The strategy will also discuss e-book in libraries, which is a relatively young and challenging market. The cultural council purchasing systems ensure a wide range of publications for both adults, children and young people. The purchasing arrangements have been strengthened and are now being updated for the time being. New guidelines on the literature of discretion have already come into force both for adults and for children, and the case law. The library strategy will discuss the relationship between libraries and purchasing systems. Cooperation between public libraries and schools is important. In the past, the law had a one-sided requirement where the public libraries had to cooperate with the schools. With last year’s amendment to the law, Stortinget removed this requirement because the municipality itself should be able to optimise its use of resources. The public library and the school library should be able to cooperate as two entities within a municipality, where appropriate, without state regulation. The libraries are our most used cultural arena and the public service the inhabitants are most satisfied with. Our main challenge in the future is to develop the public libraries so that they continue to be relevant and can fulfil their societal role. Financial resources are one factor, but I think it can be a lot to pick up by thinking about new things, for example. on cooperation with other cultural and knowledge institutions in the municipalities. There's a lot going on in Library Norway, and I trust that the public libraries will also play a significant role in our society in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1905	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1908	In this debate, it has become very clear that an aggregate increase wants to contribute to strengthening the libraries for the future. There are many ways to do this, and the government has announced a library strategy to which a broad majority of the Biggest now have clear expectations. We also think it is important to have the majority of those who want to strengthen the purchasing system for literature and ensure its breadth, with particular emphasis on children and young people. We trust that the municipalities understand the need to have good libraries in the future as well, and that it will be reacted if the municipalities try to cut them. In any case, the state contribution is to strengthen the purchasing system, and we have strong expectations that this will be made visible already in the 2016 state budget. Can the Council confirm that this decision is being followed up on the first occasion and that we will see results already in the State budget for next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1915	I agree that it is important to work on a good development of the field of libraries, highlighting in particular measures to strengthen children’s and young people’s literature. We know that, among other things: Measures that provide incentives and facilitate publications in digital format are very important. We know that the dissemination of children’s and youth literature should be a particular priority. There is something the government stresses to the most diligent users of libraries. Therefore, the allocation to the purchasing system for children and young people has also increased by 5 million. kr in 2015, so we think this is important. We're going to follow this up, but as for what the 2016 budget is going to contain, we're going to get back to it. I think it's important now that we try to get the widest possible collection on the national strategy for libraries that we're going to present later this year. It's an important cultural arena, and it's an important arena for children and young people to meet at.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1922	I think I'm, as the committee, united in every word of what stands as the criterion referred to as a point that should be part of a national library strategy. There are sensible and general things, and it is good that such a strategy should be put forward. But I think in the library field is one of the challenges that everyone is, but how does one make sure that it is also followed up by a material economic promise? Too many of these things actually require a strengthening of the libraries. The library has been growing enormously for a few years now, but not the libraries, which I think we can be a lot of people after the Enger selection. My question to the Council of State is quite simply: is it her ambition that the libraries should get a clear financial boost over the next few years? How will she ensure this when she is skeptical about ear marking?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1927	The government has a great ambition for the libraries and to strengthen them. This is also why we have tripled our efforts to strengthen the important information activities that the National Library provides, in order to help us get live libraries around. As I said in my post, we've already spent 32.1 million. NOK, which makes them close to $49 million. be able to contribute to the launching of various development measures. That being said, it is important for us to be involved in facilitating a good framework for libraries. It is one of the things that we will, of course, discuss – not specifically what the budgets will contain – by specifying the areas to be covered by the national strategy when we present it later this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1934	It's very good with the 30 million, but if one compares to the population libraries in total costs in Norway, approximately. One and a half billion. kr – in addition, when other types of libraries are on top of it – this is 2 pst. of the public libraries and even less of the collecting libraries, so it's not a material economic boost for the libraries in Norway. So I would like to repeat the question: will the Council of State work for a substantial economic uplift for the Norwegian public library – and with what method? So I'd like to add a short question, and that's for the purchasing system, which is very positive for a takeover. One area where there have been special weaknesses, and where there is a need to do something, is the trial of children and young people. Sakprosa is a very important field. For many children, this is their entry into literature, and there is too much poor supply of it in many libraries. Is it possible for the Council of State to take specific action for children and young people when it is going to work with improvements in the purchasing system?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1943	With regard to the financial resources that will be put at the disposal of the state – the means of development for which the state is responsible – we will get back to that in the next budgets. I just remind you that the previous government, as the representative also put in, provided a library message in which many of these actions were promoted. It was relatively thick. And I noticed that at a later stage a short version was made because the main message was so thick. At the same time, I record that they were not able to follow up the measures that were actually included in this Communication, because there is a significant part of these measures that has not yet been followed up. We have contributed so far to the fact that we have at least started to promote proposals to increase the funds for the libraries. The means of development are essential. It is important that libraries actually be able to reorient themselves, that they are able to adapt to the new future we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1950	I'm trying again, because I actually thought the council would answer what I'm asking about in Stortinget. So I'm going to take a line number. 3rd@item: inlistbox I agree that there are things that haven't been followed up well enough when it comes to libraries in recent years. It's even quite well documented. So what I'm trying to figure out is whether the state council we now have is going to do this better and to a greater extent – as SV wants – than what has been done by changing governments in the last decade. Therefore I ask: is it an ambition for Minister of Culture Thorhild Widvey to get a substantial financial boost for Norwegian public libraries, for which the municipalities are then responsible? If she finds time for that, she can also try to answer my question about the trial for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1959	Yes, the government has an ambition for the libraries, as I also said in my post. We think they are very important, both as cultural arenas and as arenas for important meeting places. Literature policy is incredibly important. So we're going to bet on that in the years that are coming. I think it is gratifying that SV has more faith that this government will be willing to participate in – and honour – more bet in the libraries than the government they themselves were a member of. I also want to highlight the need to focus on action in children’s and youth literature. It is very important — and it is important for all the purposes there. With regard to e-books and developments there, we have made e-books a permanent part of the purchasing system today – in terms of both the literature for adults and the prose for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1968	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e1998	As stated in the interpellation text, carbon capture and storage may be the most important single technology. There is every reason to be concerned about developments in this field internationally. At the beginning of this century there was great enthusiasm and drive to get this done. We started off with Gassnova, a work that was started by the Bondevik government. The red-green government greatly reinforced this effort. We set up the technology center in Mongstad. We started working on full-scale cleaning at the gas power plant in Mongstad and gained many experiences from what has been shown to be useful lately, even if the full-scale project had to be stopped. There are many reasons why carbon capture and storage and the work around this stop. We noticed the element of the financial crisis. There was immediate less interest in investing in this type of technology and technology development. In our day we have an oil price drop that makes many of the engines of this research, namely the oil companies, a different priority. But most of all, I think that the lack of price of CO2 emissions is what makes the decision, that it is not possible to create a business model – as the conditions are right today. Nor should we underestimate the fact that this is not a plank drive. It's not straight ahead. It's not shelf product. A lot of progress is needed in this area. A point emission is not just a point emission. Each point emission has its technological capability and limitations with regard to carbon capture and storage, and the whole image is reasonably complex. The problem is that we are now losing momentum in carbon capture and storage. I believe that the government's passivity in this field, as it turns out in the government's carbon capture and storage strategy, does not help. We have seen that the government has cut considerably in the allocations to technology centres in Mongstad in relation to the proposals contained in the Stoltenberg government, and even the bourgeois majority further cut when this came to Stortinget last harvest. It's tragic. Global energy needs are increasing sharply. We all know that. The Committee was recently on a study trip to Tanzania and South Africa. Among other things, we received: see the development of urbanisation in Tanzania, driving the need for modern energy in major cities, a development that is classic for the whole of the world experiencing economic growth, which is working out of poverty. This results to a large extent in the use of fossil energy sources to produce electricity, and we are going to see increased emissions due to this. In South Africa, they are currently experiencing a major energy crisis. Power switching is part of everyday life. This shall be remedied by two heavy coal-fired power plants, one of which shall be prepared for capture and storage of CO2. Last year India asked for tenders for two large coal-fired power stations, which together have the same power or greater than all installed renewable energy in India. This is the picture that's coming forward. That means that we're going to have big point emissions in the future, no matter what else in the world we have to do on the energy side to get more renewable energy and less emissions. Therefore, we need to develop a technology that takes care of the emissions from these point emissions. The IEA scenarios that show that fossil energy will still be an important part of the energy mix in the future, and show that we can achieve the two-degree target, including with a fossil energy element, assume that we have CO2 capture and storage in place. If we do not have CO2 capture and storage in place within a short time, the cost of cutting CO2 emissions will be enormous in the future. The effects of an effective climate policy will feel negative to a much greater extent than what we see in the contours of, if we manage to get CO2 capture and storage in place. We must not underestimate the fact that the cost of slowing down in research and development of carbon capture and storage is high. The government has put forward a strategy for this, and we have previously said from this pulpit that it appears to be both unclear and uncommittal. On the one hand, it is emphasised that CO2 capture and storage is an immature technology: ‘Technology for CO2 handling is still relatively immature and further scaling and testing is required.’ On the other hand, a number of existing and newly completed projects are listed: ‘According to the Global CCS Institute, there is 60 CO2 handling project internationally with different maturity levels. [[GCCSI]] 21 of these projects are active full scale CO2 management projects, i.e. in operation or under construction.» This shows that we have technology in place. It still needs to be developed – clearly. But we know how to get to what needs to be done. What's the big problem is that there's no economy in it. It's not a business model. We lack incentives, and we lack a CO2 price that can set up a business model. In the projects we see in the United States, it's a business model that's going to use CO2 for increased extraction. We do not have such models in Norway today. We will not have it in the future either. We have to look at other incentives, in addition to the CO2 tax and the quota price. I think we need to look at positive instruments, such as support for the construction of CO2 capture and storage and some kind of support for the operation of this that provides security for those who invest in this kind of technology, so that they don't lose money, but that society is also taking part in this. Norway is at the forefront of this work — on the research side — but when this technology is to be rolled out, it will also be a huge market. We're not going to underestimate the effect it will have on Norwegian industry to be part of a cluster that can contribute and participate in this. This can also be a major business development issue. The foreign projects supported are important, and I believe that this should continue to be done. What's happening out there is just as important as what's happening here at home in terms of the climate struggle itself and that part of it, but we also have to look at the economic development. We also need to look at how we leverage our society into becoming a low-carbon society and a climate-neutral society by 2050. We must also have carbon capture and storage in Norway on high point emissions. In the light of the vague strategy put forward by the government, which does not respond to this, I would challenge the Council of State: how will the Council of State facilitate the application of CCS to point emissions in Norway? What are the government's ambitions in this field? What are the Government's ambitions for the use of carbon capture and storage as a business opportunity for Norwegian industry, to engage Norwegian industry in this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e2078	I would like to thank the representative Henriksen for the opportunity to do just that; explain our activity in order to realise CCS in general and also the work on monitoring the possibility of full-scale demonstration facilities in Norway, as mentioned in the Sundvolden Declaration. It is that the combination of climate challenges and an ever-increasing energy demand in the world is behind both the ambitions of government and the majority of the population for CO2 capture and storage. It is quite clear that CO2 management is and will remain an important climate action, especially in the long term. It was the previous government that chose not to continue planning a full-scale project at Mongstad in 2013, an assessment I think was wise. In the draft 2015 state budget, we presented our strategy for CO2 management. It contains, as is known, a wide range of activities in the field of capture, transport and storage of CO2 and the core of the work is to contribute to technological development and not least to cost reductions. There is no doubt that in order for CO2 management to reach its potential as a climate action, this technology must also be disseminated. Cost control is then important. The actions of the strategy include a number of activities in research, development, demonstration and not least a broad international commitment, so I am pleased that the representative Henriksen shows that they have just been in South Africa. South Africa is one of the countries with which we cooperate, among others. with support of an injection pilot for CO2 storage. The activities of the strategy are partly activities carried out by the previous government, and the technology centre in Mongstad is a key element of this strategy. The technology centre in Mongstad has already provided significant learning through both the construction and the tests carried out over time at the plant. Both Aker and Alstom showed good results from the exposure at Mongstad, and there is now a great interest in testing new technology at TCM, among others. from the supplier company Cansolv, owned by Shell, which is now testing its amine technology at Mongstad. This is a very exciting case, because Cansolv is a technology supplier of the Peterhead project in the United Kingdom, which is scheduled to take investment decisions during 2015. That Cansolv chooses to test on the TCM before they are going to build installations on a full scale, I believe shows both the need for and the utility of TCM. There are also plans for further testing on the amine plant once Cansolv has completed its campaign, and interesting technology cooperation with several international actors, particularly in North America, has been established through the TCM. So to today's theme: The government has an ambition to put in place at least one full-scale demonstration facility for CO2 capture and storage by 2022. To this end, we look at opportunities both in Norway and abroad. I'm glad we got broad support from Stortinget to spend money so that we can help realize a full-scale facility in Europe. At the request of the European Commission, the Government has replied that Norway is prepared to participate in cooperation with at least two other European countries to help realise a full scale CO2 management project in Europe. The ROAD project in the Netherlands is today the most mature project in Europe and will be a very current candidate. At the same time, we are studying the possibilities for full-scale demonstration in Norway. As the representative Henriksen is in, there is no reason to hide that the 2020 ambition is demanding, but we are working to achieve this. We have given Gassnova a mission, and it is that, in cooperation with Gassco and the Oil Directorate, they will develop an idea study to identify the potential for full-scale demonstration in Norway. At the same time, we are working on developing a framework for a first full-scale demonstration project. The aim is to find the best basis for deciding how to proceed. Gassnova's idea study will be handed over to the ministry at the beginning of May, and I've been busy doing a thorough, systematic effort to find the best solutions. I believe that the work done in Mongstad has shown us the need for that. The representative Per Rune Henriksen stated that this is demanding, and that this is not a shelf product. A few years ago, more than ten full-scale carbon capture plants were seen to be ready in Europe by this year. It's clear that this isn't going to happen. Most of the carbon capture installations operating in the world are installations operating on non-gas gas streams. There is no doubt that it is a number of more demanding solutions for flue gas, for which there are several fewer examples. I remind you again that we have two fantasticly important carbon capture plants in Norway, in Sleipner and in Snow White, and where Gudrun is also recently connected. I think it's important that we really get a full-scale system that enables us to transfer technology, make technology relevant, it has to be of a certain size. We believe that there are 400,000 tonnes of CO2 per year, and not many land-based emissions in Norway are suitable. The largest emission, with which the representative Henriksen is very well known, is from the Mongstad refinery, which has been, to put it mildly, carefully investigated. The same applies to the gas processing plant at Kårstø and the LNG terminal at Melkøya. Other major emissions in Norway come mainly from fertilisers, cement and aluminium production. Hydro Aluminium has launched a large pilot project on Hydro Karmøy which is supported by Enova. This is a very good example of the fact that measures other than CO2 capture can also provide good environmental and climate impacts. Then we are left with relatively few emissions that are actually current candidates for full-scale demonstration. I think one of the important steps we have taken is to separate the work on catching from the work on transport and storage. Companies involved in the realisation of full scale CO2 capture demonstration facilities need not necessarily be responsible for the planning and implementation of the transport and storage of CO2 in a demonstration phase. We are working on a proposal for the organisation and financing of transport and storage of CO2. For a first full-scale demonstration facility, it is probably shipping that is most relevant, and we also want to look at the possibility of coordinating storage with other CO2 management projects in the North Sea. The type of solutions that are finally chosen depends, for example, on: of which capture projects and storage sites the Idea studies show is most relevant. The results of the Idea studies will be important for the further assessment of the type of business models and the tools that should be used to realise full scale CO2 management in Norway. CO2 capture and storage is an important part of the government’s climate work. The need for CO2 management is well documented by reports from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the International Energy Agency, on which the representative Henriksen was also involved. There is a strong consensus that demonstration facilities are necessary for technology development and to achieve fully necessary cost reductions that can contribute to technology deployment. At the same time, the efforts we make in research and development, in international work and in the efforts we put into the TCM for the development of CO2 management technologies are important. In order for CO2 management to become a climate action with a high impact, large installations need to be built. That is why we will, among other things: Based on the idea study work, come back to Stortinget in the state budget for 2016 with our further plans to realise the full-scale ambition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e2166	I thank you for the presentation by the Council of State on the work. What I missed was an explanation of the ambitions in this field. There's a job going on. There's a job going on. You take with you the experiences that have been done, good and bad, from the work that has been done. But I miss what's about ambition, in addition to a purely factual description. In particular, I miss some considerations from the Council of State about the industrial opportunities that this technology provides, and can give, for Norwegian industry, in the light of the fact that we are as far ahead as we are. Governments say the dissemination of technology is important. To do that, costs have to be reduced. It is also a fact that the dissemination of technology itself – the scaling of technology, the spread of technology – will also lead to cost reductions. That's one of my points in this case. My second point is that we also need to put this type of technology into place as real CO2 reduction measures in Norway if we are to achieve the objectives we have set for both 2030 and 2050 – not least 2050. That is why I lack a more offensive attitude from the Council of State on the clearing of Norwegian point emissions, which exists in a small number, but in important sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e2176	I am pleased with something the representative Henriksen said when he focused on the perspective towards 2050. If we are to achieve the objective of a low-carbon society by 2050, we need to do a lot of work in many areas, including: in carbon capture and storage, but also in the phase-out of fossil energy sources in Norway and the production of renewable energy. Then the representative spoke to Henriksen in his last article about ambitions. Yes, I will take note of the criticism from Henriksen. Now, it's not like ambitions have been absent in this work over the years. It has probably been the opposite – it has been the opposite. I am, as I said in my post, concerned about doing this work thoroughly to get the government in the first place and then the Stortinget a sufficiently good decision-making basis for the further process of this. That is why we have also launched these idea studies, which we will receive a report at the beginning of May, and which will be briefed on by the Stortinget at the latest in connection with the government budget for next year. Then I fully agree with the representative Henriksen: what really will help show that we actually get the cost down are not PowerPoint presentations, of course, but it is that we actually realize full scale carbon capture plants, either in Norway or elsewhere around us. It is what will allow for industrial opportunities for Norwegian suppliers, and that is what in the long run has the most to say in order to reduce carbon emissions and greenhouse gas emissions. I was through this in my post. We have very few emission points in Norway that are very well suited for carbon capture and storage. There is no doubt that in the case of a future expansion of the NHG fields on the Norwegian base, carbon capture and storage are most relevant. In the case of flue gas emissions, there are very few emission points, but as I said, we are working on identifying the possibilities in the idea study that Gassnova is now working with the Oil Directorate and Gassco. Then we look at the possibilities for identifying potential opportunities in Norway, and this will be duly informed by the Stortinget towards the state budget for 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e2187	On the basis of perhaps being able to say something that might seem a little unreasonable to some people in the hall, I believe – at least it is my observation – that in the matter of carbon capture and storage, a new phase took place after the fall of 2013. In my opinion, it is obvious that one has now entered a more passive phase. One is very afraid to show a clear, clear way, and one is also very afraid to adopt an ambitious attitude. This may be some of the reasons for this, but I think it is unusually important that the opportunities Norway has as a nation to bring forward a new technology in such an important area will be crucial. This year, Gassnova is celebrating its 10th anniversary. I heard an interview with the Executive Director there a little while ago, where he boasted of the competence that Norway has acquired over the ten years, and that a long way ahead is leading in an international image just on carbon capture and storage in the Norwegian environments. It's incredibly important, because it's unmistakable – at least from my point of view – to think that we're going to be able to approach the low-carbon society without finding a solution to carbon capture and storage. Then I think this interpellation is very timely, because we don't know exactly what the government will do. We do not know how one will be involved in stimulating Norwegian knowledge, stimulating Norwegian industrial businesses, etc. in order to acquire a future in which one can also cope with the emissions representing a hazard and a challenge to the climate. So that's good, what Hydro has now done in Karmøy. The pilot they've now developed, they're now saying they're themselves process-wise, with so low emissions that they can't process any further down. If they are to have additional emission shots, it must be that a hawk on some sort of carbon capture and storage. There is a very clear description of how far technology has come in some areas — and it has been produced by Norwegian industrial environments and by Norwegian knowledge. This is the motivation that Norwegian industry, Norwegian knowledge, must continue. They must be supported by what the government also chooses to do in this field. And now it's affordable enough that you can push the problem away and say that we don't have enough point emissions in Norway to deal with that kind of problem. But that is the way industry, for example. a total cement industry, has chosen to use Norcem in Brevik as an opportunity study to capture carbon and, where appropriate, to manage CO2 emissions. There is considerable encouragement in itself as to what industry can show from results in Norway, and shows that Norwegian industrial competence and understanding are quite essential. So instead of worrying that one does not have enough point emissions in Norway, we might be worried about the industry that chooses to take some brave steps, which dares to take some risk. So we can ask ourselves the question: Will the government associate with the type of industry and reduce the risk of getting to CCS projects and carbon capture and storage projects in Norway? Is the Minister of Oil and Energy – and the Government – interested in using the experience gained in Norwegian soil in this technology? It should then be a simple answer – to clarify in this inter-pelling debate whether the government will contribute to reducing risks and stimulating Norwegian industrial environments that take on their own responsibility to try to manage greenhouse gas emissions under their own direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e2205	As the interpellant, representative Per Rune Henriksen, is involved, the capture and storage of CO2 is seen as the most important single technology in reducing global greenhouse gas emissions. I agree with his assessment that Norway is at the forefront of this work, with experience from Sleipner and Snow White on Norwegian Socket and TCM knowledge from the work with full-scale CO2 handling at Mongstad. So ask the representative of the State Council, Lien, how he wants to facilitate the use of CCS on major point emissions in Norway. The problem, which the Council of State also has to face, is that there are many small point emissions here in the country, and many will think it is good that they are small, but it would be much easier with few, large when it comes to carbon capture and storage. Another problem – and this should be well known to the Labour Party and former Secretary of State Henriksen – is that technology is very demanding both technically and not least economically. With billions of water on the red-green moon landing in Mongstad, it is important to learn from these barrels and bet where it is possible to close. When one calls it tragic and says it's losing momentum, we have to be able to ask ourselves what's tragic. Is it that the Labour Party does not have the capacity to gain experience, which is most tragic, or is it that a search for progress is appropriate? Norwegian industry has knowledge and technology that can contribute to future value creation in this field, but with current quota prices and missing CO2 market, what the interpellant has to do is add additional tools to develop a business model for CCS in Norway. It is also known that parts of the industry, e.g. Norcem in Brevik, who was also in Aasland, is looking for good solutions for this, but it is one of the major emissions in the country. And the question is, shall one, through the monopoly situation that Norcem would then have, bet on this? So the interpellant says that in order for us to achieve our ambitions on greenhouse gas cuts, one must also use CO2 management in Norway. There may be a consensus, but it's not technology that we get overnight, like the red-green government believed for a long time. But what is still open is whether we should develop this technology – as a world-wide demand – within Norway's borders, or whether we should seek greater international cooperation to solve this major challenge, which is also international. Experience so far from Mongstad shows, in my opinion, that we should seek a wider professional environment, a broader economic foundation, preferably through international cooperation, and also within the EU, where we have a common food market and cooperation in research, as the Council of States calls it. Until then, we have to think carefully, so that this time we are closed in achieving our goals of a technology that is both cost-effective and technically feasible even within the small points we have within our borders. It's the main task of the Council of State, which I'm sure he'll give the necessary attention to the future. So what has to be at the bottom is to be thorough, targeted, and results oriented.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e2234	Through its reports, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has shown us how disastrous the consequences of a global temperature increase of more than 2 degrees would be. We will experience major changes in coastlines and flooding of lowland areas. A large part of biodiversity will be lost. Large parts of the world will experience increasing scarcity of fresh water. Uncontrolled warming will lead to the melting of the tundra and police and the burning down of the world’s rainforests. The melting of the tundra and large forest fires will release large amounts of greenhouse gases, which in turn will lead to increased heating. Both the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the International Energy Agency consider CCS to be the most important single technology for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. CCS is a technology that is in use in the world today, although the debate often does not sound like that. Norway has even been a precursor nation of CCS. Through education, research and industrial development, Norwegian environments have developed skills, technologies and projects leading in a global context. Together with Norway’s strong climate exposure, this has given us a unique position that drives more climate-friendly societal development. This is particularly important as Norway is also a significant producer and exporter of oil and gas. On the Norwegian base, we have two CO2 storage projects, Sleipner and Snow White. Canada is running a CCS facility which in size corresponds to a full scale gas power plant, i.e. approx. 1 million tonnes of CO2 per year. This is roughly equivalent to the full-scale plant in Mongstad, which was scraped. We believe that an action plan for CO2 capture and storage should be drawn up from the highest point emissions in industry. The cleaning of high point emissions in industry is one of the most effective and targeted measures to achieve large national emission reductions. Incentives, laws and regulations as well as the use of concessions can make CCS more attractive than emissions of CO2 – or provide access to large values where the cost of CCS is small in comparison. Both Sleipner and Snow White were realised without a crown of public support, while the full-scale Mongstad initiative cost Norway billions. The climate director of SINTEF has said this: ‘The point is that CCS must be made economically viable in order for it to be disseminated and the State must be involved as a precursor in the form of incentives, laws and frameworks for operation. This has also been the case for the introduction of bioenergy and wind power. [[Germany]] [[Denmark]] Even the oil industry sees that CCS is necessary to ensure its own income and livelihood in the future. Shell is an example that invests heavily in CCS both for oil sand operations, in technology development and participation in new projects. The cement and steel industries have few options other than CCS to reduce their emissions, and HeidelbergCement, for example, invests, as we have heard, in a very important test facility at Norcem in Brevik. A Norwegian investment in CCS is not just a contribution to the global fight against climate change. With offensive and ambitious efforts, it can be a competitive advantage for our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e2273	Thanks for a good interpellation from the Workers' Party Per Rune Henriksen. The question he is asking is very important: how will the Council of State facilitate the use of carbon capture and storage on higher point emissions in Norway? Let's start by making one thing quite clear: what was a big and groundbreaking and very engaging vision that Norway was going to land that served the world groundbreaking climate technology through CCS was a vision that was shot down by the red-green government with finds and pinches in the summer of 2013, when they canceled the full-scale project at Mongstad. The whole point of this vision, the whole point of a moon landing vision, is that it's being implemented even if it's difficult, and even if it's expensive. And when you choose to cancel it, it's just that you don't implement the project yourself – that means that you've changed your mind, that you've changed your line, that you're not willing to make the investments you need to make for Norway to be the technology supplier. The Green Party was critical from the very beginning to the carbon capture campaign in Mongstad, because we believed that the main function of that project, as well as ensuring that we got a gas power plant, would be to put off imposing tough enough climate requirements on Norwegian oil and gas activities. I have to say that we have got completely right. But although carbon capture and storage can no longer be said to be a technology flagship and a vision for Norway in relation to the rest of the world, the Greens are also of the opinion that the technology has to be put into use where it can be used. There I want to give the Council of State absolutely right in one thing he just said: it is only when we implement concrete full-scale projects on carbon capture and storage that we get the price down. It's the same with carbon capture and storage as with any other new technology: we have to be willing to invest to get the technology operational and to get prices down. The first windmill, the first electric car, the first solar panel was extremely expensive and terribly inefficient, and someone had to pay for it. The great example that we all know is the willingness of Energiewende and German taxpayers to pay the whites out of their eyes to build up the renewables industry in Germany, and that has also worked. But it costs money. We have one chance in this country. It's using the technology and putting it to use where we need it. And we need it very much, because we can't carry out the emission cuts we've set ourselves as targets and adopted in this room even here in Norway. We have large point emissions. We have the famous Mongstad refinery, including the power plant, which in 2013 emitted 2.4 million tonnes of CO2. Gassco has its plant on Kårstø, which in 2013 released 1.1 million tonnes. Yara has its factory in Porsgrund, which in 2013 released 900,000 tonnes. Snow White outside Hammerfest released 900000 tonnes in 2013. And Norcem Brevik released 800,000 tons in 2013. Gassnova’s potential study highlights Norcem and Yara as current points for CO2 capture and storage, while not as offensive on Snow White, but here the justification is mainly financial, not technological. The carbon capture strategy presented in the 2015 state budget is not very offensive. There I agree with the Workers' Party, even though I completely disagree with the Workers' Party in a production that gives the new government the responsibility that the air has gone out of the carbon capture operation in Norway. The red-green government has to take a lot of care of that responsibility. So we have a situation where the emission sources exist, the technology exists, and the instruments exist. The pollution law allows companies, including in the quota sector, to apply the best available technology. Today's practice, the extent to which greenhouse gas emissions are, in fact, exempt from legislative change and where the pollution law is not applied, is strongly contributing to the fact that the climate agreement, which all the other parties in this room are so concerned about their adoption, is in fact not being fulfilled. The Green Party therefore believes that, first, the state must make it absolutely clear that the major point emission sources in Norway are to be cleaned, and that the legislation that is in place, the pollution law, or the new and even better legislation, a climate law, should be used to implement this. A broad competition for the implementation of these clean-up projects — all of them, not just some of them — should be announced and prepared for substantial payments by the State. It is an illusion to think that you can establish a value chain and a profitable implementation of this technology without paying significantly at the start of the start-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e2298	Realisation of full-scale CO2 capture and storage has been the central objective of CCS policy in Norway since 2005. The budget for the current year takes a step in the right direction to contribute to the realisation of full-scale facilities internationally, but there is little significant progress in the realisation of full-scale facilities in Norway. The government's CCS strategy shows that they still think of CCS technology as immature, while at the same time pointing to a number of outstanding projects, both in Norway and elsewhere in the world. In the description of the background and status of carbon capture and storage in Norway and internationally, a number of factors have been added that are intended to paint a health image, but that in practice works misleadingly, and at the same time contradictory. On the one hand, it says: ‘Technology for CO2 handling is still relatively immature and further scaling and testing is needed. The first projects will provide the necessary experience in the construction and operation of large-scale installations for the capture and storage of CO2. This is an important part of technology development and is necessary to achieve cost reductions.’ On the other hand, list a number of existing and recently completed projects: ‘According to the Global CCS Institute, there is 60 CO2 handling project internationally with different maturity levels. [[GCCSI]] 21 of these projects are active full scale CO2 management projects, i.e. in operation or under construction.» Then a plant describes, especially in Canada and the United States. These are installations on a full scale and on a smaller scale. Several have existed for decades, some have recently been built. It's time for the Norwegian government to acknowledge that we're past the stage where CCS as a technology is seen as being immature or immature. This is very important to be able to focus on the area that is really challenging, easy to put in place a proper framework for CCS. The left has said that it should be opened for the support of the international CCS project by Norwegian authorities. However, it is necessary to develop and implement a plan to realise CCS rather than new distributions. The strategy suggests that there are too few and some small emissions in Norway. The left will nevertheless stress that these are point emissions that should be cleaned to achieve the long-term climate targets for Norway. In addition, Norway has a responsibility to develop CCS in practice, and to lead as a good example. Especially this applies to gas and industry, where there is a need for more international experience. It is all in the best interests of Norway to be able to cope – research, experience and financial basis. The climate agreement also sets out to do so — and the climate agreement, it is firm. Much attention is focused on the catch section, but the government CCS strategy sets out the potential for a large storage space in the North Sea to meet the European demand for a CO2 stock. The CO2 storage satellite is made by the Oil Directorate, and the work is done by the North Sea Basin Task Force. It shows that there are great potentials for storage, both on a Norwegian base and in the North Sea. The government's strategy indicates that CO2 storage costs in the North Sea are high, and the need for new storage space is too low. However, it is critical that the work on clarifying the legal consequences of offshore storage and transfer of CO2 across borders is now under way, in order to ensure the necessary storage capacity in time until a capture facility is in place. Norwegian authorities must continue their efforts to develop CO2 stocks in the North Sea in order to reduce the risk of future capture projects and to ensure that the shortage of storage sites does not hinder the development of CCS. The necessary framework must be in place so that a storage is ready on the day CO2 is captured.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e2364	I thank you for a good debate on an important topic – a debate that shows that there is a broad consensus that carbon capture and storage is important. I would like to comment on some of the points raised in the debate. I fully agree with the Council of State that thorough work is important, that studies are still being done, that work is being done on the organisation of models and projects in order to realise this. I am pleased that the work that has been done on this is being carried on, and that new elements are also being brought in, as new knowledge comes. International cooperation has always been important in the Norwegian CO2 capture and storage strategies, but it needs to be clarified that this is not about being an alternative to projects in Norway or that, if we are betting on Norway, we are not going to bet internationally. This is, to the most extent, a work that has international significance and needs to be done internationally, but it is also important that we have a Norwegian perspective on this, which I am going to come up with. I meet the government's announced proposals in the government budget for the autumn, after Gassnova has delivered her recordings. I can say that the Labour Party will support an offensive policy on this. We're about to have a plan for expanding and operating the Sverdrup field to Stortinget. We hope that large fields will be developed in the Barents Sea. We want to establish industry based on the power surplus that we have in the Nordic region. All of this will give us emission sources that will stand for decades to come. Locked-in CO2 emissions, i.e. CO2 emissions that become large point emissions, which are now being built and which will last for many, many years, are, to the most extent, a problem for us in Norway as well. That is why I believe that the kind of debate we have had here today must continue to be an important part of the climate and environmental debate in Norway, and I believe that carbon capture and storage must be incorporated into our strategy to become a climate-neutral country by 2050.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e2386	Let me first just make it clear that it is exactly what the representative Aasland said: The work with carbon capture and storage went into a new phase in the autumn of 2013. And I'm very happy about that – very happy about that. Then they had been doing full-scale carbon capture and storage in Mongstad for many, many years, and spent billions of dollars on it. So I'm glad to say that the representative of Aasland is quite right – in the autumn of 2013, the carbon capture and storage work went into a new phase. That's absolutely right. However, I do not agree with the representative of Aasland – at least we have a basis for what we should do. First of all, we do a lot -- we do research, we do development, we do demonstration, and we do extensive international work with the support of our cooperation parties in Stortinget. Then I am also both happy and grateful for the commitment of the Norcem and Heidelberg Group and their fellow players in the European cement industry to Norcem Brevik. Now this work is being done in which no country has participated – as the representative of Aasland and a few of the other speakers said. I think that is completely unreasonable, given that the state through CLIMIT pays 75 pst. of the costs of the project, which have a total cost of 93 million. kr. It's a very good project, I like the support from Norcem, but it's a project that's largely funded by the government and the Stortinge. Four technologies are being tested on Norcem, and it looks very exciting what's coming out of there. So instead I said a little about what we've been working on in Norway, is primarily flue gas. There are a few carbon capture projects on the flue gas, but there are not very many on a full scale, and it is probably not possible to stick under a chair that there have been challenges with them. Some of these challenges have been reduced because competence has been obtained from the testing centre in Mongstad. So the representative Sveinung Rotevatn is absolutely right when he says that one of the things that needs to be worked on is the possibility of moving CO2 across borders. It is a work that both my colleague Tine Sundtoft in the Ministry of Climate and Environment and I am working on – to get more countries to ratify the London Protocol, as we have done, which allows just such transport. Then I want to say that we in the North Sea have already established good expertise in storage capabilities, and we have already stored CO2 in the North Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e2405	The debate on substance is closed. So 8 is going to be equal to-- so 8 is going to be equal to-- 8 is
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e2419	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e2433	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e2440	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e2450	During the debate Knut Storberget has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to review the milk production and dairy instruments, including the milk price equalisation scheme, with a view to strengthening the overall competitiveness of Norwegian milk and Norwegian dairy industry and to promoting this in the case of Stortinget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e2483	In the course of the debate, Sveinung Rotevatten put forward four proposals on behalf of the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend Section 1 of the Sale of Goods Act in order to extend its purpose to take account of health and the environment.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests the amendment of Section 2 of the Sale of Goods Act to extend the composition of the Council of Turnover to include representation from health and environmental interests or authorities, without shifting the majority of agricultural industries in the Council.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend Section 11 of the Sale of Goods Act so that the proportion of funds transferred to the Information Offices via the Turnover Council is not bound by the type of product from which the fees are levied.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the sample to evaluate the system for balancing agricultural commodity markets to assess the extent to which today’s system contributes to the promotion of the Health and Environmental Policy Guides and Obligations of the Storing.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e2533	During the debate, Gunnar Gundersen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals on how to ensure good and reliable information to consumers on groceries. The government asks the government to assess the consequences and costs of the creation of a possible daily food portal for Norwegian consumers.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e2562	It is the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left that are behind the Committee's position on I and II. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will also vote in favour of the Committee's position on I and II. That means that the Right Party and the Advance Party shall vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e2630	During the debate, Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal is made available to the representatives. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose a comprehensive plan for a five-year national library promise. The library shall include a national strategy for the public libraries, an earmarked escalation of the funding for municipal library operations, the establishment of a common national digital media budget and an analysis of how best to ensure access to books and e-books, increased grants for staff empowerment measures, and support for the establishment, adaptation or extension of library facilities.’;» The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e2685	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e2692	Case No. 9 and 10 are the second time legal proceedings and refer to Acts 41 and 42. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-03.ana.ud2302e2734	Thus, today's map has been processed. Is there anyone who wants the word before the meeting is cancelled? - It's not.
