ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e51	The previously temporarily exempted alternate of Oslo, Truls Wickholm, has again taken up the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the representative of Mr Geir Jørgen Bekkevold on leave from 25 February to 3 March to chair, on behalf of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, the election observation in Tajikistan by Mr Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on parental leave from 2 March to 13 April from the representative of Mr Torgeir Micaelsen on parental leave from 3 March to 19 June Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first deputy representative of the Buskerud County, Laila Gustavsen, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Torgeir Micaelsen, for welfare reasons. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For the Province of Buskerud: Niclas Tokerud from 3 March to 19 June For Oslo: Ingunn Gjerstad from 3 March to 9 April For Telemark County: Hanne Thürmer Tuesday 3 March – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative, Mr Q. Raja, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e106	I have the great pleasure on behalf of myself to make representative proposals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions for transport to, from and at Norwegian airports.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e111	The representative, Mr Micasen, will also put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e114	It's on behalf of more than myself. On behalf of the representatives of Tove Karoline Knutsen, Ruth Grung, Freddy de Ruiter, Karianne O. Tong and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to bet on personalised medicine in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e121	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e135	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e149	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. The President will also propose that there be a succession of six lines in response to statements by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e156	Let me first of all thank the Committee for a good cooperation in connection with the government's proposal to repeal the Student Cooperation Act § 6 seventh paragraph. This provision currently requires the membership of two thirds of the Board of Directors by decision on major borrowings, start-up of new business, extension of existing business for commercial purposes, or major changes in the internal organisation of student orders. The Committee sees the importance of well-functioning and independent student relations in order to ensure an equivalent offer across the country. The Committee is also pleased that significant efforts have been made in the sector to strengthen the administrative capacity of interconnections. It is also very much in favour of the government's proposals in the committee. In the case of the Progress Party, it is a principle that decisions should be taken as closely as possible to the extent to which the decision is affected. Therefore, it is gratifying that the government is promoting a proposal that gives students back the right to consult their own everyday life and their own study offerings. From 1939 to 2013, it was an important principle that the students had full rights of consultation in the board of directors, where they could make decisions in the communications on behalf of their fellow students. Unfortunately, this democratic practice was removed by the red-green government. Despite considerable resistance among the communities, student organisations and institutions, a provision was introduced with the consequence that students lost the majority in important matters. The Progress Party was opposed to the introduction of the red-green and little student-democratic provision, and would therefore support the government's proposal to reverse the provision. I am also pleased that a large majority of the Committee endorses the proposal which, in practice, gives students the right of access to communications. The student organisations, associations and institutions welcomed the proposals of the Right-wing Party Government. The government parties are in favour, the Left and Christian People's Party are in favour, as well as the SV and the Center Party are in favour of removing the rule. The only party that opposes this proposal is the Workers' Party. It's strange that a party with social democracy like its political ideology doesn't want to secure student democracy. It is a paradox that the Labour Party is talking about its democratic principles when it does not apply to everyone. The head of the Workers' Party's knowledge committee, Jette Christensen, said a few weeks ago that it is "stupid to stop something that is stupid and start with something that is tricked". What had really been tricked was that the Workers' Party actually ended up with what was stupid, even though it was they who introduced this provision, and started with something that is tricked, namely removing a provision that prevents students from guessing over their own everyday lives. That is not the case, and the Workers' Party continues to oppose the principle of students' right of self-determination and undermines the students' user management. The money base of the Narvik Agency has long been used in this debate to show how wrong things can be. It was also used as an argument to introduce the provision on a qualified majority in the CSMs in 2012. Nevertheless, this decision was unanimous in Narvik, so the change of law that took power from the students would not make any difference. The working party clearly has a principle that important decisions should have a broad majority in order to be valid. Why must this not apply to other institutions? Should it not be, then, that important decisions in the Grand Duchy must have a broad majority? Should not the rule apply to e.g. admission of loans to public limited liability companies? I cannot see that the Labour Party has made proposals on demands for a broad majority in, for example. limited liability companies, and it becomes obvious that this is a distrust of the students. The argument for standing on the side line in this case is weak. The working party should have learned from the Senterpartiet and SV and followed the mountain weather rule no. 8: Turn around in time, there is no shame to turn around. The Progress Party has confidence in the students. It is the students who make use of the welfare services provided by student relationships. And it's the students who are closest to their fellow students. I can't imagine a greater motivation for doing a good job and making decisions that benefit all students in the future as well. The competence of the boards is good, which implies that the general majority is sufficient to ensure sound and well-established decisions. It is a victory for the students that this matter today has a majority. With the Advance Party and the Right in government, the students gain more power over their own everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e179	The background to this amendment was an audit report from the Ministry of Knowledge, which had revealed that several interactions were poorly managed and were in deficit. The argument from the then knowledge minister Kristin Halvorsen was that decisions that had been taken in student policy justified a tightening of decision-making rules. The aim was to strengthen the majority requirement to help prevent poor economic governance. This does not mean, of course, that there is a guarantee that decisions can still be taken by accident, but there is no doubt that it will contribute to improving the quality of decisions. This case is not about the students who sit on the board, nor is it about the distrust of the students. In fact, it is normal practice in both private and public enterprises to impose higher requirements than a mere majority when making particularly important decisions. For example, all limited liability companies require: a two-thirds majority in the general meeting when deciding, inter alia, on: capital increase, split up the company and merge the company with others. When this requirement is available, it is not justified by the distrust of the general majority, but it is in just such cases, in important matters for decision, that the contributions and perspectives of the other board members become important for the adoption of well-considered and thought-out decisions. Head of the Student Association in Trondheim stated on 3 November 2014: ‘In cooperation, it is customary practice for decisions to be taken unanimously after a longer discussion. When a decision is taken, the norm is that the entire board should be behind it. [[...]] He therefore believes that the practical implications of the change will be small, since the majority of the decisions taken by the CCS are consensus-based in any case.’ That means that governments are always striving to reach decisions where the entire board is behind, and that is completely in line with the intention of today's law. It's affordable, and it's a strong signal that they're taking their societal task very seriously. In order to ensure that these high values benefit students, it is important to ensure that decisions that have long-standing financial implications for the well-being of students are carefully evaluated and broadly anchored. In cases where this is not equally prominent in the boards, the law will act as a safety valve and will help to strengthen the quality of the decision increasing the financial risk. The University of Eastfold has also pointed out in its consultation response the importance of keeping the legal requirement of a two-thirds majority. They point to the importance of the value of the law in which the economic risk is significantly increased. Now that we've been working on increasing the competence of the government, it's great, and it's important. Increased competence and the requirement for a two-thirds majority of key issues complement each other in a good way and will make a good contribution to ensuring the quality of decisions at the next round, and will ensure the well-being of students and the fulfilment of their important societal tasks. Student relations shall provide students with reasonable welfare services such as student housing, health care, kindergartens and canteens, which contribute to ensuring equal rights to education in Norway. This societal mission is so important that more than a purely symbolic policy is required. Today's law states that student relations should continue to be conducted – students should have the leader and the majority of board members – and we must remember that most decisions are taken by a general majority. It is only exceptional that a two-thirds majority is required. The Labour Party does not wish to accept the proposed amendment to the Act. We believe in Student Cooperation and have great confidence in the students and want to strengthen their role further. We believe this will lead to greater and wider anchoring of important decisions. It is important to ensure a well-functioning, robust and equivalent student welfare throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e203	With this bill, the government gives the students back confidence to be able to manage their relationships. From 1939 to 2013, it was a fundamental principle that the students had full rights of consultation and a majority of the board of directors. Then the Red-Green government made sure that this principle was scrapped, against the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left's votes. The student institutions, which have the task of caring for the well-being of the students at the individual university, are their own legal entities. Student welfare is an important part of developing a good student environment. And who has a greater interest in a good study environment and good welfare arrangements than the students themselves? That is precisely why the students had a majority in the board, so that they could make important decisions on their own. The student participation and management of his or her own student welfare are, in our opinion, a fundamental element of the whole communication system. The requirement to join two thirds of the members of the board of directors in individual cases represented without doubt a restriction on the user management of the students. It doesn't want to be right. That's why the government is also proposing the change we're now dealing with. Student relations manage great values on behalf of students, and they have a great social responsibility. For this reason, the Right has been concerned with facilitating the development of the competences of the Governing Boards, so that they are well organised and the values and resources managed in the best possible way. Here we have noticed that the students have done a significant job. We're happy about that. We have also noticed that in the setting in this case, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have changed sides, and now join the bourgeois majority. In the setting, these parties clearly state that they now see that the 2013 amendment to the law was unfortunate for the student democracy and the user-driven student welfare. You have to be allowed to change your mind. But we also note that the Workers' Party is now alone in wanting to continue the scheme from 2013 and does not recognise the arguments for changing the law. It is then natural to ask if the Workers' Party does not trust the students, and why they do not show it here today. That this is important for the students, there is no doubt about it. Anders Kvernmo Langset, head of the NSO, made it clear when he said in a press release on 31 October 2014: ‘It’s a pleasure to see the announced proposal on the table to show confidence in the students. Now it's just for Stortinget to reintroduce student management." That's what we're doing now -- we're repatriating the trust of the students. It is good and fully consistent with this government's other commitment to student welfare and quality of education. I remind you that after the government change, we have increased the support for the study in addition to the price increase. The appropriations for student housing have increased — and are added up to twice as many as on average were built under the red-green government. The currency adjustment for loans and grants to foreign students is important for those concerned. And one of the most joyful things has been the law of the right to postponed exams in connection with birth. These are among the issues that show that the government is concerned with the well-being and everyday life of students. A better health insurance scheme, which makes it possible to combine sick pay from the population with a grant from the Loan Fund, is also such an example. The quality and safety of everyday life as a student are important for the success of the studies. The same thing is to be part of a good, strong place of study, with quality-oriented disciplines. Structural work in the UH sector is driven by the objective of heavier professional environments. Work on the Minister of Knowledge’s informed notification of quality in higher education is important for students of today and tomorrow. We need students with clear votes in these debates and the development work. A prerequisite for participating and contributing actively is to be valued and shown trust. Our decision in this matter is such a declaration of trust to the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e230	The central party believes that it is an important principle that students should have a majority in relationships. It has been the central party's attitude all the way and a general principle ever since the establishment of student relations. With the requirement of mandatory membership in a co-operation, it has always been the basis for the students to be responsible for managing the co-operation. This means that students shall have the right to have their own well-being and responsibility for financial management and the interests of students. We believe that the legislative change in 2013 led to a breach of this principle, and that the intention to prevent poor financial management was good enough. It is important that those in student relations are very conscious of the responsibility they assume on behalf of their fellow students. This applies not least to economic disposals. Training in governance is therefore very important also in student co-operation. We therefore support the government's proposal to amend the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e241	On February 27, 2014, I asked the Minister of Knowledge, in a written question, whether he would reverse the changes to the Student Cooperation Act that reduced the students' power in the boards. The minister said yes at the time. Now we're standing here, almost a year later, and the reversal is a fact. The left has consistently opposed the change that called for a two-thirds majority for some decisions, because this is about trust, and this is about democracy. And if you don't think this is an important thing in everyday life for the students, then it's about the trust we show them, it's about saying that it's those closest to the decisions, who know best how it should be managed. We have noted that when that change was implemented, there was great resistance from both student relations, student organisations and several institutions, which was skeptical when it was introduced. We also believe in the Left that this change has not been positive for the student democracy and the user-driven student welfare, which many people have had. So I'm glad that now that there's a new majority on the Storting, we can take this change and reverse it, so that the students can feel that we have confidence in them, that we believe that it's the people who sit next to the issues that can best assess what's right. So it's right, as we have said here, that in most cases it's about getting a broad majority. It'll still be about that. It will still be a goal of steering together, for the common good, but the trust that you took from the students will get them back again. They've also been very clear that this is a desired reversal, and that they're very happy with what's happening now. That's why I think it's very funny that so many people are behind, and I think it's strange that the Workers' Party chooses to stand on what they did at the time, even though they see that there is a strong desire among them to get the changes reversed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e252	I am one of those who have a background from student policy work, and at the University of Tromsø I was very active for a short time – as most students are – in student-active work. In the Student Association in Tromsø, the students themselves had chosen not to have multiples on the board. There have also been periods when we chose not to have the directors themselves, one has in a way chosen to take away the multiples on the board. The point is that it has been selected by the students themselves. The reason we did this was that we saw, perhaps in a self-search, that to make sure that not an ever-changing number of students can lead to the risk of student welfare, we chose to create some schemes that could prevent it. Among other things, when we chose another director, it was a recognition of the competence of our own group. But we're the ones who chose it. Perhaps that's what's the principle in this case: who is it that's going to determine how student relationships are to be governed? This legislative change has its background, which has been an important source of concern for the whole of the communications sector. Relations in Norway are extremely different. Some are big, some are small. Sami higher education, with 159 students, has a significantly different relationship than that of the University of Oslo and all the Akershus colleges, which are probably and will always be the largest intercom, and have a completely different access to competence. What happened in time around this law change, where a relationship was near by going bankrupt, a situation that promised not to know how to keep up, was a reason to look at. And now when we go to a change in the law, where the students again have the majority of the board that can go through big investments, there's still another question: what do we do if a relationship goes bankrupt? That's what I think we're going to have to look at in the future. It's not just a matter of principle, here we have to have a law that works even in bad times. Now that SV has turned around, it is not possible to hide that there was a big discussion in SV when this proposal came up in government in the previous period and was implemented. We were many, to say it like that, who disagreed, we thought that the principle of student-driven welfare is most important, also taking into account the practical aspects of this. We think student-driven well-being must be superior, and then we have to create a law that takes care of all the eventualities that can arise, not that one goes in and deprives students of that right of governance. If you take a historical look at relations in Norway, they were in many ways one of the front runners of the Norwegian welfare state. It was through their scholarship schemes that students themselves funded scholarships for those who did not have equal advice, and it was such a start to work towards education for all – from education for the few to education for all. It was started by student relations and later became public schemes. Same thing on the building block. Thus, student cooperation is one of several examples of how the welfare state has had its predecessors in civil society. Taking as a starting point that students are less competent, that they may not be entirely authoritative and thus cannot form a multiple that can make big decisions, we think we are wrong, but we need a law that takes on the idea that things can happen. We know there are some connections around where things can come up. That's what I think the minister should take with him. Ideally, we should have a law here that not only did something about the principle, but also took care of the eventualities that may arise in time, because the control committee might get a job to do, and then we should have done the job in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e267	The activities of student cooperation were first regulated by the Stortinget Act of the Student Cooperation Act in Oslo of 16 June 1939. The first legislation included: The societal mission of student relationships defined to be: ‘The task of student co-operation is to help the students’ economics and their cultural and physical development during the studies.’ It's beautifully formulated. During the period of the previous government, a change in the law was made that resulted in restrictions on the student's ability to fully determine the operation and structure of student relations. The students lost their sovereign position in deciding how student relations should work to promote ‘their cultural and physical development during the studies’. Student relations manage great values, and they have an important societal mission. It is therefore essential that they are organised and managed in a manner that ensures the sound and optimal management of those resources. On the previous change in the law, several other interventions were carried out that were intended to strengthen student relationships and control the business. I believe that was important and proper grip. I also feel that the sector itself is concerned about operating professionally and efficiently, and sees that this is clearly on the agenda of the forums where the department meets the relationships. I am pleased that the Committee gives a position in line with the government's proposal to repeal the seventh paragraph of Section 6 of the Student Cooperation Act, which requires that decisions on major borrowings, start-up of new business, expansion of existing business with a commercial purpose, or major changes in the internal organisation of student relations, require the conclusion of two thirds of the board's members. I notice that there are some parties that have changed their mind on the matter – SV and the Center Party – and I think that makes sense. To the Workers' Party, which is still concerned: I can rest assured that we will continuously assess whether the Student Co-operation Code contains sufficient safeguards to ensure the ability of communication to produce good student welfare over time. As I said, I believe that many of the changes and fuses that also came into place at the time of the change in the law were correct and therefore have to be retained, and also make it easier to reach the decision we are making today. Ensuring good and equivalent student welfare across the country will also be considered particularly in the context of the ongoing process of structure in the university and higher education sectors. The student participation and management of their own student welfare has been a central element of the student co-operation scheme. In my opinion, today's requirement to join two thirds of the board members in some cases undermines the user management of the students, and therefore it should also be removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e289	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e292	As I said in my speech, it is normal practice in both private and public enterprises to impose higher demands than a mere majority when making important decisions. It's a system that's accepted and that doesn't create a debate. I have personally participated in different boards, and every time I feel that a two-thirds majority is required, something happens with the reinforcement of the board representatives, and that means there are important decisions to be made. I want to ask two questions to the minister. Does the Minister agree that in such important decisions, the contributions and prospects of the other members of the board are important in order to take well-considered and thought-out decisions? The next question is: What assessment has the Minister made when he does not want a two-thirds majority in student relations in decisions such as: does the economic risk increase, compared with other private and public enterprises, which actually have that rule today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e302	The assessment of the two-thirds rule in other businesses I do have largely – except for those in our sector – neither power nor authority to do anything about it, and it is certainly sensible rules and constraints to have. What's special about student relationships is that they've been the students' own business from the very beginning. As the representative of Knag Fylkesnes pointed out, it is possible for students to find out locally that they, for example: shall have a non-student as director or otherwise impose limitations on himself, but I believe that the students must be able to decide for themselves. Answer to question No. 2: I believe that several of the changes in the rules have come, including: with requirements for the competence of the Management Board, this shall be carried out in a good manner. Although there have been problems in some student relations, I do not believe that those problems have been so great that this rule must exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e311	As I was in my post, there are still some challenges in student relations. We know that there are some of the relationships that have challenging economies, and that there can be issues. Since we have a law that regulates this, it is the responsibility of having a good law to provide for eventualities, with us. In that context, bankruptcy is an example where the law is not covering. What happens then? Does the Minister intend to make proposals in Stortinget that go into it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e316	In principle, relationships may go bankrupt, but it is clear that, in reality, if the situation should arise, it will be very difficult to accept. So I also said in my post that we have to constantly assess whether the rules we have are sufficient and good enough to ensure us against, for example. the type of events. There is an assessment by the Ministry, and if we find that changes are needed, for example: To do something about the problem that the representative describes, we will of course come back to Stortingen with it. But I can't say here and now that it's a conclusion we've drawn, I can't.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e321	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e326	Since 1939, students have managed their own welfare services through the possibility of having a majority in the boards of student relations. When interacting with student welfare, it is a good principle that they should be supervised by a student. But it is not just a good principle – it has also given good student welfare. Unfortunately, the principle of user management, which had worked from 1939 to 2013, was left, and the red-green government made sure that students had to thank users. In reality, the requirement for a two-thirds majority is a safety valve against a simple majority of students. There are not many other ways to interpret it than as a clear signal that you do not trust that the students can take responsibility for their well-being. It may not be that any decision on student welfare is too important for students to be able to make decisions for their own benefit and those they represent. The requirement for a two-thirds majority is also no guarantee against poor governance of communications – especially when we know that when one has taken too much risk in the past, it has been done unanimously. Therefore, there is no need for qualified majority voting unless you have no confidence in the students. The right has been against this requirement since the red-green government presented it. We have been opposed because the principle of user management has worked well from 1939 to 2013, we have been opposed because the requirement of a two-thirds majority does not solve anything, and we have been opposed because we trust that students are the first to make good decisions on behalf of themselves and other students. There are several people who deserve praise in this matter. The government clearly deserves praise for proposing changes to the law. All parties on the civil side deserve praise for fighting against the demand for a qualified majority all the way. The centre party, and especially SV, who had the minister of knowledge who introduced this requirement, also deserves commendation for having changed their mind and to admit that it was not right to take the confidence of the students. In the end, it is also in place to boast a little of the Workers' Party, which does not give up, and which is left alone in the struggle against students' ability to control their own welfare offer, despite violent protests and resistance from students and the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e343	We have about 245,000 students at Norwegian universities and colleges, and only here in the Oslo region we have more than 62,000 students. The number of students has grown enormously, and when we look back on history, there is a lot that has happened in Norwegian higher education. In Norway, we have, among other things: World-class student welfare, and we can be proud of that. On one of my visits to the Velferdstinget in Oslo and Akershus, which are linked to interaction, I received in a gift a book on student welfare, a story about how student relations were established. The idea of establishing a welfare offer for students in Oslo came from the students themselves. With the help of politicians, the government and employees at the University of Oslo, this led to the adoption on 16 June 1939 of a law on student relations in Oslo. Today, all universities and state colleges are linked to a student relationship, which is intended to provide welfare services for students: housing, dining areas, kindergartens, health services, etc. Student relations here in Norway have a much wider and, not least, legal and formal role than similar organisations abroad. That at the top of it all is student-driven makes it an outstanding phenomenon in international context. The change we are adopting today, which is really a reversal of the red-green government's restriction of students' influence over their own welfare offers, gets a broad majority. That's very good. It's just the Workers' Party that's stuck to its vision. It is important to ensure that the Student Cooperation Code contains sufficient elements of security, but intervention requiring the membership of two thirds of the Board's members in some cases is not the way to go. It is a pity that the Workers' Party opposes the student's right of self-determination as the guiding principle. In this way, they undermine the students' user management. The decision today means that the students get back the trust they have had from the establishment of the country's first student relations at the University of Oslo and until 2013, when the red-green government changed the law. In that history book, a dark chapter has to be added, but fortunately, students can now again make important welfare decisions on behalf of fellow students with today’s decisions in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e358	This is not the biggest thing in the world, but when the majority say that this is about whether the decisions are to be taken as closely as possible to the students, it has to be said to be a pretty big derailment. Of course, these decisions shall continue to be taken by the Management Board in its relations. The question we are discussing is whether some decisions require a qualified majority. It's known from many organizations. If the principle was that students should have full access to their relationships, there is a lot in the law on student relations that needs to be changed. Maybe the law has to be laid down at all. It's a legal entity of its own governed by the students. In Section 2, it is the actual department that determines whether interconnections are to be established, closed or merged. Why don't you leave it entirely to the students and the relationships themselves? Section 3 states that services cannot be provided to others unless they are carried out in profit, and this is to be done to a limited extent. Why don't you leave it to the students, if that's the way it's supposed to be full of self-confidence in our relationships? Section 6 says that the educational institution should have a representative on the board of directors. Why don't you leave it to the students to decide, if that's the way to have full power? You can't stand here on the pulpit and say that this is what students have to do when you're still in favour of a law of interaction that puts quite clear leads on what they're going to do and how they're going to be composed. So there's a little detail left: should large borrowings, big decisions with long leaders, have a two-thirds majority? Yes, then it will be that if you maximize student representation in the board, you either have to bring one from the educational institution or one of the employees to have a two-thirds majority in order to implement it. That's what we're discussing, that's the microscopic difference between the majority and the minority here. It was the cleaning that was done after it had been messed up. It was necessary. A good job has been done in the relationships, a good job has been done from the department to school and follow up the relationships. But there are great values that are managed. The reason for this is that the law gives the communication a right to charge a fee from the students – the students are obliged to pay this. That's why the obligations to follow some paragraphs of the law come. When we also – some of us – think that an extra claim can be made for a kind of long-termity of large borrowings and big decisions, it is a little wonder that it is the conservative party Right that is now very opposed to such a paragraph. But that this is going to be a big and important principleal matter of students' right of self-determination: it's just not.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e379	I really agree with the last thing that the representative Giske said, it's a little strange that it's the Labour Party that's on one side and the Right on the other, traditionally. For me, the Student Cooperation Act is about a bit of the core of how the Norwegian welfare state is built. There it has historically happened that the Right has slowed down a little, and that the Workers' Party has been a little more creative. And then it's even a little bit more wonderful when it turns around and is completely reversed. For what is the thinking behind many of the welfare institutions built up in Norway? Yes, they are built up in the context of volunteering and maritime organisation. There have been no others who have come in and helped the poor, those who have actually worn seas, who have organized and built structures that have brought them forward, just as the students have been active actors in developing the interoperability structure in Norway, as well as the law. Obviously, there are things here that make you not have complete student board, but that's because the students wanted it. The Student Cooperation Act has not come about because of state overmanagement, but because it has wanted an equal structure – to develop a structure that has managed to create the values we have today. You can manage these values wisely, and the students have shown that you've done it since before the war. By building up the values that lie there today, the structure has always worked. It is part of the way we build welfare systems in Norway. This is a very good example of that. This is the law that students want. And if someone thinks that the law change is insignificant, you can't go a lot in student circles, because this was incredibly provocative for most people who work with student policy, and it's going to be celebrated when it's brought back. So there's someone who thinks this is small, but they're dealing with it, they think it's big. I also believe that it is in place to boast very much of the SV and the Center Party, as I understand it, it was difficult when we decided this last – and true my words: I said this was going to be reversed, and now it is being reversed. It's good for the students, but it's also good for the way we think about how we build welfare systems and the interactions around our student policy – that it's going to be the students' seas that drive us to develop it. It has been shown to work very well in all, most cases in Norway since before World War II. There's no reason why it shouldn't work very well in the future, but it makes the students responsible in that way that it's not possible just to do what's populist and simple, but that you actually have to have responsible choices behind everything you do. I think that makes wiser decisions, and I think it better manages the values that they own together. So this is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e390	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e404	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Bjørnstad, who has the floor on behalf of Mr Thorsen, who is the rapporteur on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e415	This is not the first time the issues raised here are being debated in this Chamber. On behalf of the case rapporteur, I would first like to thank the Left for giving the Storting the opportunity to discuss these important issues again. I would also like to thank the Committee for good cooperation in this matter, which is about getting enough competent and competent teachers in school, and reducing unnecessary time use and bureaucracy in school, so that the teacher's time is as focused on the students as possible. There is also broad consensus in the Committee on the matter, including on the instruments needed to meet the needs of the school. Various proposals are being made in this matter. One is that the government will present a plan to reduce school bureaucracy by at least 25 pst. This proposal is left to the proposers alone. The second proposal, supported by the majority of the Committee, is that the government should ‘propose measures to recruit more teachers from other professions, retain teachers who are in school today, and recruit teachers who work in other sectors for school work’. The minority of the Committee, representing the majority of the Grand Duchy, proposes that the matter be annexed to the minutes. There are various reasons for this, and I expect the proposers and the various parties themselves to present their views in the further debate. By doing so, I believe that I have explained the Committee's common position on the matter and move on to explain the views of the Progress Party. The party is concerned that as much of the teacher's time as possible will be spent on the students and that it is therefore important to remove all unnecessary bureaucracy in school. This applies to both state and municipal requirements. This is why we are pleased that the government has already identified and identified, through the report, reporting and documentation requirements in the school sector, national and local reporting requirements in schools and that efforts to reduce unnecessary demands are already underway. The Government and the KS encourage all municipalities to use the report for a critical review of their own practice of eradicating local time thieves. It is also expected that the project A team around the teacher, which aims to ensure that the teacher will be able to focus more on the learning of the students, will yield benefits. In contrast to the proposers, there is no reason to quantify the percentage of the reduction in time thieves. The most important thing for the Progress Party is, as I said, to release as much of the teacher's time as possible for student-oriented work. Like the proposers, the Progress Party is also committed to recruiting more good applicants for teacher training in order to get more highly qualified teachers into school. We believe that this is well taken care of by the government's efforts on the Teacher Lift and GNIST. It is important to get more people to learn, but the Progress Party believes there is reason to worry that many newly educated teachers stop working in school in a short time. It has been known for years that the lack of follow-up and guidance of newly educated teachers is the reason why more people quit the profession. The party is therefore positive that the government will strengthen and further develop the guidance systems, so that hopefully more well-qualified teachers remain in school. The progress party also has expectations of the 50 million. where the majority of the State budget grants a level of competence for unskilled teaching staff, it will provide more qualified teachers in the school. The Progress Party is pleased that the government has already started work on a comprehensive strategy to raise the status of the teaching profession, among others. through the Teachers' Lift strategy, which facilitates more career paths in school, so that good teachers stay in the classroom, and that this can get more teachers who do not work in the sector back in school. It is important to clarify that the Progress Party agrees with the proposers in most of the content of the case, with the exception of proposal No. 1, which is going to remove 25 pst. of the bureaucracy in school. There is the Progress Party, as I said, concerned with removing all unnecessary bureaucracy without numerical fixing. I also think it is important to show that the government is already doing well in the work proposed in the proposal for a representative, and in the light of this, the Progress Party believes that the proposals are already well taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e438	The working party believes that more and more highly qualified teachers are a prerequisite for the development of a good school. Recruitment needs are high, and new measures are required to ensure access to qualified teachers for the future. I would therefore like to commend the Left, who is promoting proposals for action to meet this challenge. The red-green government launched a series of measures to raise the status and increase recruitment to the teaching profession. An example that has already been mentioned is the GNIST campaign. The GNIST campaign is an awareness-raising campaign, which makes the opportunities and benefits of working in school visible. I have faith in such campaigns, and we see that they work. It is gratifying to see that the search for teacher training has increased since the spring of 2008 and that the overall increase in teacher training has been greater than the general increase in higher education applications. But even though I believe in such campaigns, there is no doubt that we need more measures to succeed. The most important thing is that the job to which the students are going is safe, interesting and exciting. In spite of the fact that the teaching profession has all of these elements, in my opinion, we see that the numbers from among other things. The Central Statistical Office shows that there is a great need for recruitment. There are also many teachers who stop working after a few years at school. In addition, when we supplement this with those teachers who lack formal teacher training but who are already working at school, the picture becomes quite complex. This was the background to our vote in favour of a former left-wing proposal on a specific level of competence for teachers without formal teacher competence. We also need more qualified vocational teachers. That is why we prioritised this group in our draft government budget for 2015, a group that is totally opposed to the government's so-called teacher's vow. The Labour Party will also vote in favour of the Left's proposal this time, so that we get more on the table to recruit more teachers from other professions, keep teachers who are in school today, and recruit teachers who work outside the school. Then we need more roads into school than out of school. We also need several roads inside the school. We need measures such as mentoring schemes and increased use of guidance, both for the new teachers and for the more experienced. We need good school leaders who see the potentials and opportunities of all their employees. But there are some general factors that have to be in place, that drum mostly. The working party believes that the teachers need trust and more time. There is little help with mentoring if you do not feel that you have time and trust in your job. That's why there's a completely natural discussion in the extension of what we're discussing today, also to discuss the device at the teacher's job, including time usage. We in the Labour Party are uncertain whether the percentage that the Left has set for reducing school bureaucracy is the best way to tackle this. How much is actually 25 pst? – and by what? Better use of time for teachers is probably about a lot more than bureaucracy. What about e.g. greater use of other professional groups, which may relieve teachers? That was the background for us in our alternative state budget, among other things. would signify the commitment to the school health service. What about making sure that we get more employees at school, who do the job together – for the benefit of the student? Sure we're going to take something away, but we must not forget that we can also add something: time and resources. We know a lot about the time of the teachers. We have the 2009 Time Usage Selection and the Time Thieves Report, which was handed over to the KS and the department before Christmas. Both give a clear signal that there should be fewer documentation and reporting requirements so that teachers can have more time for their students. The working party expects the government to follow up these recommendations. This should not be a mere awareness-raising report, which is dealt with at random in a dialogue between the KS, the municipalities and the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e459	I will put myself in the line of all the representatives who praise this proposal. It is very positive that the Left and the authors of the motion for a resolution welcome this debate into the Committee and also into this Chamber. I must also say that there has been a sort of climate change in the education debate up against the major elections in 2013 and in the years after that. The new majority has focused very much on their attention and their focus on precisely what we know is most important to create learning in classrooms, and what we know is most important for more students to learn more, namely good, professionally up-to-date teachers. It is that the proposers want to see how we can both recruit more people into school, how we can keep many of those who are in school today, and how we can also get more professionals into school. I believe that the proposals are good, and that there are important debates that the representatives and the Left take up as a party. But at the same time, I believe that this is something that we are already doing. That's something we're in the process of doing, too, because the Left Party in negotiations with the government has been a driver for it. To the right, there was an important election vow before the 2013 elections, and that is something you have followed closely from the Ministry of Knowledge and from the Stortinget in retrospect. A status level for teachers is now being established by looking at teacher training and turning it into a five-year master's education, and by looking at the admission requirements for teacher training, and not least what the status level is needed by giving more confidence to teachers also through the fact that the Minister of Knowledge has clearly said that teachers should have new tools and more powers to prove that they are the head of the classroom. I think we can keep more good teachers just through this trust, and by now working for more career paths in the classroom, so that not the only way to be promoted, to use that word, in school, is to get out of the classroom and become a principal or a principal. This cannot be the case in Norwegian school, and it is therefore positive that you now look at how you can become a specialist teacher and have other career paths in school that allow you to continue teaching. So we're going to recruit more teachers, we're going to get more people in, and this is also closely related to the two previous points. Here it also happens very much exciting locally. You can look at Teach First in Oslo or several other examples and see how to get professionals, businesses locally or, for that matter, the public sector, health and care, into school to participate in education and knowledge development. Then it's worth referring to the budgetary agreement that the Right Party government had with the Christian People's Party and the Left, where 50 million were allocated. to a level of competence for unskilled students at school. It was an important act that, in particular, the Left has been concerned about, and which they deserve to be commended for having been included in the budget. So is it that there's a positive development in Norwegian school by now more teachers come in than it disappears out of school. It's a development that hasn't come overnight, but that's something we're going to enjoy and make sure that continues. The right shares the important ambitions and objectives set out by the Left in this proposal. Sometimes only the measures, or the way in which they are to be implemented, can be implemented. That brings me to the proposal of 25 pst. reduction in school bureaucracy. I'm afraid of two things with such a suggestion. One is that it could be a roof, so it could be going to be 25 pst. And then you can stop. The second is that there might be a goal in itself, that is, you have to reach 25 pst., although there might be fewer measures that should be taken. I think to be perfectly honest, the teachers don't want new measurement numbers from this room. I think they want confidence, and I think they want more time. We're going to do that, but a 25 pst limit can be a tool that has the opposite purpose of what the proposers themselves want. For the right, it's important to trust the teachers, and it's important to listen to what the teachers themselves say, and when they warn that there are too many time thieves in school, we'll look at it. This is why the Minister of Knowledge is doing a great deal of work to clean it up. The strike we saw last fall was not a typical job conflict that was about pay levels or something like that, no, it was a general frustration about time use in school and trust in school. Trust was low, more trust was sought from those who run the school, both locally and nationally. In conclusion, I would like to say that much of the proposal that the Left supports, on behalf of the Right, wholehearted support. I also understand that much of what is being proposed is being taken care of by what is now being done by the Ministry of Knowledge, not least by pressure from and good cooperation with the Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e485	It is easy to agree with the intentions of the proposers in this matter, both in terms of reducing school bureaucracy and getting more teachers to choose to work at school, and in terms of reducing the leakage to other industries. We know that many teachers experience school bureaucracy as a burden in everyday life. There are still new demands for testing, evaluation, reporting, both from central school authorities and from individual schoolleaders and school owners. The sum of all this — and of all that comes with work and bureaucracy — is quickly perceived as a threat to the ability to do a good job in the classroom with the students. It steals time, and it takes the attention away from the individual student. I think everyone sees the need to do something about this problem. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Minister of Knowledge is clear that efforts to reduce the reporting and documentation requirements in the school sector are already well under way, and that this work will be given high priority in the future. I also take it for granted that the Department takes note of the desire of the majority of the Committee to follow up the report on reporting and documentation requirements in the school sector, which was drawn up on behalf of the KS, in cooperation with the Ministry of Knowledge. According to the Central Statistical Office, there are going to be a lot of teachers missing in the decades to come. What do we do with that? What do we do to recruit more people to be teachers? And what do we do to prevent the leakage from classrooms and out into other professions? Today, too many people leave the teaching profession for other jobs, and while we have too many unskilled employees in school, at the same time we have approx. 37 000 qualified teachers who have chosen to work differently from school. The ‘Reserve strength’ report of teachers gives us some answers as to why it is so and what it takes to lure teachers back into catheters and classrooms. It is about the total workload, it is about the possibility of professional development, and it is not least about having enough time for each individual student – the meeting with the individual person. So we know a lot about what's going on to make the teaching profession more attractive, and we know what's going on so that more people will choose to stay in the profession, and the government and the cooperation parties are already taking concrete action. The teacher's vow, with better opportunities for continuing education, is part of it. But we must not forget the need for more time for each student, to see the individual, and then it is important to put in place a national recruitment standard that ensures enough teaching resources in primary school. Today these arrows point in the wrong direction: each teacher is given responsibility for more students than before, and then there will be less time for each student and a good educational performance and a class management. The Christian People's Party will repeat that we support the intentions of the proposers, and we are pleased that both government and cooperation parties, which constitute a majority on the Stortinget, already have good projects in place to address the challenges pointed out in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e502	Like the proposers, the Centre Party is committed to reducing red tape and chasing the time thieves out of school. There is a broad consensus on the problem of increased red tape, and teachers need to be replaced by tasks that steal time from teaching itself. Worse it is to agree on what to pick away – and how to do it. Following the introduction of the ‘Knowledgelift’ in 2006, extensive work was done at individual schools and individual teachers. The curriculum ranged from content-driven to target-driven. All teachers thus had to make their own local curricula. It was an extensive work and led many teachers to feel that the writings took a lot of time. And since the Knowledge promise is a target management plan, it requires control to see if the objectives are met. In addition to national tests, learning support tests, character support tests, screening tests and various international tests, a comprehensive assessment regulation was introduced. This is one of the ‘school bureaucracies’ and ‘time theft’ that Left will have to be removed if they want a reduction of 25 pst. The last time the left raised the matter, the focus was on all the circulars that came from the authorities. Teachers and principals drown in circular writing, said the leader of the Left at that time. Yeah, maybe it's not so weird if there's going to be some circular writing when a new curriculum is introduced. This concerns everything from swimming training and the right to school kissing, the right to the training of children in the reception of asylum, counselling, examination, parental cooperation, changes in the subject of physical training, the subject of work, the subject of vocational training and the allocation of hours, etc. etc. The newsletters will inform the schools of the decisions we take here in Stortinget, which have consequences for schools. I guess it's hardly circular that's the worst bureaucracy for the teachers. In December 2014, the ‘new’ Time Use Committee presented its new report on Time Thieves in school, five years after the previous review. And what did they say? They said the same thing as was said last time: there must be fewer reporting and documentation requirements in school, so that teachers can have more time for students. And what do we do? That's a good one. I understand that the Left has a need to make visible that they believe something different or more than the government, but I am amazed that this proposal was promoted just before they knew that their own government would get a new time-use report. It just seems a little bit sloppy. 14 days ago, the Stortinget dealt with proposals from the Centre Party that could have been a response to some of the time use: converting national samples into sample samples and depriving municipalities of the right to assign their own samples to schools in addition to all existing ones. It voted against all parties, except the Central Party and SV. We have two debates, and the second proposal from the Left concerns the recruitment of teachers. Through the GNIST campaign, the red-green government doubled the number of applicants for teacher training, and provision was made for mentoring after completion of the teacher’s degree, among others. As you know, there are 9 000 non-qualified people in schools today. In principle, it is the responsibility of municipalities to ensure that they take education. The last time we had this discussion, I referred to the Action Plan for Uppland County. It was detailed down at school, where it was found how many non-qualified people were employed, what they lacked from education, and what kind of education they were offered or were doing. Continuing training of workers is a municipal and county task that all municipalities have to undertake. It is therefore essential that the government and the Left ensure that the local economy is good enough to meet their expectations. There is a strong focus on the teachers. Many of them feel that their trust is low. They want time to take care of the students, and they want to trust them to do a good and professional job. All the reporting and documentation we expect to see helps to emphasize that we don't think they're professional enough. And finally, wages have to be proportionate to what they're going to do. If we think teachers have the most important job in Norway, pay has to be the same. It doesn't do that today. It's all about municipal economics again. So time, trust, and pay are three of the most important issues the Center Party thinks must be in place if we're going to be able to recruit and keep teachers in school today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e523	As many people have experienced, increased recruitment and reduction of school bureaucracy are something that the left has been concerned about for a long time, and there is also something that has been discussed in this room several times. After the previous speakers, I think we can safely say that there is broad consensus as to the intention of the proposal promoted by the Left. Nevertheless, we are here today, missing thousands of teachers in school. We know we're going to be missing thousands of years that are coming, and we get regular and many feedback that there's too much bureaucracy and time thieves in school today. So even though we've had this debate before, it's clear that we need to keep it. We have 9 000 so-called non-qualified teachers working at school today. We've got numbers from the SSB that show that a significant number of teachers are going to be missing by 2020 and 2025. We know that we have a large reserve of teachers in other professions who have chosen to do something other than to be in the classroom. This is about several things, which many people have also been involved in. It's about making more people want to be teachers, and it's going very well in this area, but it's also about getting more people to stay in the teaching profession. There's also a job ahead of us. Then it's about getting other professional groups to want to become teachers and get into school. The left has long arranged for us to set up a grant scheme to qualify for a teacher. In particular, this may be relevant for professional subjects, where it is difficult to get teachers. I'm glad we've got a majority in the committee who so clearly want measures to recruit and keep teachers. I think it is absolutely necessary that we focus on this area further. I am also pleased that the Minister of Knowledge has started a work here, but I think we have a long way to go. So this case is not just about recruitment. It is also about bureaucracy and reducing bureaucracy. The centre party was involved in a matter that we had a couple of weeks ago, and I believe quite definitely that if you are going to reduce bureaucracy, it is not useful to take just one and one case and one and a test. You have to view this as a whole, you have to attack the totality. That is why we have also said that we must have a concrete objective. If that's how the Right Cares that once we've reached the target of 25 pst. reduction, not going to do more, I'd rather just say that once we've reached the target of 25 pst. reduction, we're going to talk. If there is still a need to reduce red tape, the Left will also be involved after we have reached the target of 25 pst. reduction. I have also registered that the Minister of Knowledge is concerned about this. I have registered that he has received a report that he has told him to take care of, and I am pleased about that. But we have received such reports before, and we get clear feedback from the teachers who are out there, that such work often runs into the sand. That's what we're concerned about not going to happen. We're concerned that we have to be concrete, and that's also why we think that there's got to be a measure of how much to reduce, so that we're sure there's actually going to be a reduction, and that teachers get more time to be with each student. It's also, of course, about bringing in other professional groups, so that the teacher can spend more time on the student, for example. health sisters, who have been mentioned here. Of course, it's great if we can get more health sisters into school, and we've also been there and given money. We want to free time for the teachers, and we're going to work on it, but at the same time we have to look at all the bureaucracy that has grown over the years, and whether there's anything we can reduce there. Because if we don't set clear goals, I'm afraid we won't achieve the goal of cutting red tape either. Finally, I would like to include the Left's proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e544	The representative Iselin Nybø has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e547	I also ask myself a number of representatives who would like to praise the Left for raising a very important question. But there also stops the rose. This is an important question, but there is something scarce about the proposal, both the time it is presented and its contents. As the representative from the Center Party was in, it's a funny time to come up with such a proposal. It's kind of been a review tone with Left's suggestion that one comes right before anything's going on. And in this case too, one has done it. Then it's 25 pst. Why not 30 pst.? Why could we not reduce the bureaucracy and documentation in school by 30 pst.? Or 35 pst.? What if the others in the committee had suggested it? Or maybe 20 pst.? What is the professional basis for reducing by this type of percentage? What's the consequence of that? I was very interested in working on this matter to ask the Minister what it would mean if a reduced documentation and bureaucracy of 20 pst. - What area would one then have removed? It's a paradox that we had a case just a couple of weeks ago where the Center Party and SV went in to make the national samples for selection tests. It would significantly reduce documentation and red tape in schools and also set limits on the extent to which municipalities can introduce their own surveys and own tests. That's the type of bureaucracy that the teachers themselves point to is a big problem. One should not reduce tests and tests, because it is very important, but the type of documentation such as: shall ensure that a secure natural space is capable of being removed so as to ensure the safety of the students. I think it's a strange theme etiquette left here, where testing, screening and testing are worth -- it's very important, we're going to keep doing that -- while documentation of important things in school is going to decrease. In my time here at Stortinget I have been in many schools. At a school we had a small collection of teachers, where we thought we would have a real workshop: Let's now sit down and get rid of these time thieves that one has in school. My question was, what are we going to do, what can we take out of the school of documentation, screening, etc.? The first thing they came up with was tests and testing, etc. When we started looking at other documentation, the inconsistency became great: yes, we want to get rid of the time thieves, we want to arrest them and put them in prison. But not all – some time thieves we want. Some time thieves want the teachers. Not that all time thieves are negative, there are also many time thieves that we need to make sure that the school is well run. That part of the proposal that deals like school bureaucracy, I think I'm cheap. We'll get back to the next case, one that really will give teachers more time to be teachers, while, of course, supporting all the initiatives of both ministers and others to reduce school bureaucracy. We've also suggested it emphatically here in the hall. Finally, recruitment, which is dealt with most in the form of a note from the Committee. How do more teachers recruit in Norway? The red-green government launched the GNIST project, with a campaign period from 2008 to 2014. During that period, an additional first-choice candidate was awarded 61 pst. In comparison, the overall increase in right - hand education has been 25 pst. In other words, a larger part – a much larger part – of those who are looking for right-wing education has chosen to go in the direction of teachers. But of course this is not enough. You can see how exciting and professionally interesting the teaching profession is, but we have to make sure that it actually is. Then there are a lot of relationships that come in, and the Storting needs to have a balanced relationship with it. We need more teachers, we need a strengthened nursing care, we need to reduce the amount of school bureaucracy, we need to reduce the amount of testing and measurement and the hysteria there, but we need to do it properly and not just with a 25 pst. in the head.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e564	I think a good starting point for this debate is that when we talk about time thieves, that's not in the sense of everything that takes time at school. When we're talking about time thieves, it has to be something negative. So it's probably true, as the representative of Knag County says, there's not necessarily an agreement on what to remove. I initially have three such considerations. One thing is: in this Grindheim report, or the time-twenty report, as it is also called, there is agreement on one thing that the sector – both municipality, school management and teachers – gives clear information about, and it is that the sum of the good intentions becomes too large, that there can therefore be good reasons for individual actions, but the sum of the good intentions becomes too large. Then there's probably more disagreement about what's going to go away, and there might be different emphasis and different judgements. We also see that the time thieves or unnecessary bureaucracy have caused something in the state, something in the municipalities, something in the school and something in how the legislation is practised. The practice of the legislation may also have a great deal to do with the fact that the school, like other sectors of society, has been legalised and juxtaposed. Where, in the past, there may have been sufficient verbal feedback or non-written feedback, there is now an understanding, or at least a practice that has evolved, that more and more writing is being done. The second is that the time-tap work is not something we're going to be done with. It's not like at some point we're going to put a dot and say that now we don't have to work to eliminate time thieves in school anymore, or in the public sector in general. It's a continuous work that every organization has to do. The third is that it is also easy to forget this perspective when new things come, and it is easy – as the representative of the Central Party said – that we politicians, too, impose new time thieves on the school. We'll get, for example. now soon a large and very thorough NOW about bullying in school – the Djupedal Committee. There I expect that there will be quite a lot of proposals for changes in school. It is also important to see those proposals in the light of the discussion on red tape and reporting. Then it's a goal to remove tasks that steal time from the teachers' core activities. That's what we're doing, but of course, the work has to go on. We're in the process of following up on the Grindheim Committee. We have notified that we are reviewing the legislation for assessing the professional performance of the students. In the letter of assignment to the Directorate of Education, we asked the Directorate to carry out a critical review of the GSI, the Primary School Information System, with a view to simplification. We support the project’s recommendation to waive today’s requirements for monitoring and documentation of Norwegian skills for children and young people who have lived in Norway for a short time. We also consider several other changes that Stortinget will be informed about as a result. In addition, it is important how this is followed up. We are now working in the Ministry of Knowledge together with the local authorities' organisation, KS, to create a scheme where those in the sector can make representations and how this work is to be used locally. Because it's not that all time thieves have origins in the state. Many time thieves can also be the source of how to work in the municipality or how to work in the individual school. I would also like to mention that in the government's collective work of removing time thieves, 400 recordings have been made by the country's statesmen. KD is one of the departments that has received the most input into this process. Then there's a very important work going on recruiting more teachers into school. There I would also like to mention the general work: that we have good professional replenishment arrangements, that the school is an exciting job, that we are now piloting specialist positions in the school in selected counties with a view to increasing the volume gradually, I believe is an important contribution to the school's becoming a more attractive job. Then, after the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have also been granted 50 million. SEK for measures of competence for non-qualified staff in teaching positions. The Ministry now introduces an opportunity to apply for a grant of NOK 100000 per year for those who work in teaching positions and want to become teachers, but who lack a teacher training. In the first instance, the scheme shall be limited to school staff qualified for practical training or vocational training. These are employees with valuable skills, but today they can only get temporary employment. Our figures indicate that as many as 10,000 employees at school can be covered by such a grant scheme. In addition, we also continue to work through the GNIST cooperation with recruitment, even if the campaign part of GNIST has been dropped.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e593	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e596	In Denmark, one in ten teachers have left school since the lockout four years ago. The crisis of confidence has caused them to lose motivation and to choose other jobs. During the teacher's strike last year, we saw – and still see – the contours of a similar crisis of confidence in Norway. Giving teachers time and good frameworks is perhaps the most important single factor for both recruitment and maintaining today's teachers. Continuing education, career paths and not least ensuring that computer systems talk together are well and good, but beyond this, what does the Council intend to do to restore confidence and prevent Norway from getting into a Danish situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e601	Thank you for the question. Firstly, I am very pleased that we did not end up in a situation like that of Denmark in Norway. In Denmark, the government, the social-democratic government, which, with the Danish Folketing – that is, what it is called in Denmark – implemented a majority behind it and introduced a new working time system that many teachers reacted very strongly to. In Norway, this did not happen. I think that made sense, and it makes that the conflict, which was hard, ended up with a situation that both parties could live with. I think that was important. So to the continuous work of trust, to remove time thieves and bureaucracy, which I've explained a little bit in my post: if we're going to do this, we can't just work on the overall projects for the learning environment, the school environment, better teams at school, even if it's also terribly important. We also simply have to go through and address critically and identify individual rules and then remove them gradually if the justification is not good enough to maintain them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e608	I think that's right, as the Council of State said in its statement, that working against time thieves is a continuous work, it's kind of not something you're going to finish. The red-green government said that we had to evaluate all the decisions we're making, so I'm glad that the Council of State mentioned it in view of the NOU that's being submitted about bullying, that there's going to be a time-assessment of it. I wanted to ask the Council of State when he wanted to bring a case to the Stortinget based on the new time-use committee from which he was given the report before Christmas, but then I heard a snitch in the Council of State posts, where he was a little uncertain about whether there was any matter at all to the Stortinget, so I wonder: Will time-thefts and what is now being done become a matter that is presented to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e615	In the case of the Grindheim Committee, such as the KS, the local government's organisation, and the Ministry of Knowledge have jointly ordered a report from – otherwise ordered by the previous government – on its follow-up. There's no reason why there's going to be a separate case for Stortinget about it, it'll both take extra time and be unnecessary since it's a matter that the department has ordered. We come back with ongoing briefings on how we work on this in budgetary documents, for example, but there are no plans from my side now on a collective, overall matter of time use in school, precisely because I perceive that there is a very large consensus in this room that this work must be prioritised, it must be worked on, it must be worked on systematically, and that is what the department is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e625	I understand that it may be unnecessary bureaucracy to adhere to Storting's opinions in that context. But it is now time that if the Council of State and the government are now going on, for example. Major changes within GSI, what kind of changes it is now, may want to turn national samples into samples or other types of samples, i.e. larger measures that you might want to implement, I would have considered it natural for the Storting to take part in it on its own matter. If you do not present the whole and an overall overview, I hope that the Council of State can confirm that if there are changes that you believe the Storting should take part in, there will be a matter for the Storting about that kind of change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e630	It is in politics as it is in school that it is not all that takes time that is a time thief. It is never unnecessary bureaucracy to have the right relationship between corruption and government, and it is quite natural that the department, for example, should have. in the budget documents, both in the revised national budget and in the budget paper for the autumn, explain what we are working on, and how we are working on these issues, and then the Storting also has the opportunity to express its opinion on the matter. It also does the Storting through the matters that we are dealing with now, for example. This is the proposal for document 8. Whether you attach it to the protocol or express your view through majority comments, there are signals from the Stortinget that we naturally take with us. That means that the Stortinget will have a good opportunity to discuss and give its opinions on this in a very common way. So I guess I see that there is no one in this room who disagrees that this work is important and has to be done, and that is the work we are doing well, I would say.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e635	I am recording that the Council of State is busy reducing bureaucracy and reducing time thieves, and I think that is very good. The council also sketches some things that he wants to take on to achieve just that. Nevertheless, I perceive that the Council of State is negative to quantify a target for how much reduction we are going to have in bureaucracy and in time thieves. Then I wonder, is it because the Council of State doesn't think we can achieve a target of 25 pst. And does the Council of State have any idea of how much we can do from what the Council of State is planning to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e640	It's not out of fear of percentages in general that I'm worried about numbering a goal, but it's simply because I think it would be terribly difficult to fill it with a real content. If you take, for example: the national legislation, it will be very difficult – what is 25 pst. reduction in red tape there? If you were to point at 25 pst. reduction for the individual teacher, there are great differences from school to school, precisely because very many of what we now call time thieves have origins either in the individual municipality or in the application of the rules or in the practice of the individual school. So I just don't think – although it's a very good ambition, and it's good to be concrete – that it's a particularly appropriate way to tackle the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e645	There is no doubt that there are good intentions both in the department and in the Stortingen to reduce red tape in school. I fully agree with those who say that it's completely impossible to set a percentage when you haven't defined a starting point. There are no concrete standards for measuring – to say – unnecessary bureaucracy. The ambition must be to reduce all unnecessary bureaucracy. I think it was Bjørnstad who said it like this. But now the Council of State has made it a habit to propose things that have very little effect – character requirement 4 that turned out to be character requirement 2, a bully that doesn't change the law, the introduction of rules to lock doors, rules that already exist, and the seizure of PC and phone, rules for it also exist. In his posts, I heard only one concrete measure to reduce the use of time, and it was a screening test for students who have lived in Norway for a short time. Isn't it a little bit ambitious, when you've been sitting in the chair for two years, to have this microscopic change? Where are the concrete measures? Selection is fine, investigation is fine, and dialogue is fine, but teachers live by concrete measures, that's what helps.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e653	I'm not going to spend time on all of the other stuff that the representative Giske has made it a habit to have, except to say that of course I disagree with that. I can mention a couple of the other things that we also do. For example, we have said that we should review the supervisory activities. It's one of the clear advices of the Grindheim Committee. I also believe that there is reason to believe that it is a mandatory screening test in the 1st grade of secondary school. It may not be appropriate to have it there, simply because you have the exam results from primary school that you can relate to, and besides, you have the grades in high school. That's another concrete thing. In addition, there are also several other legislative changes that can be made, but we are now considering them. I am absolutely sure that the representative Geske with his falsification can bring it with him when we also announce them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e664	'Time thief' is a very negatively charged word, and I like the outline that was established, because it spells out a direction of what we're going to work with. The time-twenty reports that have come, and the selection that has looked at this, have listed a lot of things. When the minister says that he wants to live all the time, that will mean all the measures in this report, and that will be a very exciting situation. I guess that's not how the minister meant it. There are some time thieves we actually want, and weighing what types of positive and negative time thieves are out there is a difficult job, also political. I really only have one question for the Minister: Can the Minister say one concrete measure that the Minister has already taken – one concrete measure – that has led to a reduction in the time-twenty – the most important thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e671	I had a fixation in my speech, I can repeat it. Some of these changes are on the way. Regulation for the assessment of the professional performance of pupils, that is the regulation of the Training Act § 3-1 – to simplify it. So in the case of GSI, the primary education information system, there might be some simplification. In addition, to waive today’s requirements for monitoring and documentation of Norwegian skills for children and young people. In addition, I also mentioned in the reply to Giske that we are evaluating the screening test at the first stage. We've said we should review the inspections. And it's just a beginning. This report came to us just before Christmas. We follow it up by going through all state requirements, state guidelines, look at how they work, and see if there's anything that can be removed after a balance, if it's less necessary. What speaks against taking it away is if you spend more time on it than you really get back from information – then it is unnecessary to do it. We have also said that documentation of half-yearly assessment, written proof that it has been given, is also a requirement that can lapse.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e676	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e681	I think this has been a bit of a nice debate to sit and listen to, after being on the committee for a few years. On the one hand, there are many parties that boast of Left's proposals, a bit with a tone like that, as if you were 14 years old and a youth politician, and that it was a nice play. On the other hand, there are two parties that just got out of the government's work party loop that are very provocative that we're promoting this proposal, and that's not the end of what you can say negatively. To put it this way: it is said that it is ‘rapid’ – I think it was the parliamentary expression – that a proposal is being promoted just before the Council of State does anything. Another way to say it is that the Council of States did something right after we made a proposal. And I don't think it's that sloppy, I think it's very wise for the council to start this kind of job -- sail if there's a proposal in Stortinget. If it came just before, you can't have followed very well with the last nine years, because such proposals have promoted in countless amounts over the last nine years and have been downrooted in brawl and brawl. Now things start to happen. Things are starting to happen both in the ministry and with the debate here that gives a different kind of dynamics. I'm really glad that we, for example. in the budget at last got a pot for those who are currently working at school and who lack teacher training. That we now get to it as a grant scheme – as the model the Council of State put forward now – I think I'm very good. So I also believe that there are many good ideas about getting rid of bureaucracy, sail if those who were the most aggressive here that someone suggested had suggestions for more health sisters. Health sisters help both when you've hurt your stomach, when you've broken up with your girlfriend, when Mom and Dad are getting a divorce, or when you've had an infection, but against bureaucracy, I don't think health sisters are helping. There's probably a lot of other things we have to do to get to it. Then it was said that circular writing is not important for less bureaucracy for teachers. What world are you in then, when you know that what might have created the most challenges for the teachers in the last period, there were 121 pages of evaluation rounds that came from the department, and that created an infinite amount of training, schooling, forms and arrangements to get it implemented, and no one really understood what had been there when it was sent out? It led to a lot of meeting time and extra work. Then I realize that people think it's incredibly provocative that someone is setting a goal, and it actually describes Norwegian school and school debate. We're able to set ourselves a goal of bringing down the reporting in the business world, but in school, it's very provocative that someone is setting goals for what we're going to get. Then it is clear that GNIST led to more selected teacher training, but it certainly did not lead to more falls from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e698	Someone's being provoked. I think it is very interesting that representatives also do not tolerate criticism of their own proposals, because as the Council of State said, the appointment of the new time-use committee was made by the previous government, and it was announced that it would be submitted before Christmas, and the proposal from the Left was submitted in October or November. There's nothing in Stortinget, and then it suddenly comes as a surprise to a time-use selection. At least it shouldn't be like this. So the representative named Skei Grande this evaluation circular, which was on very many pages. Yes, it was. There were a lot of circulars related to the new knowledge promise, and it was because there were a lot of changes. And the evaluation criteria should simply go through, because it's a very comprehensive system. I think it might be one of the time thieves that we can at least look at, because there's a way to measure the achievement of goals in the different categories of each subject – whether you've had a talk or delivered a style, or what you've done. So there's a lot that we should get into. We should at least give some signals to the schools about a simplification within just that with evaluation rounds. So I don't want to say that it was wasted, but it's clear that, as authorities, we need to understand that when we introduce new reforms, such as: The level of knowledge, like L97, will be increased in each school. It was at least when it came to the promise of knowledge, which became a completely different reform from what it was in the past. Then the teachers had to make their own local curricula. They do that and they work on it, and for every change we make – an extension of the hour, or what we do – there will be more work for the individual teacher in the individual school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e705	I just need to clarify to the representative of the Central Party that we were not provoked at all. But there was a lot of aggression from the representatives of the Central Party and the SV against this proposal, which I just thought was a little strange. So it was just a thought. I think we've got a lot of positive feedback from most of the parties in this room, and I think most people have intentions that this is something we have to move on to, and that all of the good ideas are received with thanks. It's true that we've moved a lot of power down to school, and power also brings bureaucracy. We have to use all the creativity we can to look at how this can be relieved. I want what takes the time in a teacher's life to be students, not papers. I also think we need to see if we're going to rig our school so much for a fear of being sued ten years later, that we're going to start using the bureaucracy around the teachers to prevent that from happening. I think we need to cultivate the free pedagogue, with the responsibility of the free pedagogue, rather than write down to the smallest detail – I have found many funny circulars in my time as a school politician, there are circulars from the department such as. says what a food package should contain, and over time there is a great deal of detail and creativity from political leadership around what should be in them. But the challenge is when we create reforms that create even more jobs, like this. The implementation of the new assessment circular raised more questions than there were answers. What we have to have at the back of all changes in school is that we should aim to reduce bureaucracy and to cultivate the free teacher – the free educator who can be creative, innovative and think outside the form when working with students, not within the form. I was very happy for the reception from most people. I was just a little surprised by someone's aggression against the proposal, against numbers and all that -- but that's law, that's part of the political debate. But I think this is probably a theme we're going to come back to many times in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e720	I wasn't aggressive at all – I guess that's what's the word here. Being engaged on behalf of the students around the country here, I hope no party is starting to look down on – I think we are, and I notice that the committee is. So if the representative Skei Grande is still going to be in debates on the KUF committee, I think she'll experience it again. When it comes to the contribution to Skei Grande – when we first have a party leader here – the big elephant in the room is in this case, the thing we had for two or three weeks ago. These are national samples, which have led to a comprehensive system around Norwegian municipalities, followed by different types of surveys, tests and tests. Teachers report that they are the great thieves of time. This means not only extensive paperwork, but also the need for teachers to adapt their teaching to the tests, tests and surveys. It would be interesting to get a post from the party leader in the left, and it would be interesting if the left could now signal that they're going to turn around, because they voted against the proposal from the centre party and SV to make national samples for selection tests, which would really take away time thieves in the Norwegian school. One cannot say on the one hand that one is against time thieves and paperwork when only a few weeks before has voted against a proposal that would really sabotage that kind of proposal. It would be interesting to get an explanation from the leader of the Left Party if they do not support the proposal of the Centre Party and SV to make national samples for selection tests.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e729	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e732	I'm apprehending the chance, because this is about the view of the way we're going to govern the school. From my point of view, educators should have a great deal of freedom with regard to ways of working, but we should check that the job is actually done. Then a teacher, who has a head of department, must be able to go in and see how the job is done by each one. And if you're going to give that freedom to the pedagogue, if you're going to find the methods you want, the pedagogy you want, and the way you're going to work towards a goal, I'm going to give them that freedom. But we need to be able to have some control mechanisms for how the job is done together – as a principal, and as a leader – and for how to work with each student. That's why I think it's between the two that have to be cut in red tape – when we're going to control how it's going to work, when we're going to document everything that's happening in any class situation – that's where we're going to go in and make changes. That's where we're going to go in and do the cuts. And then we're going to steer by setting goals, but also through leaders who check if the job is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e737	The representative, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e741	It was very interesting and clarifying, an explanation from the leader in the left saying that we should actually check the teachers – check that the job is done. Having control mechanisms is what is behind national tests — in stark contrast to what was said in the posts that were held here in the hall when we discussed the national tests. It was stressed that the national tests were very important, because it was learning-supporting tests that were to build up under the knowledge that the students were to acquire. So it's not this, it's the control mechanisms that form the basis of the national tests. We're going to check that the teachers do the job they have, or what we think they should do. That was clarifying.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e748	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e751	I want to thank the leader of the left for his answer. One should control how the job is done. You should leave it to the teachers. But if there's something that affects the way teachers work, it's just testing. That's what shapes the way a teacher teaches. When parents in Oslo School tell them that their 8th grade kids have 300 samples – sample tests – and screenings over a year, they know that it affects the way the teachers work, and the way paperwork is done. It never answered the Left Leader. If necessary, one can interpret her in the sense that this is entirely right, that there is only evidence of the success of natural sciences, health and environmental conditions. There should be no documentation, but there should be a control over the instruction. Then I simply don't understand the left's education policy anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e756	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e770	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e777	I would first like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. It's a committee that works very well. Even if we sometimes struggle with temptations, it's a good mood. I would like to thank the Committee for that. We have come up with an option that clearly shows that everyone is busy getting a good deal of room for action. Everyone wants to give their teachers more time. The difference is that someone wants to go further and establish national standards. Others will ask the government to assess the introduction of national standards. The Labour Party and the Center Party want the government to assess it. The Christian People's Party wants to establish national standards for the smallest classes, while SV, my party, wants to establish general national standards for the number of teachers per student at school level. Teachers in primary school love their job, but time pressure causes them to be lost for strength, and one in five people think about quitting. According to a major study from NTNU Societal research, three out of four primary school teachers enjoy the job very well and found it hard to help children and young people learn to develop. The paradox is that at the same time every five teachers often think about leaving the profession, and many do so in practice. As in the case of school dropouts and continuing training, the dropout in the teaching profession starts early. Too many stop before they're extinct, and especially many end only a few years after they've become a teacher. So the drop-out rate is increasing again among the older teachers in school, and few of them are in the profession until they are 67 years old. We also look at the learning space around the country. Experienced teachers often say that young people come and go, and that older people end up early – and again we are here, the 50-year-olds. There is perhaps one more image you have seen. So we don't have a problem getting applicants for teacher training. The challenge is to create so exciting and professionally challenging jobs that they become in the profession. What makes NTNU research interesting is that they use both qualitative and quantitative methods, i.e. one has talk with teachers as well as one has collected data. What the researchers point to is a hopeful and at the same time gloomy paradox in a combination of teachers – well-being and high levels of exhaustion. The well-being comes out of the possibility of working with children and young people, helping them to develop as human beings, professional and social, and here autonomy, autonomy, is being developed as especially important. That's where it happens, the relationship between the teacher and the student. It's in many ways the nucleus of the knowledge society. When this meeting between learners and students works, when both learners and elephants get good employment, when both are motivated, when the teacher is capable – then the potential of human beings is enormous. It can help erase social differences. It can create geniuses. It can help create healthy people who care, who take responsibility for others, and who potentially decide whether we can go hopefully into the future or not. So it's exhaustion, the time pressure, what's being said is the desperate cause of stress and exhaustion. 94 pst. states in the «survey» of the research that they are exhausted by all the tasks that remove the emphasis from the teaching, from this relationship between the teacher and the student. Some of this has been discussed in the previous debate, but it is behind this debate. If one takes the local views as an expression of what is happening in our country, one in Lierposten from 15 January sees that despite more and more elephants, the municipality will cut 20 million. kr in the school sector. The teachers are warning. Hardanger Folkeblad December 17th: It is suggested to cut the number of teachers at Odda elementary school. The parental selection fears the supply of the children. Telemarksavias December 12th: Last year, Notodden shaved away ten teacher settings, this year, eight more – and more, and so on. I think it's time we went through some superior national standards that protect the meeting between teachers and students. I think that might be the starting point for people to be seen, that we can really give customized training a content, and that we can get rid of the decline in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e796	Does the representative wish to take up the proposal of the Socialist Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e799	Yes, I'm addressing the proposal of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e804	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e807	There is a broad consensus in this room that early efforts are essential for students to be able to master the basic skills in a good way. It's about learning how to read, write and calculate early, so that they're ready to take on further education and what's waiting in the workplace afterwards. And it's not that the foundation is just laid in the first years of school, no, it's actually so that the foundation is laid for the very first years of a child's life. That is why I am proud that the red-green government has invested in kindergartens. Kindergartens play an important role in talking about early interventions, and several studies show that kindergartens play a major role in the development of children. In particular, the role of kindergarten when we talk about developing children's languages is important. As a parentheses here, we can mention that some of the explanation that Finland did a little worse on the last PISA studies was that fewer of the children who had taken the test had gone to kindergarten. But the representative proposal we are discussing today is about early school efforts, and I want to commend the Christian People's Party for being concerned about this. The working party has always had a special look at the first years of initial training. That's why we were focusing on expanded hours of basic skills in childhood, and we provided more employees at school. We also implemented many measures from St. meld. No 16 for 2006-2007, and ‘there was none left’. But we can't just live on history and old fun. New policies and measures need to be taken on the ground. That's why we proposed in our alternative state budget to start the run-up to 1 billion. kr for early school effort. We want a better system than today, that captures, that deploys measures, people and resources early to make sure that students learn to read, write and calculate. It has been called a'reading, writing and calculation lift', but it might as well be called an 'early effort lift'. There is a certain danger that this debate will end with us – imaginatively, well-noticing – hitting each other in the head with one and the other research report showing one and the other whether class size and teacher density are important for school learning. Such a debate does not move mountains in any way. For the research reports crack, and at least I dare not say that the fasitant response to more education in school alone is about national standards and group size. But what we can agree on is that the teacher is important. Yes, several of us often repeat that he is not just important, but that it is the most important resource in school. Then it's natural to think that it has a meaning that we have access to a sufficient number of this important resource. It can be solved in many ways, but it is the municipalities that are school owners and that employ teachers. The municipal economy is therefore crucial for the ability of municipalities to give priority to schools, to give priority to early work and to employ more teachers. Therefore, I am concerned that the KS budget survey advisers before Christmas replied that it was more difficult to budget for 2015 than before. In several municipalities, this led to cuts in school budgets, so I am even more concerned that the government's municipal structure does not take into account the challenges facing municipalities, a scheme that forces the municipalities to cut school rather than hire more teachers. I think it's a pity that there was no majority for the Workers' Party community that would give the municipalities over 3 billion. and better opportunities to give priority to the school and to facilitate early action. Today it is random and varied whether the municipalities have the opportunity to follow our message from this pulpit about prioritising early efforts. We therefore support the intentions of the Christian People's Party's proposal to ensure that resources are set aside for early school work, and we therefore want to assess a standard of teacher's density in school. I therefore promote the Workers' Party's and the Centre's proposal in the position that the government returns to the Stortinget with proposals on how a standard of teacher's density can be introduced at school and municipality level.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e820	The representative Christian Thinning Bjørnø has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e823	The proposal and the proposers are based on a desire to provide students with adequate teaching resources early in school. It's an ambition that I think the committee can quite unanimously stand behind. It is also one of the reasons why the proposalers' own party, the Christian People's Party, in the budgetary agreement with the Right, the Progress Party and the Left, were given more resources to secure resources earlier in the school run. That being said, the proposal now being promoted involves something quite different from increasing resource use in the past, and the Right is very critical of adopting such a provision, i.e. a state-set standard for how many students there should be per teacher in a classroom. Such a suggestion would fit nicely if all the schools were equal, lay exactly the same distance from each other, and all the students had the same challenges. Norway is not like that. One could then run the risk of being in a situation — if the Stortinget were to adopt this norm — where two classes are available at the same time, where one class has more students with learning difficulties, and where the principal, together with the teachers, has invested extra resources to help the students, and where the students in the other class are learning well and there is no need for additional teaching resources. If we at Stortinget adopt a state-wide standard on the number of students per teacher, the principal will have to go into the class where extra resources have been put, take that teacher out of that classroom and put him in a class that doesn't need the extra teacher. That, I believe, is a somewhat accurate school policy. There is only one purpose in making a norm, regardless of whether you break it down at class level, at school level or for that matter at municipal level. It's that you want to override local priorities. We know what creates the most learning in the classroom. It's important to have enough teachers, and it's important that they have enough time to follow up the students, but that's not what matters to learning. The most important thing is that we have professionally updated and motivated teachers in the classroom. Norway, in relative terms, has a rather high teacher density compared to the countries around us. This does not mean that we should not listen to the concern that teachers report from school, that time is not running out, and that they still feel that they are not being followed up well enough. That's why we're doing a lot of work both on recruiting new teachers, on keeping good teachers in school, and on cleaning up time thieves. But when we ask ourselves what we should prioritize from this room, I think it's very strange to say that we should give priority to a teacher's density standard in a country that has relatively high teacher's density, a norm that would also mean totally overrule the local discretion of a principal and the other teachers at that school. We from the government parties Right and Advance Party now join with the Christian People's Party and the Left and pay a lot of the bill for, for example. further training of teachers. There is one way to influence local school owners to give priority to continuing training of teachers. But again – there is a big difference between giving a carrot and prioritizing the most important thing first and creating a state-set norm to trump the judgements of the local council or principal. This position is well known, both from the proposers of the Christian People's Party and from SV. The new thing is that the Labour Party seems to have completely changed its position on this matter. In the programme on which the Workers' Party was elected in 2013, and on which the representatives who are now in the Chamber have been elected, they say: ‘Communities must have the freedom to manage the resources of those schools that need it the most.’ It is such a good wording that I would like it to be included in the Right Programme. But what the Workers' Party is now saying is that they're asking the Council of State to come back with a case about how to introduce a government-determined norm for a division of how many students there should be per teacher. It could have been possible to get an answer from the Workers' Party in this room today to the question of whether they have left the position that stood in their decision-making programme – which has probably been adopted with great support from the Workers' Party's own local politicians, who are the ones who have the shoe on and who know where the problems lie in their municipalities – and whether they think we should override it with new splits and norms. Finally, I would like to comment that the representative Thinning Bjørnø pointed out that we should not stand and beat each other in the head with research: well, I am also using research-based school policies, and I think it is interesting to look at what creates the most learning. But if you don't want to beat each other in the head of research, I think it's special that the Workers' Party has agreed to a note that refers to one research report, which is not supported by other research reports, and shows that it's kind of the fascination for what we're going to do in Norwegian school. That's not how we create a knowledge-based school, and that's not how we make sure that more students learn more.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e850	First, I would like to thank the Christian People's Party for promoting this proposal for a representative. For the introduction of a national provision setting a limit of 16 students for the average group size in normal hours of 1 to 4. steps and 24 students for 5 to 10. class, there are different reasons why the Progress Party does not support this. I'll come back to that later. The party agrees with the proposers that early school interventions have not made significant changes in schools, even though a number of measures have been taken, such as: educational assistance, school fruit, physical activity, cultural school provision and the increase in hours at the lowest levels were introduced at school. Despite this, the share of special education is three times as high at the 10th stage as at the 1st stage. The party believes that it may indicate that a waiting and seeing attitude is still present in school, and that instead of appreciating a student early and providing organized education, many teachers are dwindling with this, so that the student gets a lot of knowledge during the first years of school, which means that special education needs to be given late, preferably in high school. Poor basic skills are propagating in high school and are the reason many students are leaving school and one third of the students are unable to complete high school in five years. The Progress Party considers it important to follow-up the St.melding measures. No 16 for 2006–2007 on early efforts for lifelong learning, and the Progress Party welcomes the follow-up by the government to the Communication with concrete actions. The Progress Party does not support the proposal to introduce the national provision for teacher density in primary school. There are several reasons for this, including: clarifies the research in this area. The theme ‘Teacher density’ is taken from among others: in one of the world's largest school and learning outcomes, «visible learning» by John Hattie. He writes that of the around 100 studies conducted in classroom studies and outcomes, no one shows a correlation between increasing teacher density and better student outcomes. The government parties, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, recently held a seminar on special education. There, among others, Professor of Education at the Hedmark High School, Thomas Nordahl. He underlined that there is no coverage in any research he knows, which suggests that increasing teacher density will improve school outcomes for students. Professor Nordahl argued that there are a number of other issues involved, and the most important thing is the quality of the teacher. It's better for the students to have one good teacher than two mediocre or bad teachers. He also suggested that increasing teacher density is the most expensive measure you can take in school, and that it is one of the measures that research shows has the worst effect. In addition to the economics of research that supports increasing teacher density, I would like to remind you of the debate we just finished here in the Chamber. It was emphasised that projections made by SSB tracks showed a significant shortage of teachers in Norway by 2020-2025. In addition, there are already many non-qualified teachers in today's school. The introduction of a national standard of teacher’s density may have a negative impact on schools. As Asheim's representative explained in an excellent way, the consequence may be that the school owner sees the need to move resources from one school with the need for teaching skills to a school that already works well, only to meet the requirement. The Progress Party believes that the government’s educational commitment, which will allow more than 5,000 teachers this year to take part in further training, along with the government’s various recruitment measures, will ensure that the school is provided with more well-qualified teachers who will carry out early schooling. I would once again like to thank the Christian People's Party for raising the debate, although the Progress Party believes that there are other solutions that need to be found to solve the challenge of early schooling than a teacher's density standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e873	Norwegian schoolteachers do a great job every day, but many of them also tell of some challenges in their working life that we politicians have to take seriously. So many as three out of four teachers experience that they have too little time for the individual student. And when you have too little time for each student, I know from my own experience that it's hard to follow up the students as much as a student would like. It becomes more difficult to adapt education to the needs of individual students. It will be difficult to ensure that both the student who might be a little ahead of the other students in the race, and the one who is struggling a little bit more than the others to crack the reading code, get the help they need to develop further. Everything suggests that teachers have less time for the students now than before. Because even though we have relatively high teacher density in Norway overall, ordinary education has been characterised by relatively small teaching resources in the last 15 years. The classes get bigger, the individual teacher gets responsibility for more students than before. And when you get responsibility for more students, it just becomes less time for each student. The result is that more students fall off the load already during the first years of school. There are several students who do not benefit adequately from ordinary teaching because teachers simply do not have the capacity to provide the required follow-up and there are several students who are in need of special education. With the exception of the last two school years, the proportion of pupils with single decisions on special education has increased steadily over many years. The ‘Special Education — Drivers and Dilemma’ R & D report, published by the KS in 2012, looks precisely at this link between the allocation of resources in schools and the need for special education. One of the conclusions is that low teacher density provides less adapted training. In many places, one is inside a vicious circle. The resource situation in ordinary education leads to an increased need for special education, and the increased need for special education further drains ordinary education for resources, which in turn creates an increased need for special education. That's this vicious circle we have to try to break. We need to give teachers more time for each student so that the teaching can be adapted to the individual's needs. We have to seal the knowledge holes of the students when they occur. Then we have to have more of the good teaching resources into ordinary education, and then we have to be able to put the effort in early school and avoid students waiting for many years before they get the help they need. Today we put in the shock too late. We spend three times more on special education in the 10th step than we do in the 1st step. We repair instead of preventing. We use enormous resources to try to catch the students back in when they get older, instead of making sure they don't fall off the load when they're smaller. We are already doing well in budgetary terms. I am very pleased that the cooperation parties agreed to grant 200 million. KR marked several teacher positions from 1 to 4. class steps in the 2015 budget. And 200 million. kr is the half-yearly effect, so the annual effect of this investment is about 480 million. kr. Now, the Christian People's Party is following up by proposing a national standard for school-level teacher density which means a maximum limit for the average group size of 16 students in ordinary 1–4 education. class step. This will give teachers more time for each student. It will provide greater flexibility and better opportunities to adapt education. It's not a rigid system, like the old class divisions were. This is a model that will make it possible to make reasonable adjustments, such as: putting two teachers into the classroom where it makes sense, or dividing the classes into even smaller groups when there's something that speaks for it. In order to prevent resources from being extracted from the other class steps, we propose a corresponding limit of 24 students between 5 and 10. steps. This is a measure that will strengthen teachers and provide them with a better working life. It'll make it easier for them to succeed in the classroom. But, above all, it is a measure that will ensure that each student receives a better follow-up, that fewer falls off the load, and that more people can experience success in their own schooling. I present this Christian People's Party proposal in the vote. Subsidy, the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e893	The representative has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e896	First, I would like to thank the proposers for putting an important issue on the agenda. It is a theme in which the Christian People's Party and the Centre share both the perception of the needs and the arrangements of the instruments. The centre party has been talking for many years about the need for more teachers over several hours, so that teachers will have sufficient time to organise the teaching for all students. It is politically and professionally trained and decided that greater focus on early school interventions could prevent students from falling from late school, and that learning difficulties they had to have early schooling should not grow larger. However, there is little to agree on principles and objectives unless they are followed up in practical policies and actions. The school's ability to meet the expectations of a good school depends primarily on the quality of education and the development of individual schools and classrooms. If much has been done to strengthen early work, much remains to be done before the education system is able to meet the needs of each individual student at the earliest possible time. The education system continues to reproduce social differences, and there are still many students who do not get the help they need early in the education cycle in order to thrive, learn and experience mastering at school. Unfortunately, contrary to political leadership, the proportion of pupils with special education continues to increase beyond the educational cycle. There is a broad political consensus that the core of teaching is about the relationship between teacher and student. The good meeting between the teacher and the student creates motivation, mastering and learning. It is essential for early efforts that teachers have the pedagogical and professional skills needed to meet each student and her needs. In addition to competence, time is an important factor for early intervention. The right has tended to push John Hattie's studies in front of him, but now it was the Progress Party that did so in its intervention in this debate on teacher density. It's like the quality of the teacher is more important than the size of the group. But the government parties don't read Hattie's entire research, they take a shortcut adapted to their own priorities. Because what Hattie says is that if there are two teachers in the same class, or you have a group of fewer students, there are more opportunities to operate with more varied and adapted education. I actually don't think you need to be a scientist to understand that either. That's why the number of students per teacher is important. One-to-one education is actually the most effective thing – but none of us want it. Studies show that small classes have a positive effect in terms of the relationship between the number of teachers per student and learning outcomes. A new, comprehensive study on class size, published by the US National Education Policy Center at the University of Colorado in 2014, concluded that class size has a major impact on pupils’ learning outcomes. The time thief survey carried out by the research foundation Fafo on behalf of the Education Association in 2009 showed that three out of four teachers thought they had no time to carry out their duties properly. As noted in the setting, therefore, teachers’ organisations have called for a resource standard in primary school, a requirement that both the Parent Committee for Primary Education and the Student Organisation support. The central party therefore shares the Christian People's Party's concern as to whether the teachers have enough room for action today, and the rules of the day provide guidelines for the number of children in the class. The centre party is busy listening to the teachers, who have long wanted to increase their teacher's density. Alternatives to a class-level learning density requirement are the setting of a requirement either at school or at municipal level. We are not prepared to quantify figures for such a norm, as the Christian People's Party and SV propose today, but believe that this must be decided by the Stortinget after a thorough investigation. We want an investigation, not least considering how this will affect smaller schools and small municipalities. The fact that the centre party is not involved in a concrete numbering of a resource standard in this round is because we are unsure whether the effect of setting the standard number where the proposers have proposed is correct. As we can see, there are several suggestions on the table today. We therefore want a matter for Stortinget about this. We know that the Dovre municipality has had a good effect on the measures they have taken. They have different norms for different types of teaching hours. This must also be seen in the case that Stortinget wants. Our goal is that all students should be able to take out their potential in school. When we reach the goal of early mastering, we give content to the words 'early effort'.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e924	Now we've just had a debate that went on with the increased recruitment of teachers in school, and I perceive that we're quite unisonous about getting more teachers in school. As many people have been involved, both in this debate and in the previous debate, we have 9 000 so-called non-qualified teachers working at school today, and we have numbers from the SSB that show that we want to have significant teaching shortages in the years to come. I am genuinely concerned that if we introduce a norm, we get more non-qualified teachers into school – that this is a reform for non-qualified teachers in school, and I think that is very unfortunate. Because we know, and here I think we all agree, that the formal competence of the teachers is important to the student's learning outcomes, and therefore it is not desirable to fill up our schools with adults who do not have learning skills. In addition, such a norm may have some quirky and unintended consequences that I think Hierres Henrik Asheim has explained well. But at the same time, I am pleased with the budgetary unity that we came up with with the government parties and the Left and Christian People's Party, where 200 million were added. kr for enhanced teacher effort in 1–4. steps. I hope that the Council of State will set up that allocation in a way that will enable us to see whether the additional teaching resources that come in are actually teachers, or whether there will be many non-qualified as a result of that reinforcement, because we can take important lessons from that. I also hope that after a while we can see what will be the results of such a reinforced effort – of these means that we have now granted. Is it better learning outcomes for students? Are those good teachers, and not non-qualified? I think we're going to be behind the budgetary priorities that have been made, and look forward to the results that it might give, but to setting a norm number now I think can have very unfortunate consequences given the great teaching shortage that we have today and that we are facing in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e933	This is not primarily a discussion about whether more teaching positions can be good or not. There may be some disagreement about how to best use more teaching positions, but that's not the main thing in this case, either if you're going to have early work in primary school. I fully agree that early efforts are crucial, and there we must do more. The discussion is, are we going to have a nationally governed norm? The general picture is that primary school teacher density — measured as the average group size — has been stable since the early 1990s. Then there are some things that can cause change, for example. that very many small schools have been laid down, but that's the overall picture. The average group size is calculated in the primary education information system, GSI, and shows that group size 2, i.e. group size in ordinary education, the last 10 years have ranged between 16,7 and 17. The autumn of 2014 was 16.8. The Training Act requires all classes to be pedagogically sound. It presupposes concrete professional judgement — in other words, confidence in the sector. What is proper depends on many factors, such as: the subjects in which it is taught, the structure of teaching, the assumptions of teachers and pupils and the physical framework. The school today also has a regulatory requirement to conduct school-based assessments, such as: This means assessing and deciding whether group sizes are suitable for students to benefit from training, taking into account the objectives of the curriculum. The local discretion may again be reviewed by the County Board of Supervisors. Here, then, it is trusting in the sector and also trusting in local democracy. According to the Training Act, the municipality must ensure that the adapted training in Norwegian, Sami and mathematics, among others. involve particularly high levels of teacher density and that it is particularly targeted at students with poor reading and accounting skills. What is done in this field cannot be seen independently of the government's commitment to continuing training of teachers, class management and, in particular, school manager training. A little bit to the discussion about the number of teachers in the school: The government has chosen to continue the pilot scheme that the previous government had, with 600 additional teaching positions broken down by need criteria, and that after the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the municipalities will receive 200 million fresh – 480 million from the autumn of 2015. kr in full year-on-year work – for teaching positions of 1–4. steps. However, there is a difference between this and the numbering of a national binding norm. There are many factors that can influence what students learn. Neither Norwegian nor international research has a strong link between teacher density and learning outcomes, and it is also worth noting that it is not the case in Norway that municipalities with large group sizes make it worse for example. national tests. We also know from research that increased resources do not automatically lead to increased professional student performance. Of course, resources have something to say, but if it was the case that in Norway we could just pay for a better school, then we should be even better off having fewer challenges than we have. Even in studies that show the effects of resource levels on results, the effects are small compared to the effects of other instruments. This, as one of the representatives pointed out here, can also be due to the fact that the teaching system often does not change even if the size of the class is reduced. However, there is research evidence, as the Christian People's Party points out, in order to say that the reduction in group size can be beneficial for certain groups of students. For students with low educational attainment levels and thus perhaps — at least statistically — a lower starting point, and for students in the lowest years, some studies show that reduced group sizes can be effective for learning. The funds that the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government parties now grant for teaching positions in the nursery will, of course, be used for this very purpose. But I also believe here that having a general resource standard is little accurate and, in the worst case, can lead to resources being moved from places where there is a need for it, to places where there is no need for it. It is also an ambition for this government to increase municipal freedom of action and to acquire larger and more robust municipalities. There is also one side of this matter. There are also some practical challenges about this. Recruitment crisis has been mentioned, and it is one of the most important. Finally, I would like to say that I also believe that what they have done in Dovre, and projects that are in several other municipalities to bring down special education and, instead, to strengthen ordinary education, are more than worth looking at further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e959	I interpret it so that the purpose of the representative proposal from the Christian People's Party is to ensure that the school has sufficient framework to ensure the principle of early action. The last CS budget survey showed that the budgets of the Council were more difficult to budget in 2015 than in the past. We see that this again leads to cuts in the school budgets. One of many examples is right-wing Stavanger, where it is proposed to cut between 60 and 70 teaching positions this year. What will the Council of State do to prevent municipalities from being forced to cut school budgets in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e968	Unfortunately, it is not new that some municipalities choose to reduce their school budgets. I was recently in the Workers' Party controlled Skien, as both the representative and I know well. There they have also reduced the number of jobs in school in recent years. Then it is important to have a municipal scheme that is responsible and that is good for the municipalities. Local politicians will continue to have to give priority to them, choose between different interests and give priority to school resources. But it is a decision that I believe, like the Labour Party, that local politicians must take. I also believe that the municipal budget that we have delivered for 2015, together with the cooperation parties, is good. It is in line with the municipal structure that has been in the last few years from the red-green ones, which allows municipalities to prioritize school, but of course there is no guarantee that all municipalities do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e975	Does the Minister of Knowledge think that the municipal structure of the bourgeois government is good enough for the municipalities to give priority to schools when we see these figures – that two thirds of the councillors said they had to cut their school budgets? I guess that's proof that the community structure isn't good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e980	The answer to the question about the municipal structure is good enough to give priority to school, is yes. That's good enough. But that doesn't mean you don't have to prioritize locally. Of course, difficult balances need to be made between different good measures. It can also be seen that, even though the councillors' proposals can mean cutbacks in school, there are several municipalities where the elected councillors say no, rather we want to reduce in other areas. It's not new that you have tough priorities locally. That's the way it was for most of the years under the red-green. And the municipal structure we've supplied is not that you can afford everything you want, and you don't have to give priority. But it's well in line with the arrangement that the municipalities have got in recent years. In the Municipal Report, it was even pointed out that Jan Tore Sanner was one of the more modest state councils, perhaps sub-communicating that his arrangement was even better than what emerged.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e987	When the old classifications were removed from the law in 2003, these figures were still to be used as a minimum standard for the allocation of resources at school. But when our representative in the church, education and research committee, Anders Tyvand, last year asked the government if the department had an overview of whether this was being observed around the municipalities, the answer was no. Nor was the Stortinges Investigation Section able to find such an overview, even after obtaining further information from, among others. Directorate of Education. Nevertheless, there is much information to suggest that classes in Norwegian schools are increasing. Thus, the size has determined what should be the minimum standard for the allocation of resources at school, but the responsible school authorities do not know whether this is being complied with or not. My question, then, is what the Council of State will do to get such an overview, and what he will do as the highest person in charge of the school in Norway for municipalities to meet their obligations, so that all students across the country can receive an equivalent school offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e996	We have an overview of the class size, to which I referred. It is also true, however, that at the time of the decision by the Storting in 2003, that the classifications were to be taken out of the law, it was also said that the previous classifications were to be based on the minimum level of resource allocation. In 2013, there was a new section 8-3 of the Training Act, where the Department was allowed to establish regulations on the ratio between teacher and student. That means that we need to take a new legal assessment, which we are now in the process of doing, and if there is new information there, of course, the Storting must also be informed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1003	It's nice that we're excited about what a do on Dovre. It's led by an avid centre party rapporteur, so I think it's a good example to use. Dovre has halved her need for special education in a few years because they are betting on meeting the students' needs early, and here it is about money that was initially allocated under the red-green municipal budget, and that has been followed up further. They have a two-teacher system with different priorities, depending on the subject, so this isn't always exactly the same. They have combined it with skills enhancement and educational arrangements at school, and the results show that it works. I wonder how the council will explain the good results of the Dovre municipality if it has nothing to say how many teachers they are per student.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1011	It's not like it doesn't have anything to say about how many teachers you are per student, or – it's easier to say – how many students you have per teacher. If you have very large classes, e.g. 35-40 students, it very much limits the kind of teaching methods that the teacher can use. But there are very few students in ordinary classes of over 25 students – very few students do. I think the success in Dovre is because they've been thinking systematically. They've been thinking, why do we have so much special education? Is there any number of those who have special education who could have been trained in the ordinary classroom? Then they've managed to bring down the special education, and at the same time they've kept the resources in school and put on a little extra. I think that makes a lot of sense. I agree with what others have pointed out here, that we still have some major problems in special education in Norway. There came a big message under the red-greens, who probably didn't solve the problems, to say it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1020	When you hear the input of the Council of State, you understand why the government budget put forward by the Right and the Advance Party did not contain a single measure for increasing teacher density in school. There was nothing more for teachers, there was nothing more for special education; there was no school measures at all, except the promise when it came to continuing education. The other was small money. The big money went to tax cuts, and we see that the community economy leads to a lot of kutter in the number of teaching positions. We were from the Workers' Party to cancel the class division when Clement implemented it in 2003, we've been for increased teacher's density, and we've also been looking at norms. My question is: now we have just discussed time use in school. At that time, everyone fully agreed that the time spent by the teacher was important for the quality of teaching – to eliminate time thieves, to spend time with the students. Why does the same argument not apply to giving teachers time to follow up on each individual student — by having more teachers compared to the number of students?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1027	Firstly, it is quite right that the Workers' Party was opposed to removing the class division numbers. There was something the then Bondevik government got a majority for, along with SV, if I don't remember wrong. I think that was right, and I notice that it hasn't been reversed in the last eight years either. Of course, the number of teaching positions may also have something to say for time use and for how much time you have for each student. But there are several items here. First, research points out that the most important thing is what quality the teacher has. It's the most important thing. How to use more teaching positions is also important. If you reduce the number of pupils in the class in general, or if you subtract, for example, the number of students in the class in general. any pupils out to provide enhanced training during periods? It's probably a better idea. The representative Giske says that the Workers' Party has been to assess a norm. It's possible, they're obvious today – in the Workers' Party's programme, it says the exact opposite! Now it's okay to think anew about upcoming programs, but all of a sudden now, one and a half years after the election, I think it's a little striking.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1036	Let's discuss how such a norm can be designed. There were some here who quoted from the Workers' Party programme, that the municipalities must be able to dispose of their resources. It is a good and important argument against a class norm, even a school norm, that within a municipality you can channel more teachers to those schools that may have more students who need follow-up. Once again, only that argument itself confirms that the number of teachers actually matters. We are open to ascertain such a norm also at municipal level. Governments have a little more difficulty explaining why they are so blatantly opposed to ensuring that each municipality has at least a certain number of educational positions in relation to the number of pupils. For one, there is no risk of a transfer from one municipality to another because such a norm is introduced. So you argue against a school norm because it will lead to lower teacher's density, for example. at the schools on the east edge of Oslo. Ergo is considered to have an impact on learning, but that argument could not possibly apply to a norm at municipal level. Can the Councils supplement this reasoning?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1043	With regard to the possibility of a norm at municipal level, I can't see any coverage for it in the Workers' Party's programme, but it can be taken internally in the Workers' Party. As I said, it's okay to discuss a new program, but apparently you change your mind, or at least two opinions communicate at the same time, one and a half years after a choice, is funny. In the case of a norm at municipal level, I believe that the decisive argument there must be reliance on local politicians and local self-government. It's not hard to understand that those who are concerned about something in an area want a norm, a numerical fixation, several earrings. The problem is that the sum of all of this makes the local action space very small. If you are dissatisfied with what is happening in a municipality, there is, after all, all the difference between the local rapporteur and the minister of knowledge. The local rapporteur meets people at the store. I am traveling a lot, but I cannot meet all the voters in all the municipalities in Norway at the store every Saturday. This is an important argument for local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1048	The cord shift is over. The president complains to the representative Knag Fylkesnes, but the president made a mistake in calculating and has used up six lines, so Knag Fylkesnes should get his question in an article. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1055	Proposals draw up a debate on increasing teacher density between 1 and 4. steps. In my view, this debate is primarily about how to succeed in early school. Increased teacher density is one of several factors that may affect it. Then the question of whether there is a basis is good enough to introduce a national standard of teacher’s density. ‘First day of school is important, but the first day of kindergarten is the beginning. The content of the concept of the knowledge society must include the entire course of education. It is particularly important to include kindergartens and the learning of the smallest children. This is where the very basis for learning is laid.’ This quote is from the chronicle ‘Teaching starts in Kinderhagen’, which was published in the newspaper Dagsavisen on 24 April 2014. It was Marit Lambrechts in Espira and Håkon Haugli in Abelia who wrote this. 97 pst. by the parents of five-year-olds choose kindergarten as a pedagogical starting point for their children. The training course starts here. Learning is a self-enhancing process, early learning teaches more learning, said Mari Rege at the NHO annual conference last year. And she added: ‘Due to the interest rate effect, early investment in the learning of young children is the most effective means of providing Norwegian children with equal opportunities for success in education and working life.’ In recent Norwegian school policy developments, there are two things in particular that I am very pleased with for my part. One is the recognition that today's kindergarten is part of the educational course. The second is the settlement of the concept of ‘own-learning responsibility’ — which was far too far drawn in many contexts. When we discuss early work and any standard of teacher's density, it affects many areas. We agree that the resources have to be inserted where the students get the most for it. But is it in kindergarten, or is it in the early years of school? Is this about the allocation of resources for special education and for ordinary teaching, or for linguistics and maths? Or is it a fixed standard for the number of pupils per teacher? Many municipalities have tried different models to strengthen early efforts and have different experiences of using the teaching skills in classrooms. The results vary, and it shows that there are no simple phase solutions. This government has prioritised a solid lift of competences for the teachers. As I see it, despite the good intentions of the proposal, I think it is wise that we now concentrate on the actions of the Teacher Lift, to ensure that we have enough qualified teachers in the future. There are measures that we know to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1078	It is quite right that Norway has relatively high teacher density compared to many other OECD countries. But if we look at the causes, this is due, among other things, to: that we have many small schools in our country – we have to have – that affect the overall picture. In addition, we have few special schools, because special education takes place in the ordinary school. This is also going to be counted into the statistics. But when we spend more money in school than many other countries, and we have more teachers than many other countries, the question is, why are we in the middle of the PISA test scale? It is not unreasonable to expect a clearer relationship between resource use and outcomes — although one can ask fundamental questions in PISA studies. However, I believe that the reason is that Norway is using resources incorrectly. Early work has been a mantra in Norwegian school policy for many years, but the concept is not filled with content. Therefore, one continues to use large resources to repair and seal knowledge gaps late in school as one discovers and reveals the situation. There is also a lot of money to hang students back in, instead of making sure they don't fall off the load in the first place. We spend little money on special education at the lowest class stages, where needs may have already been discovered. We'd rather spend huge sums of money on special education at the highest class levels, but it's often too late. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that one should break the resource use, from the top class steps to the lowest class steps. It is therefore important to put in place a standard of teacher density in Norwegian schools — typically ambitious — from 1st to 4th grade. If we put more resources there, more people will benefit from ordinary education, one will get a better class environment, fewer will fall off the load, fewer will need special education later in school, and there's hope that fewer will leave primary school without being able to read and write properly. This is a bet that costs money. The Christian People's Party is aware of that, but it's a commitment that means that a person turns resource use in school in a more sensible direction and into a good investment for the future. This is also related to the previous case that was dealt with in Stortinget today, which involved making the teaching profession more attractive and secure recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1093	This is a knowledge debate -- let's keep ourselves knowledge-based. The representative Asheim claims that if this proposal is adopted, the principal must enter the class and pick up teachers – if there are too many. What part of the proposal does the representative not have read? None of the proposals say this should be at class level – none. There is a deliberate misinformation in this room about what the proposal is actually about. The proposals from the Christian People's Party and from SV are on the school level, and in addition, the proposal from the Centre Party and the Labour Party is on the municipal level. No one in this room has made provision for the introduction of new rules on classification numbers. That debate ended in 2002–2003 and was not raised in this Chamber by the Labour Party. It's abandoned, so no one's going to pick anyone up from any classroom. This concerns, as stated in the SV proposal, ‘average group size’ at school level. - So this is wrong. Furthermore, it says ‘average group size’ — at school level — ‘in normal hours’. What does that mean? This means that there is no special education or other targeted action in the class to be outsourced. That's not that average. These are regular hours. Everything that comes in addition should not be included in this average calculation. It's also a very important clarification. So this won't affect anyone who gets special education, in any way. What this proposal is all about – now I hope we can be so knowledge-based that we stick to it – is that we want to set a new standard for class size and for school. Then the schools themselves can consider how many they want to fit into the different classes. They can estimate whether you should have many in some classes and fewer in others, but we simply want a new level of the number of teachers in school today. Research cracks in all directions – there are several that have said. No, that's exactly what's in the setting. The research from the National Education Policy Center has just reviewed what is available in the field of research, and then in the field of "Impact of Class Size". So it's not just one research report, it's hundreds. I have here a longer reference that I can give to the minister and others who believe that there is no evidence to say that the size of the class is important. It is the legacy of Malcolm Gladwell that we are still discussing in Norway today – without holding to suggestions. It was he who said that the class size was «things we are confinced is such a big advantage [but] might not be such an advantage at all». I hope that we can start leaving, and that the Minister of Knowledge will also stick to available research.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1108	Several have now pointed out that they do not want a divisional number at class level – I am so pleased about that – but what you want instead is at school level. Just to put it first, my example, which goes at class level, just illustrates the problem of making a norm. But okay, let's say we do it at school, as the Workers' Party and the Centre open up in their proposal, and as SV and the Christian People's Party demand in their proposals. What does that mean? For example, it will. This means: in Oslo, you have a city council and a city council that deploys extra teaching resources, pays them even more to work at those schools that have extra challenges. So, if SV then gets an impact on its proposal, together with the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, it means that the Stortinget should then go into and outrage the City Council in Oslo, override the City Council in Oslo, take teaching resources out of the school that has extra challenges, and put them into a school that manages pretty well in terms of results. So the representative Geske says that this is the proof that you recognize that the teachers have something to say and that the teacher's density has something to say. Nobody disagrees that it might be wise to put in additional learning resources where there are extra challenges. Our point is that it has to be determined locally, outside those who wear the shoe, not determined by a norm given by Stortinget. The representative Giske stated that this is something the Workers' Party has always been for, and it was heard as if in the succession with the Council of State he actually went away from his own – and the Central Party’s – proposal, which says ‘school or municipal level’, and now it is only at municipal level. Well, let's say in every municipality there's going to be 20 students per teacher. This would mean that three municipalities in Norway would be hit by it — that is, this decision would not have any effect if it were the target. Then we have some large municipalities and some small municipalities in Norway, and then I mean not just geographically, but in the population. It's obvious that the teacher's density will be higher in a school with few students than in a school with many students, and it wouldn't necessarily be rational or appropriate to have very many teachers in a big school, where the classes are 25-30 students, it could keep one teacher in each class. Then it can be said that the research is broken, as the representative of Knag Fylkesnes explained. Well, it doesn't crack that much – and at least it doesn't crack in Knag County's direction. For the research we have on teacher density and learning, such as: The meta-study of John Hattie, who is now being founded in many places – he has gone through 100 different research reports on teacher density and learning, and he is unable to find one report that shows a direct link between teacher density and learning – is a research that we should be interested in in in the Church, Education and Research Committee. I think it is particularly – again – that a number of the parties in the Committee address a comment that draws up one research report that refers to one result, but completely ignores all the other research that goes in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1119	It is true that research is sprinkling with regard to the effect of increasing teacher density or reducing class sizes. However, we also need to be aware that different studies use different assumptions for their studies. Studies are available to show that the reduction in the size of the class itself is of little benefit. So, if one only reduces the size of the class and beyond does not make other changes in teaching, it will have little effect. And I think that can be entirely possible. It's not sure whether there are 25 or 35 students present at a lecture, which in any case is held exactly the same way, regardless of the number of students. But the whole point of increasing the teacher's density, and especially at the lowest class levels, is that it will give us just the flexibility needed to make other changes in teaching. If, for example: have two teachers in the classroom, one can help those students who have special challenges to hang out with, while the other can help the rest. And with more teaching resources, it's easier to divide the class into smaller groups where appropriate. It's these possibilities that will give the good and valuable results. If we, for example, Looking at the OECD report ‘Education at a Glance’ of 2014, it notes that teacher density has something to say for children’s learning, that low teacher density is particularly important for children with a migration background and children of parents with a low socioeconomic status. It is the same students who are overrepresented in special education, and it is the same students who are overrepresented in non-response statistics. Therefore, increasing teacher density at the lowest level is a good, important and targeted measure to help those students in school who need it most.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1127	I was disappointed that I did not want us to put research reports in each other's heads. I think the debate now shows that we're going to make little progress in drawing up all these research reports. We can read them, use them as a knowledge base and then formulate policies beyond that. There is no new phenomenon that the Workers' Party is engaged in ensuring access to resources at school. We have done this by strengthening the municipal economy over several years, and we had, among other things, the following wording in Soria Moria II: ‘The Government will facilitate more teachers through a strengthened local economy.’ We did that for eight years, and this year we peaked at three billion. kr more than the government proposed to the municipalities. In a line change earlier today, the Council of State and I had an exchange about the Ski. I just want to inform the council that our municipal plan would give Skien $18 million. kr more than the local planning of the Right Party and the Advance Party would have done. It's money to prioritize school, to screen cuts and to hire teachers. Further in Soria Moria II, it was said that we wanted a maximum limit on the number of students per teacher at school level. So this is nothing new. We started that process with, among other things, to strengthen the teacher's density in youth, a commitment that I am pleased that the government has continued. The representative Asheim mentioned a good wording from our programme. To that it's just to say: So good that he agrees! Let's take it as a starting point and consider creating a standard that ensures both resource access and local flexibility. It is on the basis of precisely what we have formulated – together with the Centre Party – a proposal to get an assessment of a norm both at school level and at municipal level. I think the representative Asheim in his post fires himself unnecessarily up, with sloppy, conservative glasses.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1147	The next speaker is the representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes. He is the rapporteur on the matter and therefore still has 3 minutes of speaking time, although he has spoken twice before.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1150	This has developed to be a bit of a weird discussion. The research shown in the settings is a research of research – a study of different studies from around the world. In the same way that Hattie, who was a meta-study of the research on education, this research has also gone through available literature, not only data, but also qualitative research in the field. And when it comes to the use of Hattie: Hattie shows that it's a context -- less class size has meaning for the weak students. Still, Asheim says it has no connection at all. I think I'll just show you a little bit of what Asheim has about available research. If only the researchers had seen us now, I thought when we sat down there. The GSI shows that there have been several elephants per teacher in school today. It's a little strange that there's something that only bothers some people in the hall, while they're in government, don't worry about this at all. A question can be asked: What is the acceptable size of a class? If the size of a class does not have anything to say, a very scarce teacher in the class is required. It is also not acceptable for the representatives. Finally, the representative Asheim realized that there was no learning density at class level these proposals were about – it was about learning density at school or at municipality level. Then copies were suddenly changed. Then one had to talk about that if Oslo had a little too many in one school because they had special measures there, the principal had to pick them up from school, they were moved from class to school – but no, wrong again. As I said, these are ordinary hours of teaching. So it's not about the special educational measures, such as: special education, which one shall introduce in schools with special challenges. OK – I hope we can get a new example, because this illustrates the use of proposals and the text of the proposal. The use of available research shows that this is only about priority. One actually doesn't want to spend money on strengthening the learning capacity in school. One does not want to take those steps. It seemed to me to be completely honest, but let there be arguments in the debate – do not hide behind research as an uninformed person, or arguments that are not related to proposals made in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1168	The representative, Henrik Asheim, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1171	I'm going to try not to help prolong the debate, because I don't have any more speaking time left anyway. I'm just going to address the accusations that came from the representative of Knag Fylkesnes, first of all, that you haven't gotten involved in the research if you say that teacher density has no direct connection with learning. Well, it's not a statement that the representative Asheim or anyone else has made. There's quite a broad consensus about that. You can also have a talk with e.g. researcher Thomas Nordahl at the Hedmark High School, who has been through Hattie's research in depth, who attended a seminar like Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left on special education in the school, and who took the point up once more there. So to what is a bit serious, because such a norm could also mean that some municipalities – if you set the norms low enough, correctly – will have to hire more unskilled students in school. Some of what we know has been a problem in Norway, in Norwegian school, has not only been how many teachers you have had, or whether they have had enough continuing education, but that you have had too many unskilled teachers who have worked in the field of education. We have to go away from that, and then a norm is a bad idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1178	The next speaker is Mr Knag Fylkesnes, who is the rapporteur on the matter and thus has 3 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1181	Thomas Nordahl says that if the teachers continue to teach in exactly the same way as before, with fewer elephants in the class, yes, then it has no effect. That's a good idea, that's a good idea. But the point here is that if you get fewer elephants to stick to, you can actually change the methods you use in the class, so you can have a lot more adapted teaching. To put it this way: the developments that have been in the use of methods in education are not just customs and clothing – it has an effect, it is research-based. Opening up that more of the wealth available in education can be used because teachers get more time, get smaller groups and can adapt their teaching much more is what we put up in our proposals here. I noticed that the representative Asheim did not go further with his example, and I thought that was good. I hope we can finish here and now – once and for all – that there is someone in this room who wants new class divisions at class level. No one's going to talk about it, everyone's talking about school level or municipal level. The discussion we had in 2002 is abandoned. We are now in a new era, a new discussion and a new level of ambition. So I'm just going to say to the last argument, about where these teachers come from. That's exactly what we have in Norway today: Too many teachers left the profession. Either they leave the profession before they begin as ordinary teachers, or they leave the profession very early in their career, or they leave the profession very late, too early in the profession. The Education Association has calculated that there are almost 40,000 graduates, ranked teachers who have left school. There is no shortage of teachers in Norwegian society; there is only a shortage of teachers in Norwegian school. So in the paradoxical situation, we need a standard with multiple teachers to get more teachers. So, what's the biggest concern for Norwegian teachers is that they don't have enough time to be teachers. If we give the better room to be, it'll be more interesting to be a teacher. More teachers simply give more teachers. I just want to take the final opportunity to thank you for a thorough review of the proposals. This is a selection of areas and fields of concern that we're going through more in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1192	Before the debate is over, I would like to take the opportunity to respond to some of the claims, for example. that the right does not want to spend money on the teacher. It'll be a little easy to say when we just have a huge stake in the teacher in our budgets, and when we also have a big stake on a teacher's vow that involves a lot of efforts to make the situation for teachers better. In the case of a teacher standard, which we are discussing here today, it has also come to light that there is not very much doubt that if you put in enough teachers, it will be easier to learn things from the students. It's about having a norm that forces everyone to have the same density of teachers all over the city, all over Oslo, for example, that I come from. There we know that we have a great advantage in being able to target resources towards those areas of the city that we know are most in need. It's a big advantage, and it's actually helped the Oslo school do it incredibly well. It does it very well in social mobility, and it does it very well in teaching the students what they're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1199	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1215	I want to start at home, with a look at the world. State pension funds abroad have recently published their report Responsible Administration, for 2014. It's on 80 sides. Water is mentioned 80 times. Leader Yngve Slyngstad writes, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘We have chosen to focus part of the work in selected areas — children’s rights, climate challenges, and water management.’ Furthermore, they say that they want a responsible administration to secure values. The state pension fund abroad is both gold mine and inheritance silver for Norway. As far as investments in water, environmental technologies and sustainability are concerned, I will begin by bragging for a positive development in the fund. They have gone from being a bit naive and yielding investor to becoming a critical and dialogue-based investor. They develop sustainability standards. One of them is water consumption. They assess risk elements related to water. They're sponsors of the CDP water program. They produce expectation documents and contribute to research on impacts on groundwater and surface water at, inter alia, mining. In 2014, they did not less than 269 company ratings in water management. The fund's market value of these companies is 320 billion. kr. Only in 2014 was the new 6 billion invested. kr in water-related companies, representing about 15 pst. of the total environmental investments made by the Fund in 2014. This says something about money in the environment and sustainability, and Norway can contribute in one way by combining capital and skills. Also domestically in Norway, we spend billions of dollars on water each year. In 2013, Norwegian municipalities invested 7 billion. kr in water and drain. In addition, they spend billions of dollars each year operating installations. We also have a growing industry related to water treatment, which translates for an estimated 5 billion. kr. Among other things, there have been two clusters of water in Vestfold and Trøndelag respectively, called the Water Cluster and Smart Water. Several other industrial clusters in Norway also show interest, such as the Node cluster in Agder. In total, these municipal and private actors employ approx. 10000 persons and with a turnover of well over 15 billion. kr. We the North have tried to think that oil is the world's most important raw material. The oil has provided us with large incomes and many jobs. Nevertheless, I would argue that water is the world's most important resource. That's what's the life-giving and fundamental force. We're on our way to 9 billion people in the world around 2050. Globally, water is a scarce commodity even before we're seven billion. Billions of people do not have access to clean drinking water and satisfactory sanitary conditions. It inhibits economic growth and leads to sickness, death and conflict. A better world will therefore require more water. Therefore, helping to improve access to clean drinking water is preventing emergencies and conflicts, and it is a good investment in better public health. So in addition, water treatment is becoming one of the world's largest industries. International forecasts suggest investments of nearly 800 billion. dollar annually up to 2020. In Norway too, we are facing major investments with climate adaptation, among other things. to deal with floods in greater quantities and to find new roads. Here there is a blue-green sector in the water body, literally. It's not only technology at its best, but also at its most important. The oil technology industry is today our largest mainland industry with nearly 200,000 employees and an annual turnover of 360 billion. kr. It's still going to give us a lot back and be a dominant actor. At the same time, we can also use it to transfer competences to new growth sectors. As oil and gas, water is liquid. There's a lot of similarities. It's process industry, control technology, drilling and pumping. There are couplings and pressures, leaks that must be leaked – or preferably not occurring. It's search, trending, calculations. Norway has succeeded in oil technology because we have large deposits of oil and gas, as we have of water, but also because we have been good at making many components work together, because we have made extremely strict emission and pollution requirements, and because we have given some favourable incentives to relieve risks and secure investment in competence. We can apply the same requirements to the water sector in Norway. We can also give the same nutritional instruments. This is particularly what I would like to discuss with the Council of State here today: what sectors do we see as food and growth potential for Norway, and what measures should we take? I believe that the Norwegian water industry has a great opportunity in the world, both to provide better health to more people, to secure natural resources and to generate growth and export revenues to Norway. So it's like the Norwegian water industry has some peculiarities, for example. drinking water production and sewage treatment are municipally owned and operated. When the state pension fund abroad has placed many billions in water abroad, it is because operations are much more private. I do not need to start a major debate on Norwegian ownership and the operation of water and sewerage management, but it is important when discussing instruments. If Norwegian municipalities think it is good to buy cheap, tried and tested 1990s technologies, they do not contribute much to the innovation and development of a Norwegian water industry. Important instruments that I would like to point to in this way, and which the Council of State has at its disposal, are therefore: Purchase law. Incentive arrangements for acquisitions. The municipal bank, which is owned by the State, offers e.g.: green interest rate, a lower rate of interest for good environmental investment, but is it sufficient, for the municipalities and the activities they operate, but also to contribute to innovation and development? Creating capacity and competence in municipalities to participate in innovation and R & D work. A small contribution has been made by the national supplier development programme, but it is far from 50 pilot attempts to implement that knowledge among employees in all municipalities and a number of suppliers. The so-called IFU/OFU scheme is not used in the municipal sector in general and is very little used in the technical sector. How can we get more? May some of the Innovation Norway programmes receive new mandates, where municipalities, the technical sector and the water industry can and can participate. Smart Water and the Water Cluster have been small attempts at this in Innovation Norway, and all parties want more of it. In Norway, the water and sewerage sector is not tax financed but is financed by the inhabitants. Just as a small part of the electricity charge goes to Enova, can the inhabitants perhaps accept a crown or two to an innovation fund? In Denmark, they did this in connection with the municipal reform in a split layer between the inhabitants, the municipality and the state. Can we find a similar solution in Norway? Water and sewerage treatment facilities and water transport infrastructure are large and long-term investments. It requires a corresponding long cycle of innovation. How can we ensure innovation and innovation, but also the commercialisation phase, which necessarily has to go over quite a number of years in order to reach a market? The oil sector has and has had an oil mosquito scheme, tax incentives, among others. On a proposal from the Left, we discussed a health mosquito regime to raise health-related industries. Can we discuss something similar in water and environmental technology? In Norway, R & D efforts are generally high, and we have a very good infrastructure here, but in terms of water, it is relatively low, and in addition, it is very fragmented. Much goes to the prevention and protection of water sources, which are very important. A small amount goes to health and nutrition-related research and development. So to the university and college sectors, which are struggling to recruit both teachers and students for water and technology-related studies in general. Some of the challenges are also the municipal sector, which has not prioritised or failed to achieve a change in the funding of higher education, with increased demands from sectors and businesses to contribute. This is a more general challenge facing the whole state sector. This concerns the State Road Service, the Railway Agency, Statnett and other major actors – Defence Construction for that purpose. Maybe we should also look at and facilitate closer cooperation between these big actors? The construction industry wears with some of the corresponding. I believe an active and progressive policy is better than a crisis policy. I am from Gjøvik and can sit and watch every day beyond Mjösa. In the 1970s, all life in Mjösa was threatened by pollution. The measles action that followed was absolutely necessary to save Mjösa. It took place, among other things: that Hias IKS was established in Hedmark. In 1995, they started the construction of the first sludge treatment plant in the world, based on the so-called Cambi process. The facility may be the smallest in the world, but it's still in operation. It was an important pilot and is now also important for research. Today, Cambi AS in Asker is a major exporter of sludge treatment technology developed at Hamar. Cambi wins bids and delivers to the largest cities in the world. Hias was the first participant in the National Supplier Development Programme for which KS and NHO cooperate in the municipal technical sector in 2012. They wanted better use of the biogas and were therefore involved. This shows that the municipal sector can be involved if we facilitate, if they want, and if we contribute instruments. It's possible to take Norway out into the world, and my question is, how can we, and do we?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1280	In most parts of the world, water is a limited resource, and in many places the quality of available water sources has been reduced over time. Many countries have intensified the water management legislation. More environmentally and health-friendly management of emissions is required which may affect the water quality of drinking water sources, groundwater, sea, rivers and lakes. This has created greater demand for technologies and solutions for water management. There have been a number of enterprises in Norway that provide services, technological solutions and equipment related to the treatment and treatment of water. Turnover in the water industry has increased sharply. End-users are enterprises, for example: maritime industry, the aquaculture industry, drinking water production and waste water management, the food industry and the petroleum industry. The oil age in Norway is not over yet. It's going to last for decades. But the importance of the petroleum sector in the Norwegian economy can, as the interpellant suggests, gradually diminish. Therefore, we need a resilient business that can provide good opportunities for continued growth and help finance the development of wealth in Norway in the future. The Ministry of Food and Fisheries has good tools to facilitate and stimulate growth. We have several schemes that are also relevant to the water industry. On the research side, enterprises may compete in general schemes and programmes, such as the SkattenFUNN, the BIA and the FORNY2020 programme. We also have thematically structured programmes, such as MAROFF and Environment 2015. We have the environmental technology system, cluster programmes, the R & D contract system and seed funds. These are schemes that have been shown to be relevant to the water industry. Through these schemes and programmes, we contribute financially to risk-absorbing, but the companies themselves need to find the good projects. I would like to stress that we only contribute with funding if it is co-financing with private actors. Privates must be the main source of corporate finance in Norway, including in the case of water-based production activities. The Eco-Technology Facility is Innovation Norway's main instrument to support the development of technologies in the field of the environment. The scheme shall assist companies wishing to carry out pilot or demonstration projects, facilitate the strengthening of their competitiveness and contribute to the achievement of our environmental objectives in the long term. The Government has invested in the Eco-Tech System. The budget for 2015 is 330 million. kr, there's an increase of 187 million. kr from the last draft budget of the Stoltenberg II Government. Grant commitments of 1 billion have been made. kr under the scheme since its inception in 2010. But of these, only 18.5 million. kr went to the water industry. It is thus a potential for this industry in the Eco-Technology System. Cluster collaboration facilitates joint research and development, in addition to allowing business participants to take greater advantage of each other's knowledge. Cooperation also makes participants both nationally and internationally visible. The scheme with Norwegian Innovation Clusters – Arena, NCE and now Global Centers of Expertise – is established to support Norwegian clusters. We have two water clusters in Norway today – Clean Water Norway in Vestfold and Smart Water Cluster in Tøndelag. Both are supported by approximately 6 million. kr through the Arena programme. In total, enterprises in Norway are switching related to the two water cluster services and equipment for more than 14 billion. kr every year and has approx. 4000 employees and an export share of 30-35 pst. These are establishments that are expected to grow further in the coming years. The clusters have members from across the value chain, from manufacturers of technical solutions and technologies via research and consulting services to end-users. Krüger Kaldnes has head office in Sandefjord and is a member of Clean Water Norway. The company has been and is oriented towards the water and sewerage sector, but has expanded in recent years to provide water treatment solutions to the aquaculture sector. The company is part of the international group Veolia Environment with 187 000 employees and has been given group responsibility for the market for closed systems for land-based farming and smelting facilities. In this context, it is also relevant to mention that there are three research-driven innovation centres in the 2015-2023 portfolio that relate to water quality, water management and emissions. One of these, CtrlAQUA, is working on developing land-based farming systems. The government has great ambitions for research, development and innovation, and last autumn we presented a long-term plan for research and higher education. That's where we've set ourselves three main goals. We will. enhancing competitiveness and innovation, addressing major societal challenges, developing excellence in professional environments; Several priority areas of the long-term plan are relevant to the water industry. This applies to: marine climate, environment and environmentally friendly energy enabling technologies an innovative and adaptable business life world-leading professional environments The arrangement of the long-term plan could thus contribute to the appropriate support of industries and research environments where water is a central theme. The Norwegian market for water-cleaning technology is growing, but there are major opportunities in the global markets. Enterprises must therefore focus on international markets. In addition to regular advice to individual enterprises, Innovation Norway organises delegation trips abroad. When planning travel activities in the department, we also look at markets where Norwegian companies have opportunities. This year we are planning a business delegation to Africa, to countries in which the Norwegian water industry could be interested. Last year I visited Vietnam with a large business delegation. In Vietnam, there are good market opportunities for the Norwegian water industry. Innovation Norway therefore organised its own delegation of water companies to Vietnam in connection with the Vietwater fair in November. This is a good example of how the Norwegian clusters at home can profile their technology and competence abroad. The Norwegian water industry provides important services to the Norwegian public sector and Norwegian industry. It is an important resource for Norwegian and international business that helps them to meet their environmental obligations. The water industry is growing, has significant turnover and makes a solid contribution to the value creation in Norway. In good Norwegian, it's called a success story. The Ministry of Food and Fisheries has instruments that have helped the industry grow, and I feel that the general instruments that are in place are good for the industry. At the same time, the use of the instrument may have an unused potential for the water industry to be greater than at present.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1344	Thank you to the Council of State. That was a thorough answer. It reflects a diversity, and if you can call the water industry a sector already, it shows that it's on its way. At the same time, there are many instruments that the Council of State describes, and it can provide for a need to simplify and see if those programmes are also a bit of a hindrance to finding out. It's now part of it. One of my errands was the Norwegian water industry, which is based on public ownership. Then we rely on the public sector to contribute to some of the developments that we want to continue. Much of technology development has to be done through Norwegian acquisitions locally. We see a municipal sector today that is struggling with a little too little capacity to contribute and match the development of the private actors here, both in terms of buying correctly and perhaps ten years in advance, as I showed with the example of Hamas with Cambi and Hias. There have been few examples in the Norwegian municipal technical sector that this has happened, so a better tool should be added to make the use of public and private sector cooperation on the basic level even better. There is also something about challenging yourself in the Norwegian municipal sector. Earlier today, there was a debate about school. Schools and water are the two largest investment sectors in the municipal sector, which invest annually for as much as 15 billion. kr. There is considerable investment, and there is also some mention of the competence of the municipal sector to plan, build and implement large-scale projects, and innovative solutions can disappear a little in the future if one does not have that capacity. So to facilitate that I think is important, also considering a sector that can benefit from it when it comes to meeting a world market that is in many ways quite similar, but where Norway is generally well ahead. So we have to be even better. Governments also pointed out that there are many sectors in here. That's very good. We see it within the port and within the aqua, where opportunities are created, not to talk about the northern regions and the Arctic as well, which gives us many opportunities and a great responsibility to manage those areas, but also to bring them together. In this way, the Water Cluster and Smart Water Cluster are starting something, but something remains to bring together actors and sectors that have traditionally not had so much cooperation. It's also a challenge where, as an authority, we are responsible for facilitating.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1355	State Council of Malta does not want the word now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1358	‘A better world will require more water. Water treatment is becoming one of the world's largest industries," writes and says the interpellant, and I want to thank for the commitment. I totally agree. Norway is well positioned to contribute to this global challenge, and not least water represents significant business opportunities for the Norwegian water and process industries. The domestic need, the world market and a targeted focus on environmental technologies and knowledge together represent a significant industrial opportunity for Norway. I am from a region that has both R & D environment and industrial actors working on value creation related to water across established industries, such as offshore, oil, aquaculture, filter technology, water and sewerage technology – i.e. municipal technology, as we usually mention it – and water management. Many of these are located in the industrial community of Leksvik on Fosen, which I think is good to hear that both the interpellant and the Council of State are well acquainted with through the Arena project that is found in Trøndelag: Smart Water Cluster. It is clear that the starting point for this industrial community, which has so many players in this industry, started with founder Bjørn Lyng, who is behind – or behind – he is no longer among us – industrial brands like Oras, Lycro and Elsafe, and who started Aqualyng in the 2000s, with the idea of cleaning salt water for fresh water. Since then, several companies from the Lexvik environment have come up with different water treatment technologies for the world market – the type of compatible plug-and-play elements that can supply villages in Africa. For example, to Vietnam, where the Council of State has been travelling, there are today industrial actors in Norway who can participate and deliver. Much of this has been possible due to close and good cooperation with the Institute of Water and Environmental Engineering at NTNU. Professor Hallvard Ødegaard has been a champion in bringing the university's knowledge out to industry – selling the magic formula that you want to make to contribute to industrial growth. I was so lucky to be the director of Innovation Norway when this Arena request was prepared and accepted. When the interpellant challenges what it takes to redeem more of Norway’s potential in this industry, I have some thoughts about it. Just as both the Council of State and the inter-pellant say in their contributions, the existing innovation schemes, such as IFU/OFU, must be addressed. OFU has been used in the Lexvik environment. There the municipality was the demanding public purchaser, and it was possible to develop a modernized municipal water and sewerage system. Arena, Research Council, Regional Research Fund, Internationalisation Mechanism and all of these that we know have been converted into the Water Cluster in Lexvik. In addition, the interpellant also referred to the capital tools, the Petroleum Fund and the smaller ones, such as seed funds and venture capital. Then it's also the moment that we have to succeed in so-called technology transfer, i.e. commercialization of research and technology. And not least water management is a classic science. We must therefore also strengthen and develop our professional environments and not least the ability to recruit. Soon, a whole generation of municipal engineers will go into the ranks of pensioners, and the water and sewerage sectors will also need to be developed. One of the projects in the Water Cluster in Trøndelag is working on what is called Smart Water Communities, concepts for more decentralised water and sewage systems, less water consumption, more water recycling, energy and purification. Smart water communities will be the communities of the future. In addition, the Association of Machine Workers, MEF, reports a very high residual amount in terms of investments in municipal water and sewerage. As authorities, how can we influence this and make the municipalities learn from each other and become good orderers? That's when my time is up. As I said, this is an area I am burning for, and I think this is a commendable initiative from the interpellant.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1379	I think there have been many important moments in this debate. The previous speeches were about the infrastructure that is currently in the municipalities, and the values that are there today, while there are major challenges in upgrading and developing the infrastructure that we have, and the challenges that municipalities face in keeping pipes and systems well up to date. I have been so lucky that for almost eight years, I have been a member of the board of one of the largest VAR companies in the country, and I have seen a good knowledge of the water industry. I have to say, I think it's a very exciting industry. There's a lot going on in the industry that I think most people don't think about. You take a lot for granted, but there's a lot to happen before you get your water in the jump. There's a lot of concerns here, but one of the things that the industry's worried about is that it's about recruitment. There are many students today who choose to go to industrial techniques and processes in high school, but still the water industry feels that it is difficult to get apprentices. You could say the same thing about colleges. Few colleges choose to invest in water-related subjects in their engineering training. It is announced, and we know that there will be a structural change in higher education that will change the way our educational institutions will be organized in the future. The Minister of Knowledge has announced that he will look into whether the Ministry will be more involved and directing the subjects of the various institutions. I could imagine hearing more what the Council of State, Monica Mæland, thinks about this with recruiting for the water industry, because it's clear that the educational institutions, whether they're high school or colleges and universities, have a mission to deliver educated students to the business community. Here, first of all, we don't have enough education that focuses on the water industry. So, of course, the water industry is in the same competitive position as all the other industries and has suffered enough over time now from the oil industry bringing in many of the good engineers who are being trained today. It is possible that we see a change in that now, with falling oil prices and fewer investments. But I would like to hear the Council of State attach some comments to what she thinks about it by educating competent people to work in the water industry, a very important industry for both the country and the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1390	Water is a human right. I want to start with that, because the government has just presented a big message about the humanities in development policy. Then it's important that we guarantee the most basic human rights, and water is one of them. It is necessary for individuals, it is necessary for food production, and of course it is necessary for society as a whole to function. That's why one of the most important things we have to do when we're going to develop both the rights side of it and the industries related to it, is to see what it is of the water policy field that can't be commercialised and privatized. One has been involved in the oil fund and Norwegian ownership, and there is reason to see through it too, for one can of course be involved in owning companies that drive new, necessary and good technology, but one can also sit as owner in companies that privatise water resources, drain water resources and destroy drinking water for ordinary people, and where agriculture is based on unsustainable water management, and where water quality is deteriorated in the future. Here you have to be able to ensure both, so that you use the Norwegian money in a way that guarantees both water as human rights and that you do not impair water quality and drain groundwater, which is a property that everyone has to own together. You've been involved in a lot of different ways, and that's very good. But I want to focus on a scientist who last year got a big economic price, I forgot what it's called, but it's from Stanford University in England. The researcher's name is Mariana Mazzucato, and she has researched and shown that the major shifts in technology, industry, society and nutrition have very often been raised by public sector investment, i.e. a relationship between what public authorities do and the response they get in business. And that's what I think the interpellant is after. If we want to develop this technology well in Norway, we need to apply technology in Norway. There are also good opportunities to do so, because there are great needs around the world, of course, but also in Norway. Norway has, inter alia: is committed to the EU Water Directive, but much greater efforts are needed to achieve its objectives. In 2014, there were 300 million missing. on the achievement of the objectives of water quality in the EU Water Directive. But it's important that we do, because it's about taking care of the water we're going to have in the gap, that our industry is going to be able to use to get their production methods approved, and it's about all the biological life, of course, that's also in the water. The state of the environment in one third of our water bodies in Norway is such that there is a risk of not achieving the environmental objectives of the EU Water Directive by the deadline. That means that we can go in here with an offensive that I challenge the government to join in. We in SV granted 100 million. kr to this in our alternative budget because we have to achieve these objectives. Once we achieve such goals, we will also help the industry that can develop technology and business ideas also have a drive from public investment in this area. On the water and sewerage network, there is a need for investment in the hundreds of trillion krone class in Norway. We may think that the wiring is good, but there's probably not many places. In addition, there is a need for substantial investments in climate adaptations. The climate is going to change. Suffering if I hope that we can now have a climate policy that allows us to limit the changes to a minimum, there is no doubt that they will come. SV added 350 million. kr in the budget of the municipalities, inter alia: because municipalities need to make many climate adaptations, inter alia. in the field of water supply and protection of water sources. This could be a major market for the sector which, through public efforts, can develop much better.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1403	Thank you to those who have taken part in the debate. I have to draw attention to the fact that we have established the Storting Water Group, with representatives of all parties, and the commitment is as broad as the debate here has reflected. The representative of Kjerkol's articles on smart water systems was very interesting. Obviously, there are some of the opportunities Norway has. It also tells us that we have to do the job at home and not waste water. We wash cars with drinking water that the rest of the world can only dream of. There has to be an innovation here, so that we don't spend so much energy, electricity and chemicals on cleaning drinking water that is just to be used to wash a car. It's a little cross-thinking. Then it's the critical infrastructure, it provides water in the crane 24 hours a day for all of us. In itself, it's critical. It's critical in many ways, including economics. We take that responsibility and secure the values established over many decades in Norway. There are water pipes in Norway that are over 100 years old, which are better than some of those that are only 20–30 years old. It shows that there are long courses and many generations of efforts that contribute to quality. Norway is a humanitarian act. Water is part of it, and Norwegian companies contribute a lot. There are also economic opportunities here, which we have not been so much involved in this debate – unfortunately, we can say – but in humanitarian work and aid there are enormous opportunities. Back to technology: another part of this is what is called "NoDig", which happens without digging. Pork root municipality is of those who have used this. The Norwegian company Olimb is the world leader in this and can now handle wires under pressure. It's a huge innovation for a sector that changes and deals a lot with pressure pipes. It also shows that avoiding emissions from machines and equipment on the top of the ground, changing and drilling under the ground and in existing pipes leads to great savings in climate. Of course, it disturbs the trading position less, and it creates less mess in the streets. This is easier, for example. for public transport. We will also see more of this. Recruitment and training have been mentioned here. Now the industry itself is in the brink of Trainee Water, which is a national scheme. You may be struggling most with the public sector, and it's another cross of thought for us. We must create offensive jobs in the public sector as well. Then the public sector has to set up when someone wants them on the team. This applies both to state authorities and to Directorates and departments, and of course to the municipal sector, which must offer its opportunities and resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1420	Thank you for a good debate. I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing a question that is not very frequently discussed, about an industry that can both contribute to solving important environmental problems and has a large economic potential. I've been dealing with the industrial policy part of this because that's my responsibility. I'm glad that there seems to be a great deal of consensus attached to our instrument. It can be improved and simplified, and we're working on it. But we have to use the existing instruments, and there is an unsolved potential that the water industries should make more use of. Then we have to look at how we can contribute to it. There have been many good recordings here, including: the municipal water and sewerage sector has been mentioned. My impression is that many municipalities do a big and important job and have plans in the billions class in this area, but it is clear that it is a big task in many places to renew the grid, and it is perhaps too big a task for some municipalities. On that occasion, I would like to say that I believe in larger and more robust municipalities that can gain a greater competence in this, both in the purchasing profession and in the purely technical. With regard to recruitment, we now see a change, given that the level of investment in the oil and gas sector is much lower than before. We see that other industries benefit from it, and that's good. I think that also applies to this industry. I also believe that the fact that we are now linking public procurement rules to the demand for apprentices will increase recruitment, and there is clearly a much larger scope for action within both existing rules and those we are now working on establishing, in order to use a public procurement area to increase the potential for both innovation and recruitment in this sector. I think it's been a good debate, and I thank you for your input.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1431	Case No. So 5 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1437	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1496	The President understands it so that the Labour Party will vote against it. The vote boards showed that 63 votes were cast for the vote and 34 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 14.02.54]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1505	It was not registered that I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1510	Then we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1523	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1533	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1541	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Iselin Nybø on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a plan to reduce school bureaucracy by 25 pst. so that the teacher can have more time for each individual student.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1565	The President will draw attention to the fact that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Socialist Left parties are behind the vote. The President then assumes that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1599	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Christian Thinning Bjørnø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 2, by Hans Fredrik Groevan on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, from Torgeira Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose the introduction of a national provision for school-level student density, which sets a maximum limit of 15 pupils for average group size in normal hours for 1 to 4. steps and maximum limit of 20 pupils for 5 to 10. steps. The government is asked to return with further provisions and timetable for implementation. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1628	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose the introduction of a national provision for school-level teacher density, which sets an average group size limit in normal hours for 1 to 4. steps of 16 students and for 5 to 10. Steps of 24 students.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1636	SV shall vote in favour of subsidiary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1650	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget on how to introduce a national provision for teacher density in primary school at school or municipality level.’ The Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1681	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-19.ana.ud262e1721	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It's not. The meeting has been cancelled.
