ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e92	The representatives Rigmor Andersen Eide and Christian Tybring-Gjedde, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The request for the sick leave of the representative, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, has been submitted to the Right-Group from 1 December until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara Representative Arnulf Goksøur is called before the term of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e118	Arnulf Goksøir is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e126	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e129	I will, on behalf of myself, make a proposal for a representative to develop the health service of the people and a new network model for quality in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e134	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e148	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e153	Thank you to the Left for a good and important representative proposal, and thank you to the Committee for a thorough process in this matter. The goal of the case on our part has been to gather a majority to get the case of Lower Otta up to treatment in the Stortinget. The aim has been to send a clear signal that there is a need for more knowledge and more emphasis on the natural consequences before development is decided on in this case. We must note that there is no majority for any of these proposals for decisions. However, we believe that the debate at least warns that natural values related to hydropower must become a more important theme of Norwegian energy and environmental policy. In 2001, Jens Stoltenberg announced in his new year that the time for large hydroelectric installations was over. He did, because it was generally understood that our great rivers are very large natural values, which we cannot afford to destroy more of without a very good reason. But over the last few years, we've seen an increase in interest in large hydroelectric power plants. It's only been a few weeks since the government gave permission to major natural interventions in the Einunnava stretch in Hedmark. I recommend the representatives get there as soon as they can before the river is destroyed, because there it is very nice. The government has already granted a concession to four of the twelve rivers designated by the Nature Conservation Association as the most valuable remaining rivers that we should take care of here in Norway. In previous years, conservationists met with arguments about darkened villages and cold aluminium furnaces when we protested against hydroelectric expansions. Today, these arguments are replaced by the argument that we need to build as much as possible to save the climate. Of course, the Green Party and many others agree that climate challenges have made the debate on watercourse development more complex. But you've realized very little about the climate problem if you think we can solve it at the expense of nature. The struggle to preserve the global climate and to limit global warming is, in the first place, a struggle to preserve the natural basis. With the energy policy pursued in Norway today, where we do not have a clear plan to use renewable energy to phase out fossil energy, and we do not have a clear plan to use renewable energy to create jobs and drive new technologies, the main consequence of energy expansion is too much that we are destroying nature without having enough of it. It is paradoxical to think that, in a moment in this Chamber, when we are going to discuss a proposal from the Greens on sea wind bets, the main argument is that we do not need sea wind because we have so much renewable energy surplus from before. But when it comes to destroying one of our remaining very valuable river sections, that argument about energy surplus is not significant. It only means one thing: nature still has too little value in the Norwegian energy debate. Lower Otta is one of the largest and most intact floodland systems left in the Gudbrand valley. There are many red-listed species there. Several habitat types in the area have been assessed as nationally threatened, so the State of Oppland has recommended that the river section in question be protected. In addition, rafting and river sports are an important and growing industry in the area. Much of the growth in this industry is just linked to Lower Otta. The number of jobs created in river sports and tourism is much higher than the number of jobs created in any river power plant. Governments themselves have stated that the potential for rafting in the river will be greatly reduced by extension. In addition, few tourists will come to Norway to raft in a well-regulated river, where water is released only in small portions. This case concerns whether Stortinget will decide at regular intervals on how we treat Norwegian watercourse nature. It's been a long time since we did it last. This case meets the law's requirement to be dealt with in Stortinget. It would be healthy for Stortinget if we took this issue a little bit more seriously than what we unfortunately are doing now. Now this case is being carried on administratively without a political assessment. We think that's a shame. We hope that the Storting will take the next opportunity to think through how we treat our watercourse nature a little more thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e170	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e173	The representative would very much like to make suggestions, and thank the president for the reminder.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e178	The representative Rasmus Hansson then took up the proposals behind the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e181	The issue we are dealing with today is a proposal from the Left on whether the expansion of hydropower in Lower Otta in Uppland County should be presented – and decided in – the Stortinget, or whether the concession to an expansion of this magnitude should be finally granted by the Ministry of Oil and Energy. On a principle basis, the Workers' Party believes that there should be serious arguments, such as: consideration of the non-accompanied biodiversity of the NVE and clear legal reasons why a matter such as this should be decided in the Storting. Lower Otta is an already developed watercourse. It has six power plants and four magazines. It's not about expanding hydropower in an area that's unaffected by power generation today. The concession authorities have made a comprehensive assessment of whether the overall burden on the ecosystem in the watercourse is in line with the principles of the Nature Diversity Act. We think that's important. We believe that the NVE has met the opponents in a good way, including: taking into account the potential for better management of river sport activities for those engaged in it today, by recommending an additional discharge of water two days a week for six weeks in the summer. A minimum water flow regime is then proposed to ensure adequate water flow for fish and other living organisms in the water. In addition, it has been met by shifting the outlet of the power plant to a place other than that originally proposed above Grindhölen — also for fish and river sports activities. For the Workers' Party, it is also important to stress that the majority of local authorities in both Sel and Vågå have recommended that a concession be granted. So the Workers' Party believes that the extension is not of the nature that the matter should be referred to – and decided in – Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e192	I was so lucky that I was invited to visit Lower Otta in connection with the fact that we saw this matter coming up, and I took the time to go rafting in the area in question. It is a beautiful piece of Norway that we now have to look at. But what this matter is essentially about is who should be able to grant or refuse a concession for the development of this watercourse. It is not given, no matter what we have to end up with today, that the watercourse is being expanded, but it is who should have the necessary competence to take these decisions, which is really to be discussed. We believe that in this case it should be up to the Ministry to take such decisions and that it is not necessary for this matter to be raised in the Grand Duchy. It is true, as has been said, that the proposed expansion of Lower Eight Power Plants after today's scale is a large river power plant – it is not so often that there are major extensions anymore, but it is also important to assume that there are no new regulations, there are no new dams, and there are no other technical interventions to be made in the watercourse. It is also true that there may be doubt as to whether there are more than 20 000 natural horsepowers, but initially there is no major intervention to be made in view of the last part of the expansion. For us, it is that we assume that the ministry will carry out a complete and thorough assessment of all parts of the matter, where the consideration of biodiversity is carefully taken into account and properly assessed. There is no reason to believe that it should not happen. We have no faith that we will necessarily make a better assessment here in Stortinget than what the ministry is able to do, based on the technical reports and the basis they have for making a decision. And it becomes particularly important – and I am absolutely sure that it will also happen – that you take the relationship to fish, birds and fauna in a very thorough and serious way. There's no reason to assume that it won't happen. It is important if we are to grant a concession – and I expect the ministry to base it on making its decisions – that this can be achieved in relation to the requirements that have been imposed, precisely in order to preserve nature in the best possible way. It's important for the Right to expand, to grant concessions, to preserve the resources and qualities that are there in such a way that, if you are going to grant a concession, it is fully preserved, as far as possible. In addition, it has also been said — and the Council of State has also announced — that there is going to be a great deal of emphasis on the fact that the activity in the watercourse will be properly monitored, evaluated and taken into account. When I was on an inspection, I was able to talk both to those who were opposed to the expansion, and to those who wanted the watercourse to be expanded. My point of view, with the opinion I had at the time, was that there was a large political majority to allow further interference in the watercourse, seen in relation to the fact that it is not protected, and that, as I said, it is part of the development of the watercourse from before. So the decision whether or not to grant a concession, we clearly think that a decision the department is able to make in a fully-fledged and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e205	There is today a clear plurality that believes that the concession and extension of Lower Otta, as is evident by the remedial measures and conditions, is not of such a nature that it should be submitted and decided in the Stortinget. A single committee indicates that concession is normally granted only if damage or disadvantages to the public or private interest are considered to be of minor importance compared to the benefits of regulation. One also underlines the need for all renewable energy deployments to be carried out in a way that takes account of valuable nature, in line with Norway’s international obligations, inter alia. to the Convention on Biological Diversity, with the aim of halting the loss of species by 2020. It is known that the parts of the hearing are shared in the view of whether Lower Otta power plants should be developed. In this context, the Committee points out that the NVE's position on the matter, dated 24 June 2014, shows that the municipalities in question and the county municipality, are in favour of an extension, while the State, organisations and private individuals are in favour. The negative consequences are mainly related to the associated watercourse environment of the Otta/Lowen system, long-range populations of hares and aure and river sports activities such as rafting and paddling. It is the concession authority’s responsibility to find solutions that adequately protect the interests of river sports, while at the same time realizing the power production plans within the framework of the department today. The Ottawa stretch is already expanded with six power stations and four warehouses. It is also clear that the proposed extension of Lower Otta power plant on today’s scale is a relatively large river power plant, but the extension does not involve new regulations, dams or other major technical interventions requiring concession under the Watercourse Regulatory Act. Any extension of the Lower Otta power plant necessitates the acquisition of rights subject to concession under the Industrial Concession Act. As mentioned, today there is a plurality that thinks that the expansion, as demonstrated by remedial measures and conditions, is not of such a nature that it should be submitted and decided in the Stortinget. The plural stands for it, and we've thought carefully through it, at the request of the case spokesman.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e220	It's been a long time since an expansion of hydropower has been tested for Stortinget. We are faced with a comprehensive case here that requires some political direction, and we think it right to support the proposal that the matter be promoted for the Stortinget. It is not given that we will go against the matter when the matter comes back, but the Christian People's Party believes it is necessary to have the matter illuminated in its full width. It is with some wonder that I see the Right and Advance Party's argument that the matter is not comprehensive enough to go beyond the limits of treatment – these magical 20,000 natural horsepowers. It is stated that the water has already been subject to a concessional treatment — as it comes from Upper Otta. I'm not an Archimedes. But I'm not surprised that the water in Lower Otta has first been in Upper Otta. The consequences for the natural environment along and in Lower Otta are not diminished for that reason. Once we have made our assessment in this matter, we have among other things. supported us to Section 2 of the Industrial Concession Act, which refers to these 20 000 natural horsepowers, and mentions the need for landfill treatment whose significant interests are opposed. The State of Oppland is ready – this will have consequences for the natural environment, flora and fauna. The nature of the area is too valuable, and the area contains the largest and most intact floodland systems remaining in the Gudbrand valley. The area has several red-listed species — species assessed as nationally threatened. The Norwegian Institute for Natural Research points to the negative impact on fish stocks, and the NHO Travel Life points to the negative impact on tourism industries in the North Gudbrand valley. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to base the precautionary principle on such a type of case, which according to the Document 8 proposal will have major natural and environmental consequences. The Christian People's Party believes that this is the case today, the disadvantages for public or private interests are of greater importance than the benefits of such regulation. We want to get a case to the Stortinget where the consequences are thoroughly investigated. Then we get a broader and better decision-making base.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e235	Norway needs more renewable energy deployment. We need more expansion of hydropower, we need more expansion of wind power, we need more expansion of bioenergy based on our forest resources. The development of renewable energy should take place more quickly than today. It has happened too slowly – it has to happen faster. If someone really thinks we're going to have a transition from more fossil and to more renewable, we have to do it faster, and we have to do it systematically. That's an important part of the so-called green shift. The centre party therefore does not want this case to take place through a new procedure in Stortinget, and we are in favour of the development. There are hardly any issues that are dealt with as thoroughly as concession matters related to hydropower development. There is hardly any area where the local authorities, the protection authorities, the ministry and the NVE deal with the matter so thoroughly and so comprehensively, and where one takes into account all aspects of the matter whether it is flora, fauna, fish or other things. So this case has been through a comprehensive treatment. There is a clear and indisputable majority for the expansion of the Stortinget, and asking that the matter be dealt with again in Stortinget is just getting a new revolution on the screw. I think that's unnecessary simply. The centre party places considerable emphasis on the fact that it is and has been a clear majority of local democratic people both in Wågå, in Sel and in Uppland County. We also stress that the Ottawa line is already built with six power plants. The most controversial expansion associated with Otta was when we discussed Upper Otta, and I agree that was a difficult and controversial decision. But this expansion is a rather large river power plant that does not require dams and does not require major technical intervention, and it has acquired fall rights that make it compulsory under the Industrial Concession Act. Furthermore, the development is not covered by any watercourse protection plans, and through the thorough management that has taken place, there is also a view of remedial measures to ensure not least the flow of water in the river. Overall, the Centre Party considers that the extension is not of such a nature that it should be dealt with in the Stortinget, neither in terms of size nor intervention. It has been through a very thorough treatment both local democratically and within the concession system we have. In sum, the Centre Party believes that this would be a positive contribution to the renewable energy that Norway needs and will develop faster than we have done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e247	No one disputes that the case has had a thorough examination of the case. That's not the question either. The question is who will take the final decision in large hydroelectric installations. And this is a huge expansion of hydropower, which in itself should make it end up in the Storting. But also for the builders, it would have given a much clearer procedure that they knew that the matter was ultimately brought before the Storting for a final treatment instead of that they would have to wait and wait for a sudden decision to be made in the department or government. So it's both the size of the case that makes this one should go to Stortinget, and of course the content of the project itself. Because, as many have pointed out, there are several extensions in the Ottawa line. But that there are several extensions, doesn't make the last stretch worth less. It can even make the last stretch in Lower Otta worth more, because – as others have pointed out – this is the largest and most intact floodland system that remains in the Gudbrand valley, and the latter is worth more, even though there are other extensions in the watercourse. There is no doubt, as it is pointed out, that there is no new technical intervention, but there is no doubt that reducing the amount of water, as the consequence of an expansion will be, will affect the landscape and reduce the value of the experience. What is the effect on fish is also pointed out by the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research that is uncertain, especially since this also needs to be assessed against other projects, and we know that the Rosten further up in the Gudbrandsdalen has also been adopted. But it's not just the size of the case, it's also its controversy that makes it should be in Stortinget. This is, after all, an area in which the County has previously proposed that the electrical circuit along with a larger part of the river system should be protected. The 2012 opinion states that: ‘It is very unfortunate that new hydropower plants are being built in the Lågen and Lower Otta main race’. It is now ten years since the Stortinget last had a case of hydropower expansion. What I'm wondering about then is what threshold you put on before demanding such matters for Stortinget. From the left, we believe that the threshold for landfill treatment is too high, and that we need a much higher predictability of what is being presented to Stortinget, too, than what is given under Section 2 of the Industrial Concession Act, where you have a claim for 20,000 natural horsepowers, which I think there are many who have problems understanding what really involves. This case is more than 20 000 natural horsepowers. However, it is also important that issues that are controversial should be presented to the Stortinget, ‘unless the department finds it unnecessary’, as stated in the law. Both this case and other issues of expansion – I can mention the Einunnavassträg, where all the establishments, including the NVE, were opposed, but a consensus was given – I believe that we need to look at this decision again, and that we need a change that makes several of the controversial issues, and definitely the large hydroelectric expansions, presented to the Storting, not because there are some who doubt the procedure and the thoroughness of the process in advance, but precisely because there is a balance between the benefits that can be derived from an expansion and the renewable energy produced, and the negative of the loss of natural values. That decision is itself – and must be – a political decision for which the Stortinget is ultimately both responsible and should deal with the individual case, including the case of Lower Otta.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e269	The time for the large hydropower expansions is over, a prime minister once said. I think it's worth dwelling on it, because in the last ten years we haven't dealt with a single hydroelectric expansion in Stortinget. That's why I think it is important to stress the question that Ola Elvesuen also asked the Council of State: What is going to happen to the Stortinge to deal with a matter? I asked the Council of State that question last week as well. At the time, we also raised the question of natural values that need to give way to hydroelectric development. The question goes back to the Council of State, because I felt that I was not getting a proper answer last week: Where is the limit for what is going to happen so that the Storting should get a case? I think that when ten years have passed since the last time we had a case of hydropower build-up against other values, namely, nature and environmental values, up to treatment in the Storting – well, then there is actually a need to get a new round in the Storing where the Storing representatives get to be the ones who set the political limit and get to make the decisions and make the balances that are needed to distinguish between the kind of values that we focus on so much that hydropower has to give up, and the natural values that make it acceptable and good for hydropower generation. I believe it would have been good if it had been done. In fact, the law is quite clear, Section 2 of the Industrial Concession Act says it very clearly: ‘If the acquisition relates to waterfalls which are presumed by regulation to be capable of being made to more than 20,000 natural horsepowers, or whose significant interests conflict, the case shall be brought before the Storting before the concession is granted’. That is what it says – the general rule is that the matter should be referred to the Storting before the concession is granted. And then there's an additional point after a comma: 'unless the department finds it unnecessary.' But the main rule is clear: if there are any controversy, it should be brought before the Stortinget, and then I again ask the Council of State: When the state's own husband, the County Council, the state's own office in the county, says that there should be no concession here, the Council of State does not believe when Section 2 of the Industrial Concession Act says that «significant interests are against each other» – that there is that kind of assessment here? Does the Council of State really feel that it is completely unnecessary to present this to the Storing? In that case, I believe that the Council of State should justify it in a better way. The question is, if this is not the case, what kind of case are we going to get? I think it's worth asking the Labour Party the same question. They said very clearly that they did not think there was any sense in taking this matter to Stortinget. Well, then it is worth asking the question: Jens Stoltenberg said in his time that the time of the large hydropower plants was over. Did he then speak on behalf of the party? That's what I'm going to assume – he was, after all, the party leader. If he spoke on behalf of the party, is the party still in favor of this? The question is, what is a large hydropower building if it is not large enough? Does the Labour Party really no longer believe that this is a matter that clearly contains different interests? At the Center Party, it sounds like we're just going to say, "Expand everything, no matter what kind of natural values stand in the way." Expand everything, and as quickly as possible – it should have been built out yesterday. To that I think it's worth saying two things: firstly, we're very clear that natural values are important. We just got a new up-to-date roster. There it is very, very clear that a number of those species, whether flora or fauna, that live in relation to the river environment, are threatened. Care for the river environment is therefore important. It is also the way that the builder acknowledges that the impacts on the natural environment, flora and fauna can be medium to large. Is there something you shouldn't pay attention to at all? The last is that the developer clearly informed that the developer is not against wholesale treatment as long as it is a decision that comes quickly. So all the arguments of the Center Party fall on its own unfairness. The main question, however, is addressed to the Council of State. If not this, what kind of expansion should come to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e289	Let me start by saying that I really appreciate that this proposal has been promoted. It gives us the opportunity to discuss the great importance of hydropower in Stortinget. I think it's important to do that. Let me look a long way back to when we started with this. When our neighbours in Europe started industrialising their economies based on coal power more than a hundred years ago, we started using hydropower. The subsequent industrialisation of Norway also made it possible to build the welfare state. Today we have a power supply in Norway that is not only renewable but also adjustable. It is unique, and it means that in a very small country, we have been able to build a sustainable but also cost-effective power system that provides thousands of jobs and is absolutely central to the creation of value in all parts of the country. The hydropower is, and will remain, the backbone of this system. It is the adjustable hydropower that will continue to enable this sustainable and efficient energy system to be built. Nor should we underestimate the importance that this power resource can have for Europe. We see that in our power systems in the Nordic countries, Norway and Sweden, but also in power systems around us, there is overproduction of power in the summer, while there is a need for power, especially power supplies, in the winter. In it, very many of the other renewable power resources play little or no role. Therefore, it is important that we continue to build up new renewable energy resources in Norway in the future. Let me also use this pulpit as the arena to say that this also means that the time for the large hydroelectric expansions cannot be over. So it's like all power generation, all energy production, affect the environment, nature and the environment. But the issue we are discussing today is the extension of an established hydropower system in a watercourse that has already been the subject of expansions, and it is about protecting the facilities that are already built in the watercourse. Lower Eighteen power plants are a large hydropower build-up on today’s scale, with 250 GWh per year, and significant impacts of power delivery also in winter, when power systems need it, and when Europe and Norway need it, among others. to phase out coal power. However, although it provides a great deal of power, it does not involve new regulations, dams or other major technical interventions either in the watercourse or in the neighbourhoods. The power plant shall be located in mountains and shall exploit the existing Eidefoss dam further up the Ottawa line. So anyway, it's necessary for Lower Otta, Uplandskraft DA, to apply for a concession for the cases to be acquired, and that's because it's determined by the Industrial Concession Act. The Act provides that in the event of the acquisition of waterfalls: «which, by regulation, is presumed to be capable of being supplied to more than 20,000 natural horsepowers, or whose significant interests conflict with each other, shall be brought before the Stortinget before the concession is granted, unless the Ministry finds it unnecessary.» This is the question that the Stortinget has invited to discuss today. NVE has dealt with this matter thoroughly, as always, and last summer gave a positive attitude to the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and there is no doubt that the expansion of Lower Otta will be a very valuable contribution to our power system. In the OED we have based our treatment so far on the positive attitude of the NVE, and like the majority of the committee, I share the view that in this matter the concession issue should be decided by the King of State Council in a very ordinary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e309	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e312	I record that the Council of State did not specifically address the natural values that can be lost when you get a lower water level. Here, it is believed that this plant is not large enough to be presented to the Stortinget. Then my question becomes: what is necessary for it to be presented to the Stortinget? The Council of State has just also taken a decision on the Einunnavassläge, where the NVE, after an equally thorough procedure – I assume – agreed to grant permission and the municipality, after an equally thorough assessment, went against it. But this matter did not seem to be controversial enough for the Council of State to present it to the Stortinget. When does the Council of State think that these kinds of issues are controversial enough to be presented to the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e317	The main reason for my assessment of whether this should be decided in Stortinget or not, I have already done so in the letter that we sent to the Committee on 10 June 2015. It says, among other things. – I quote from the letter: ‘The project, as demonstrated by various remedies and conditions, does not, in my view, lead to conflicts of interest of such a nature as to require representation of the Stortinge.’ In the same letter, I have explained how, on the part of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, we are working to facilitate the taking into account of river biodiversity – among others. fish – how we intend to follow up the question of floodplains that may be affected by this, and also how we believe it is possible to facilitate the maintenance of open-air activities and river sports in watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e327	I almost have to ask the President if there's anything we can do to get the Council of State to answer? Is there anything the President can do to get the Council of State to answer? This question has been asked a number of times, at the latest now from Ola Elvestuen, where he says: What is it for a case to be dealt with by Stortinget? I read up from the law instead, and there it is very clear that ‘If the acquisition relates to waterfalls assumed to be capable of being made by regulation to more than 20,000 natural horsepowers, or whose significant interests conflict, the case shall be brought before the Storting before the concession is granted, unless the Ministry finds it unnecessary.’;» Then we have heard that in this matter the Council of State believes that there are not enough conflicts of interest. Ok – then we know that while the County believes that the environment is troubling, and believes that it is important enough to say no, the Council of State believes that it is not enough. What's going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e337	Let me first say that I now understand why the eagerness to build out adjustable hydropower was lower in the previous government than it is in this government. I note that the two larger parties from the previous majority have a slightly different view of this than SV. I'm glad, that means we have a broad majority in Stortinget that the time of the great hydroelectric expansion is not over. As I said, I'm glad. I have explained that here we have a situation where two municipalities are for, how the county municipality is for, what a significant proportion of the hearing bodies are for, and we have a case that, in my opinion, does not have conflicts of interest at a level that makes it appropriate to be dealt with in the Stortinget. I agree with the representative Eidsvoll Holmås on one point, which is that I hope that we will get large hydropower supplies for Stortinget in the years ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e346	I think the Council of State should stay too good to drive and hoarse. I am strongly dependent on adjustable hydropower. What this matter is about is whether we should deal with this matter – since there are conflicts of interest. I understand that the Council of State believes that conflicts of interest where the environment is important and highlighted by the County Council are not something that the Council of State believes is controversial. The Einunnava stretch was taken up by Ola Elvestuen here instead. It is obvious that one believes that when the municipalities themselves say no, when the NVE says no, the Council of State considers that there are no conflicts of interest that suggest that he chooses to try out the underlying offices himself. Then the question is: can the Council of State be so kind as to answer the following questions: What is going to happen to conflicts of interest, or the size of these, in order to get these kinds of issues to deal with in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e355	It is not right for me to wonder how, on the part of the government, we will deal with any future watercourse development. Today we discuss Lower Otta. In my opinion, we have given a thorough account of this, which is accepted by a broad majority in the Grand Duchy. We have explained how, on the part of the authorities, we work along the track to maintain fishing in a biological-diversity perspective and in a recreational perspective. We have explained how it has been working both with the NVE and with us with questions about water sports, and how we work to ensure the follow-up of floodplains – insofar as it would be negatively influenced by an extension. All this in total leads us to believe that here there is no conflict of interest of such a nature that this is something that is needed to be presented to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e362	I am afraid I have to repeat the problem raised by the representative of Elvesuen and Eidsvoll Holmås, because we are here with a case that is proposed in Stortinget, and then it is referred to another case, namely Upper Otta, which legally meets the conditions that must be in place so that such a matter should not only be, but should be, addressed in the Stortinget. And then we have another example, the Einunna River Strip, where the government gives a concession for expansion despite the fact that almost all the agencies involved say no. It explicitly means that there is no basis on which the government sets the limit of natural values to count. My version of the question will then be: Will the Council consider coming back to Stortinget with a review of what are the natural criteria for large watercourses to come up in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e370	I can promise the representative Hansson that the value of large, adjustable hydropower will be an important topic when we present the energy message in April. As I explained in my statement, it is obvious that renewable hydropower has many qualities both in an economic perspective and in a climate perspective that no other renewable power source has, namely that it is possible to provide the necessary energy balance in a European system. This will, of course, be an important issue when the government presents the Energy Communication in April. I have written a letter – of course, I am fully in favour of it – but I still want to point out what a significant majority in the Stortinget says: ‘The majority consider that the development, as demonstrated by various remedial measures and conditions, is not of such a nature that it should be presented and decided in the Storting.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e382	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e387	Several have attended Jens Stoltenberg's New Year's speech in 2001, when he said that the time for the large hydroelectric installations is over. After that, we've basically continued to expand. After that time, we have also received the Natural Diversity Act, and it does not seem to interfere specifically with the discussion of major developments. It is worth remembering that a few years ago, the diesel engine was supposed to be the climate saving, actually such a great rescue that the red-greens didn't see any reason to have a reduced rate of biodiesel. Now we know better. It shows some of the time shifts we have, and we're not going to think for many years either backwards or forwards. Nature is magnificent, and it's worth thinking about long horizons here. Then I register that I am the only representative from Uppland who is engaged in the discussion here today. I guess it says something about power relationships. But here we are also discussing two major export articles for Norway. One is hydropower, and the other is travel life -- it's just oil and gas that's bigger -- and we're putting two major areas of interest up against each other, it's actually also about it. It is undoubtedly the journey life that loses in this discussion. It is important for Uppland, and especially important for this part of Uppland, and that industry always loses. The principle here is size and controversy. I think it is important that this matter should come to the Grand Duchy and that we should have this debate. Another part of the debate, which nobody has been involved in, and which I think is also very important, is the management of the enormous natural resources that we are entrusting here to the energy companies and development companies. In Uppland, their governance has been almost unique, and there have also been major discussions on how revenues have been proposed as a priority and partly disposed of, and there have been large misinvestments. I also think it is a debate that is being heard here. Then the representative of Elvesuen was aware that this is not the only extension in this region. The rust in Sel is built out. The Koiavas stretch in the Gudbrand valley is iced, mainly for economic reasons. There is no doubt that there is a great deal of interest in the expansion of the Ottawa Strip and the Gudbrand Valley. There's also a discussion we're going to take, how much of the resources in Uppland we're going to expand. When it starts at the top, according to this discussion, there's no doubt that one gets to do what one wants in the rest of the watercourse downwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e402	I think both the debate and the round of questions show that there is a need to review what issues should come to the Stortinget. We are, from the left, against the expansion in Lower Otta. But what surprises me is this resistance – also from a majority – to the fact that the matter is at all to be addressed in the Storting, because the broad majority you refer to can just as well manifest themselves in the Storting as in a refusal to raise the matter at all. I have, like the representative Odd Henriksen, rafted in Lower Otta – I was in that round. It was a great experience, which helped to consolidate my vision. But, as was also said here, this isn't just about natural resources. It's also about travel. I believe that those who have those interests, both nature protection interests and travel interests, should have a predictability of how these matters should be dealt with. Then there is something about knowing who is taking the final decision, and when the final decision can be taken, so that it can be part of a complete debate. I think it's important in an open, liberal and democratic society that that's the way we deal with it, regardless of which positions the different parties themselves fall on. The one-off migration is shown as an example — there is no predictability. One thing is to follow the NVE in this case, but there are also examples where one does not follow the NVE, and then it becomes completely impossible for those who have interests in the development, to follow that procedure, to know when it comes and could be part of a lively debate. You are allowed to make hearings, but you are not allowed to participate in the final debate and the final discussion when the parties are going to make their decisions against their group meetings. I hope that this debate will help us to look with new eyes, not at the positions you have in each case, but at who will take the decision. Otherwise, the Storting must do as we do now: you have to try to get ahead, because you don't know when the decisions in the department or in the state council will come, and you have to put in private proposals to get involved in a case at all. I see that as a completely unnecessary use of the Storting's resources. We should know that the controversial issues come to Stortinget, that the decisions are taken here, and we should know that if the issues are over a certain size, they come to Stortinget, and then we take the decision here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e413	On the left and left, it seems that there should be a case in the Stortinget dealing with hydropower expansion and whether or not the Stortinget should determine hydropower expansion. Today we are dealing with one special matter: Lower Otta. We are not discussing whether concessions should generally be given to new hydroelectric power development in Norway, so I would urge the representatives who believe it to promote a case on, for example. changes in the Waterways Regulatory Act instead of standing here and discussing Lower Otta. I believe that the NVE has met the resistance in a good way. The minimum water flow regime takes into account fish and other living organisms in the water. Biodiversity is also taken into account, the Nature Diversity Act, and there are various expert reports on the basis of which the impact on fish, birds and fauna has been assessed. In the Labour Party, we believe that there is a need for more renewable energy production in Norway: wind, water, sun, tidal water, bioenergy. The vast majority of renewable projects will have some kind of natural intervention. We have great advantages in Norway that we can exploit more, for example: water and wind. We can contribute to a greener Europe and to more industrial production in Norway. Otta is an already developed watercourse. It is not covered by the protection plan and is currently not granted without careful treatment, taking into account natural diversity, biodiversity, fish, bird and fauna in a good way. In order to achieve the climate objectives we have set ourselves, fossil energy must be phased out and replaced by renewable energy. There is a broad consensus on the Stortinget. This expansion, which may be granted concession from the Ministry of Oil and Energy, will mean that energy is given to 15,000 households. It has a lot to say about the total energy demand we have in Norway. Even if we have a surplus of power, this could help us get a greener Europe through the foreign tables, and that our industrial production is also greener. It is tempting to return the question asked by both SV and Left: Does SV and Left believe that the time of the large hydroelectric expansion is over?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e428	I'm sitting in the hall with a feeling that when you're going to discuss hydropower and hydropower expansion, everything hangs in the loose air, and that the Stortinget hasn't had a review of what things should be treated where, and how it's to be handled. I would like to remind you that we have protective plans that have been revised at least three times, precisely because one asks: what are the watercourses of such great value that they have to be protected, and what are the other watercourses that make sense that we have a concession treatment on? Then it is not by chance that the watercourses that are not regulated by the protection plan are expanded. In addition, we have said that we want green certificates, we have introduced green certificates. Why did we do that? Well, precisely because we've said that we're going to take our share of the responsibility for expanding new renewable energy, like the world's demand. We give an incentive because we also want to expand. With all possible respect: I come from a part of the country where you live from the natural resources, and I have not been involved in one thing that we have dealt with in my part of the country, where there has been an agreement that things should be expanded. Of course, when we're going to use the natural resources, there's someone who thinks it's good, and someone who thinks you should take other considerations into account. That's the way it is in this case, and that's how it's going to be in all of the issues that we're going to deal with in the future relating to the natural resources. There must be no doubt that we want renewable energy. Nor should there be any doubt that the Storting has said which rivers it is reasonable to take care of. The size has yet to say which issues should be dealt with where. Then the question in this case becomes whether we believe that there is such a contradiction that it should be presented to the Stortinget. We believe that within the framework that is here, within the systems that you have, and based on the feedback that has come, we see that the competence lies with the ministry. We think that the matter is well established in this respect. And we believe that the Department of the Council of State is able to take the decisions and considerations that are necessary to assess whether or not to obtain a concession.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e439	Let me first say a few very few words about another extension case, to which we have already given the concession, but which has been mentioned here sometimes, namely the decision to grant the concession to Einunna. One-on-one is an extension that is much smaller than the one that is the theme of the day. It is less than a fifth in size, and this was also a matter where both the County and the State Antiquities were to grant concession. I think in particular that the representative Kjeseth had some good considerations: How much of the energy resources in a region and in a municipality are you going to harvest on behalf of the big society? I have explained quite thoroughly what perspective I think we need to have on questions of adjustable force. It's a very central part of our national system. But at the same time, I believe that we should focus on what we mean in the municipalities and in the counties. In the specific matter we are discussing today, both the county municipality and both the municipalities involved are for. I believe that it speaks for Oppland and the two municipalities involved have contributed to this. Then I would like to say that I think the representative Ljunggren made a good contribution. I would like to say that it is the hydropower, the regulation of hydropower and the ability to deliver power in wintertime demand in Europe. Wind power will become important in Norway in a north-west European market in a more balanced way than is the case today, but it is the hydropower that can also play the major role in contributing to greener power supplies in Europe in the future. That is why I am glad that once again I hear that there is a significant majority that not only supports the principles underlying Norwegian hydropower management today, but is also clear that it is believed that the time of large hydropower builders is not over. I believe that this is very good for the further development of the Norwegian power system and the ability to create high values in Norway in power generation and power processing, but also to contribute to a more sustainable north-west European power system in the decades ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e452	Clearly, there are new times. In the past, it was an honorary word called "power socialist". Now there has been a ‘power centre party’, and I thought the centre party should take it up. I thought it was a honorary word, and I would like to stand by. Building out what's being built out can -- yeah, what I think makes sense, simply because we need more renewable power, and we just need it to avoid importing power based on coal. I thought we were all certain that we should get the greatest possible production of renewable energy, so that we do not have to do exactly the imports that lead to a transfer of life to coal-fired power stations in Europe. Then the representative from SV was inside the word «harselas». I have to say that I often thought it was almost branded as SV. It is not that one is free to choose if the extension should be submitted for Size or not. There are clear rules for it, and in this case with Lower Otta it is quite clear that one did not have to put her before the Stortinge, and there is also a large number of people who agree with it. Another thing is that the energy message, when it comes, will give us a good opportunity to discuss whether we're going to regulate, or whether we're going to change the hold to what's going to the Storting or not. And then finally, there's a need to go into a whole plan when it comes to expansion. Almost every year, too often, we have great injuries based on the fact that one is not willing to enter the area regulated by the collective plane. We have floods and social damage, and it represents billions of dollars because we're not willing to go in and see if we can do an expansion that represents flame protection, and we're also involved in and create values through renewable power generation. We should be willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e463	Let me just start by stressing that I am in favour of renewable energy, I am in favour of more energy efficiency – it is often forgotten when discussing these issues, but is the most environmentally friendly way of ensuring that more energy is released. But I'm also going to use this to make sure that fossil use of energy is eliminated, as we have, for example. in Norway, where most of the energy we consume is fossils, contrary to what the steady North believes. But I have three points I want to address. One is for Odd Henriksen, whom I feel is touching a little bit, because on the one hand, Odd Henriksen asks why in all the world we are going to discuss this here, because we have a protective plan to take out the watercourses that are to be protected. Then I would like to ask the question back: Does it mean that Odd Henriksen is warning that the government is going to submit a protective plan to the Stortinget, where we are given the opportunity to take in new watercourses proposed for protection, either by the NVE or by others? I have not heard any of those kind of signals from Tord Lien, as is available here. The second is that it's not that because something is not in a protective plan, it's free for development. On the contrary, we are very clear that, in the individual case, a balance should be made between natural interests, environmental interests, development costs and all the other interests to be held. Therefore, political treatment makes sense, and my point is just this: if we do not receive political treatment of controversial issues – and now we have not had this in the Grand Council in ten years – it also means that when the Council of State reviews the County Council's assessments, it also sets the precedent for the County Council's assessments in future cases. For what kind of state is it that will deal with matters in contravention of what is the current policy line? This means that we can shift the political balances towards taking less account of nature than the State has done in this case — and be overrun by the Council of State. The third point: I was going to go into Oskar J. Grimstad's posts as well, because there are no more time-consuming rules. As I read out from the industrial concession law instead, it is perfectly clear that things should be presented to the Storting in the case of more than 20,000 natural horsepowers or there are controversy, unless the Council of State believes it is completely unproblematic. It's actually not a wise rule, because what the Council of State thinks is unproblematic is actually up to the Council of State to assess. A final question to the Workers' Party: Tord Lien says that the time for the large hydroelectric installations is not over. Jens Stoltenberg said that the time for the large hydroelectric installations is over. What does the Workers' Party mean? Is the time for the large hydropower expansions over, or is it not over? Is the Workers' Party on a team with Jens Stoltenberg or on a team with Tord Lien?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e476	I understand that this is going to be a debate where one puts labels on people, like center party power builders and the like, and the councils wonder that in the red-green government, the SV was the opposite, and therefore no hydropower was built out. Can we not spare ourselves for that and discuss the expansion we are facing today? I also think you can spare yourself the argument that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås had that if one does not happen to agree with SV, is an open one for all expansion. No, someone's not. It's not the Center Party either. One of the reasons we rarely discuss major power developments in Norway now is that we have an overall plan for watercourses, and we have protective plans. There were some councils from the Central Party in the 1980s that were very important in this regard. These plans have combined to rock important watercourse nature in Norway. That is good, but we must recognise, in fact, that we need renewable energy in the future, and that some hydropower development will be positive. It will be because it is renewable, but also – as the Council of State says – because it is regulated. Obviously, this is a balance for all the games. For the Central Party, we have balanced questions about past developments in this watercourse, what technical interventions a given, how local democratic support and treatment are, and what kind of procedure has been in the various interests. We have also assessed that this has not included a protected watercourse, and we have assessed that remedial action has been taken. All in all, we are positive and do not see the need for treatment in the Storting of the case either. The representative, Kjeseth, deals with power company management, is an interesting topic – maybe a little on the page here, but it's an interesting topic. It is not least important for the Centre Party's part in relation to all the small-scale power plants that are now being sold out of the country. It's a theme that we might have taken the trouble of discussing, also in relation to the watercourses they operate on. But it doesn't seem that the parties on the Storting are sinfully concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e489	The debate has gradually turned into a cove, whether we are in favour of or against renewable energy. That is not what this debate is about, because we are all. Even the left is to expand hydropower. But now we're discussing whether some expansions are so big and so important that we should discuss them in Stortinget. In the case of the renewable component, this includes: how much we're going to harvest from that hydropower in some parts. For Uppland, it is also important to discuss which other alternative renewable energy sources we have in Uppland. Many point to the green gold, the bioenergy. Is the development of hydroelectric power in Uppland at the expense of harvesting and extracting green energy from, inter alia: the forest and other biological resources? So far, there's a lot of evidence to suggest, because it's been easy to deploy hydropower. It has been economically very profitable, and many of the expansions have also been right. But we have little pleasure in ploughing those resources back into other renewable energy production. Moreover, national authorities have not always been very predictable or particularly helpful in expanding alternative forms of energy. Something as simple as a TEK 15 now brings back quite considerable benefits on electric heating from hydropower. We've put a lot of money into investments in infrastructure to distribute the waterborne heat fired from chips, for example, so this is an important discussion. When we're into it, the central party's posts at the beginning here are at least going to become something force-socialistic, about faster, more and without special debate – I also noticed that post. I also think it might be worth spinning a little bit further in terms of understanding of the natural diversity. And the Central Party's other policies related to resource management, national park management, snowmobiles, for which it becomes free, predators, for which it is to be easy to take out, citizens for no great reason for the diversity of nature. This is a broad and interesting discussion, which has many facets. But renewable – yes. Then the question is whether there should only be hydropower, and out of Norway, or what other renewable energy sources we are going to develop in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e499	There are some people in this case who are trying to create the big principle debate on hydropower development or not in Norway. That's not what this is all about. With respect to reporting, a case has been raised from the Left, where one really wants the matter to be presented and decided in the Stortinget. That's what the committee's been working for. We've evaluated that exact ratio. Who is going to decide this matter? We have come to the conclusion, based on what we have come to understand, that it is natural for the government to decide this matter. That's really what the majority says. This is not a debate on the major hydroelectric developments in Norway. That's what we're going to do about the energy message when it comes, if that's what they're going to do there. This is not about how we are going to exploit our hydropower resources and the renewable energy in Norway, which we should definitely focus on, much more than today's government is doing. That's what we're going to discuss in the treatment of the energy message and not in this particular case. This is in a way to clarify whether it is within the scope of a comprehensive legislative framework, within comprehensive requirements on how investigations and different considerations to be taken into account and how to weigh them, it is actually decided. That is what we are considering, and then we have come to the conclusion that we believe it is right for the government to make the decision. You might think a lot about the government, but those who are most opposed to the government in this case are the Left – who have put in place this government that rules over the law that the Storting has to deal with. If you are against it, you have to do as the representative Ljunggren said, propose to change the legislation for this type of expansion in Norway. We had actually discussed how to deal with it in the future, but there are starting to be some principles where the Storting – because one does not agree with the government – wants to make the decision to the Stortinget. Then I think the best thing is to change the legislation on how matters are to be decided, and not to take them up individually. We had the equivalent in the 23rd concession round. There is a lot to say about the 23rd concession round, but it is the government's responsibility to announce, as the government has done, according to the management plans adopted by the Storting. I think it's a good thing to deal neatly with the issues when they're presented and addressed in the Storting, through the proposal that the Left has made. Then we believe that it is the government that is going to take the decision, and this is not a matter of large hydroelectric expansions in Norway, of how we are going to deal with it in the Energy Communication, or of how we are going to use renewable energy in Norway. We'll get back to that, but I really hope that the Storting can also discuss those elements on a broader case basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e510	I fully agree with the last speaker that the fundamental question here is whether we are going to deal with this kind of issue in the Storting, or whether the decision is to be taken by the government. The representatives Odd Henriksen and Terje Aasland have explained this well. At the same time, you cannot avoid commenting on any of the posts that have come. It seems that the matter is really about taking the treatment here and now in this room. It's interesting that the parties that are to deal with the matter in Stortinget are also against the development itself. It's interesting, because it's the same parties that talk very much in all celebrations about the need to expand more renewable energy, and how we're going to replace fossil energy with renewable energy. These batches share with parts of the environmental movement that they are in favour of renewable energy but against expanding it in practice. They are for environmental technologies, but against extracting minerals that are necessary to make this technology. They are for international environmental cooperation, but against effective quota markets – to mention some examples of environmental policy being full of paradoxes. In fact, if we are to be able to phase out fossil energy in all sectors where appropriate, we must also have renewable energy available. Then we also have to bear in mind that it is being expanded. There are some difficult dilemmas – I should not underestimate it – but in this case it should be fairly straightforward. Then other things have come up in the course of the debate. The representative Kjeseth spoke about the need to develop the bioeconomy. We fully agree with that. That is why the government is going to put forward a bioeconomy strategy, where we are just looking at the fantastic resources available to develop that sector more closely. Together with the Left and Christian People's Party, government parties have made a lot of exciting moves that will help build up under value creation and new green jobs in the bio sector. I can't quite see the big problem that the representative Arnstad brings up that there are people who don't have a Norwegian passport, who want to bet on small-scale energy investments in Norway. I think it is positive that we are an attractive country to invest in, including for foreigners. Like we bet in other countries, we also have to accept that other rates are with us. It is good for Norway that someone wants to bet here in the country. Finally, let me point out that it is interesting when the claim of harelas comes from the representative Eidsvoll Holmås, who is not completely unknown to carry out the kind of business from Stortinget's pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e523	I am a little surprised when the representative of Aasland calls for prudence and believes that it is a matter of course that this matter should be dealt with by the department, for which it is now a majority, and thus a basta! The case has been raised by the Left because we have a code that says that such cases can be addressed in the Storting, and it is raised because this extension meets the criteria of this legislation. Then we have a discussion in Stortinget because the law is two-sided. On the one hand, a case can meet the criteria for being addressed in Stortinget. On the other hand, it's only going to happen if the council wants to. It's a recipe for getting a conflict and a debate. It is okay that it has been chosen this way, but that means that it is not obvious that such a case should not be raised in Stortinget. On the contrary, there is a mechanism adopted here in Stortingen to deal with such issues. Why is that important? Why is this not just a single matter, but also the attitude towards large watercourses in Norway? Well, that's because such a mechanism can't possibly have a purpose other than that the Storting at regular intervals when major controversial issues arise, should be able to take the temperature of where we stand to balance the very difficult problem of natural values against expansional benefits. That's what's funny about this law. Therefore, it is a pity that the bulk of the population now chooses not to use this opportunity to take a temperature measurement where we stand in this continuous, difficult balance between natural values and development needs. I hope that the majority will go by themselves and reflect on what is the point of the legislation we have, when they want to use it, and what they want to use it for. Then I expect that the next time there's a large watercourse expansion, this problem will come up again if it's over 20,000 natural horsepowers. The best thing is if the council says yes, let's have a talk about it in Stortinget, then we don't waste time on it. The next thing is if the population tells us the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e530	Ola Elvesuen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e533	The representative of Aasland points out that we should also propose amendments to the industrial concession law. The point is that if we had known that the decision that lies here had been followed, there would have been no need for it. Because we know that expansions over a certain size come to Stortinget, and if it's controversial, we also know that it's coming to Stortinget. It's okay to deal with. The problem now is that here we have no predictability. And the Council of State should look at how to give it security, so that we know who's coming to the Stortinget. You can't just pick any statements that you agree with, whether it's NVE, it's County, or it's Municipality. Here you take those you agree to, regardless of the whole of the individual case. We are all in favour of renewable energy, we are in favour of biodiversity, and we are in favour of preserving the great natural values otherwise in Norway. I also believe that both the Right and the Workers' Party are in favour of this, and that we must have a balance of this in each case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e542	I can point out to the latter that we are for what the representative Elvesuen is for, when he took that suggestion now at the end. What I just want to stress is that I have not said that it is a matter of course that this matter is decided by the government. I said that we have balanced and evaluated the information that has been sent to the Committee in dealing with this matter, and we have fallen to the conclusion that it is right for the government to decide. So that's how I perceive the principle here in a different way. If that's what the principle is going to change, one in the law has to take away the department's opportunity to assess. So one has to take away what it says, that they and those conditions make the matter appear to the Stortinget, unless the department finds it unnecessary. Then you have to remove that opening. If that's what the Left wants, we'll have to discuss it in another kind of case, and then in a case that deals with changes to the law that apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e551	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e565	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e574	The goal of limiting global warming to two degrees over pre-industrial time confronts us with major challenges of transforming global energy systems. The two-degree objective will be achieved at the same time as the global community has set itself the goal of eradicating extreme poverty and hunger, providing decent work for all, and economic growth – to mention some of the 17 sustainable development objectives adopted unanimously at the UN General Assembly on 25 September this year. Sustainability objective No 7 is to ensure universal access to reasonable, reliable and modern energy by 2030. This will in many ways be a prerequisite for achieving the remaining 16 sustainability objectives. Renewable energy stands for only 6 pst today. of global power generation, but it is this kind of energy that needs to take on the growth of global energy consumption if we are to achieve our climate goals. This requires that we finance a strong rollout of new production and transmission – that we develop new technologies to take out the energy potential, whether we talk about water, wind or sun. It requires that we bring down the costs. In the first place, costs have to be reduced so that renewable energy can compete with fossil energy, then enough to enable the world's poorest to be supplied with energy they can afford. In this work, we need to address all types of renewable energy production. Wind power has a high potential and is an important part of the renewable energy mix that is now in strong global growth. One of the challenges of wind power is the need for land. This, along with good wind conditions, makes the coast and the sea an attractive location. In Europe we see that sea wind is being developed at a rapid pace, primarily in a bottom-up manner, but now also the first floating wind farm, Statoils Hywind Scotland, is being built off the coast of Peterhead. Liquid wind power can be extended to sea and benefit from better wind conditions, and is suitable in areas where the coast is not long-term – and there are many of the areas that will primarily need growth in energy production globally in the future. There is therefore every reason to believe that liquid wind power will play an important role globally in the future. Norway has technology and competence in floating installations at sea. It is not by chance that Statoil is building the world's first floating wind farm. On Friday the news also came that the company MacGregor in Kristiansand has been contracted to supply equipment for the park. This shows that the Norwegian supplier industry has good opportunities to take important positions in this growing market. For this to happen, technology development, qualification and demonstration are needed. It is a unanimous committee that asks the government to present a strategy that contributes to the realisation of demonstration projects for liquid sea wind in the energy notification, so that Norwegian industry can take part in development and take important market positions. In addition, the SV and the Green Party propose that renewable energy should be required to be used as wind energy for offshore energy supply. The Green Party will also have a major investment in the development of liquid wind power in Norway. I expect the parties to take up their proposals and justify them here from the pulpit, but a few comments from my side: Floating windmills are an interesting opportunity for climate-friendly energy supply for oil and gas installations at sea. That was also the background for Statoil starting the research at Hywind. Therefore, I think it is good and exciting that Statoil will now try this out with its Hywind mill connected to the Valemon field, but I think it is far too early to conclude that we are going to make this a requirement for future expansions. Norway and the Nordic countries now have a surplus of power that is largely filled with cheap hydropower. I do not imagine that liquid wind will have an important role to play in Norwegian power supply in the foreseeable future, as we have discussed here in Stortinget on a previous occasion. In today's situation, it's much more important that we get a regulated force that ensures our power needs, rather than subsidising massive deployment of unregulated power. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e596	I can subscribe to much of what was said by the rapporteur on this matter. It is that if we are to achieve this two-degree goal that is now being negotiated in Paris, it is important that we are able to supply the world with new energy. If that's something we're absolutely sure about, it's that the world needs more energy. We have to try to do it so that the energy that the world is asking for is renewable. According to IEA's figures, as I said, growth does not necessarily come to Europe. It's coming in Asia and India. It is important that we participate in a technology development that allows us to also develop renewable energy, as I said. It needs the world. Then we've seen that there's a need for drag help to develop new technology. It's enough to look at solar energy and Energiewende, and so far also wind power. So it's important in a start-up phase to also facilitate the development of new technologies so that they can become competitive. Because what's important is that we get to a technology that, basically, as the rapporteur said, initially competes with fossil energy. It's important. Then it's nice to note that we have knowledge and competence in the country to participate and expand wind power. As mentioned by the rapporteur, Statoil is now building a wind farm outside Scotland. It is also interesting to see that there are Norwegian suppliers who get contracts for anchoring and mooring these wind farms. It is also important to point out that Norwegian industry is already converting for 2.3 billion. kr within sea-based wind power. So we're in many ways in a situation where we have knowledge and competence. In addition, we are also a country that has provided good support for renewable energy deployment. Using these technology development funds also in this area is of interest. The third area, which is also very important to include, is that we can get synergies. We have great potential in Norwegian offshore technology. A growing global market for this type of technology enables us to transform and use much of the knowledge we've already acquired offshore, and we'll be able to help facilitate the development of Norwegian jobs, set up against the energy demand of the world. That's good too. It is therefore important that we can contribute to that development. It is also the way we set it, that it is important that this becomes part of, and is mentioned in, the energy message to be submitted in the spring of 2016. We should present a strategy that contributes to the realisation of demonstration projects for liquid sea winds and other sea-based technologies. We had a discussion in the previous case about the area. Actually, most of the area of this globe is sea. Maybe we haven't made good use of either the land area or the sea until now, but it should at least be the potential to develop ocean-based wind power where there are slightly more opportunities than maybe on the scarce areas we have on land. So I think it's also important to get to this kind of development in what's going to be a Norwegian project, and with what's now happening outside Scotland, where our state-owned company Statoil is now developing a windmill, that we see that the entire North Sea Basin is part of our home area, where we can get a development along with commercial actors to make it as profitable as possible in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e617	The government has announced that it will present its own Energy Communication in spring 2016, and I expect this Communication to include strategies and instruments to enable Norway, as a nation, to invest in renewable energy production. Wind power, land-based as well as sea-based, is one of many areas of activity. Norway is well advanced in the production and consumption of renewable energy. Much thanks to hydropower, Norway is less dependent on alternative renewable energy production to achieve its renewable target than most European countries. However, if we are to maintain our role as a major exporter of energy in the future, we can benefit from building up the renewables side, and in this way we would like to link up with new transfer capacities to the continent, or to the United Kingdom, so that Europe too can achieve its environmental objectives. There is a potential for research and development and that alternative forms of energy production can contribute to value creation and employment in Norway for exports to the rest of the world. The Progress Party is committed to focusing and focusing in Norway on knowledge and competence in the academia as well as in business, through research and development for future value creation. In the context of the Energy Communication, the Progress Party supports the intentions for a strategy that can contribute to the realisation of demonstration facilities and/or liquid sea wind projects and other forms of ocean-based renewable technology. We want a debate in and around the energy communication that focuses on the whole of energy policy, including on liquid sea winds. The wholeness is important in energy policy, and it is far more important than doing this fragmented and divided, as we see the Greens very often do when they promote their Document 8 proposals on the Storting. Finally, it is a paradox that every single time the Greens and the SV disagree with the majority in this room, concepts such as ‘small health’, ‘small justice’ and ‘harselas’ appear. No democracy is completely perfect for her, but it's a long way to prefer as a system to other authoritarian alternatives. There are obviously some people in this room who have not brought with them at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e630	On the part of the Christian People's Party, the post is just a brief comment, because in this case we agree with the other parties that we need our own strategy for sea winds, and for the Christian People's Party, it has been important that this be seen in the context of the energy message. Just as the case we are dealing with today on zero-emission journeys, this is a contribution in the green direction. If we are to be close to limiting global warming to 2 degrees, we need to convert energy use from fossil energy to renewable energy globally. At a time when many people are out of work and unemployed, this gives hope for jobs needed in the supply industry in the future. Norway has an excellent starting point from Norwegian offshore technology, and industry is already investing in various projects. Both Statkraft and Statoil are engaged in major expansions. But more have to be on the field. Governments, especially in the start-up phase, must then also contribute to the development of offshore wind power. This should be done by strengthening the research environment and by combining requirements and positive instruments through, for example: Enova. The Christian People's Party supports the Committee's recommendation and sees this matter in the context of the Energy Communication. We are asking for a strategy that implements demonstration projects and that highlights the opportunities offered by offshore sea winds for the supplier industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e639	This is an important and positive proposal from the Greens/EFA, and it is also very important and sensible for a joint committee to agree on such a large proportion of comments and proposals. Sea wind has a high potential, and it is likely that there will be particularly high levels of liquid sea wind. We see that it is in the beginning in several countries, and we see several good pilots who can help develop the technology further. Statoils Hywind is not least important in that context. But there's a lot of work to do before you can use it on a larger scale. It's going to require targeted work, it's going to require clear strategies, and it's going to require not least a lot of capital to develop this as an important and significant energy source. Sometimes when we discuss the relationship between offshore industry and renewable energy, one might be a little in doubt: how much transmission value could it be? That discussion has often focused on Statoil’s role in renewable energy. However, in this area a possible transfer value can be seen between offshore technology and renewable energy in the form of liquid sea winds. And one can see a role for the Norwegian supplier industry and offshore industry that is more significant than what it has been, and possibly can be, in terms of other renewable energy sources. It's going to take a lot of money. The centre party believes that a demonstration pilot is needed for the technology, which also looks at the possibilities for the supplier industry in this context, and we are very pleased that a unanimous collapse is called for to oblige the government to develop such a strategy. Then the Centre Party is involved in a proposal that deals more specifically with the question of the use of sea wind in terms of energy for oil field pressure support. It is not true that we believe that demands must be made, but we ask the government to assess whether this type of requirement should be made. That makes sense to the Center Party because it will provide the government with the basis for a broad review. We believe it is important that the government looks into whether it is right and possible to impose the kind of requirements that can also require the development of renewable energy, such as liquid sea wind, in terms of installations and not least pressure support on installations. So we have not concluded that demands will be made, but we agree with and ask the government to assess whether requirements are necessary and correct. I think it is very positive that we choose to agree on as much in the document 8 proposal that we are dealing with today. This treatment also looks a little towards the energy message. There is no doubt that there will be many very important issues to discuss in the Energy Communication to spring, and that it will be an important matter for the individual parties, but also for the Committee and the Stortinget. This matter really merges into the broader picture related to the energy message.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e652	Does the President then see that the representative has taken up the proposal she referred to in her statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e655	I have done so, on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e660	The representative Marit Arnstad then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e664	I would also like to say that it is very good that we have a unanimous committee that is behind the main decision in this matter, and that we are now getting a force behind the further work in the Energy Communication afterwards, so that we can take one step further after having had one plant with one sea windmill, and that we can now get up demonstration projects also in Norway. Because the potential is enormous and the need is enormous. Now the world's leaders are gathered in Paris to cancel a new climate agreement. Europe shall reduce its emissions by 40 pst. by 2030. Other countries have obligations, and there are obligations that need to be reinforced in the years to come. When we look at the total energy use in the world, it's about 110 000–115 000 TWh. Very much of this is fossil energy, and it is clear that as one solution for producing new renewable energy in large quantities, liquid sea winds are a great opportunity. It is, as was also pointed out by the representative Arnstad, an area in which we have a competence built up through the oil and gas industries, which we can now use to be at the forefront of the development of sea winds. Statoil has already shown that they are in the front line, through its project in Scotland, and by letter from the Council of State it is stated that Norwegian companies are already involved in sea winds internationally in the order of 2.3 billion. kr. So here we can really talk about a green shift, by taking the skills of the petroleum industry and exploiting it in the development of sea wind. There are some countries ahead, and there is a lot of development work that needs to be done before we can get a technological development that is good enough and strong enough and also at competitive prices. The United Kingdom has a stake, in Japan there is a lot of sea wind, and it is clear that Norway, both with the wind resources we have, and with the expertise we have, has an opportunity here to take part in an international effort and investment that will come in the years to come. For Norway, this is primarily a policy on nutrition. As we pointed out in the debate we had in the previous case, we have a surplus of renewable energy in Norway today. The main challenge is to put that energy into use, so that we reduce our specific emissions, so that we also reach 40 pst. reduction by 2030, while this is about having a new economic development in which we will be taking part in the international investment that needs to be made to reduce the world’s emissions in the order of magnitude necessary to achieve the two-degree target. It's a formidable task to go on for decades to come. In order to develop this, launching demonstration projects can have a much greater impact than the size of the projects themselves would have in the years to come. Here we are doing an international and global innovation work. So to the proposal of the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Central Party. The left is in favour of the comment and shares the intention behind the proposal that we should also look at how we can use liquid sea wind in the petroleum sector, especially in the case of pressure support. We are not involved in the proposal itself, we believe that this investigation is also covered by the proposal that the whole committee is behind in that we should look at this in the Energy Communication. We are also uncertain whether we agree that Enova should play a concrete role towards the petroleum industry. But the intention we share most. In the end, it is important when talking about ocean-based renewable technologies, that it is not only about wind power, but also about wave power and tides.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e679	I am very pleased that today's unanimous decision is taken on sea wind, and I would like to pay tribute to all parties and to the rapporteur who has got this through. Over the last decade, we have had support schemes to develop prototypes. I have been involved in promoting both research and development. We've been doing a lot of research on this, and we have a research program on it. But it's just to admit that different ministers – including from the red-green government – have had different engagements with what's about sea wind. From Åslaug Hagas' very clear commitment, where she saw that this could be something that could take the oil industry over for a new time, to Ola Borten Moes's more cold shoulder against offshore wind and very distinctly no, this was not something to bet on, and to Tord Liens' slightly unclear feedback on this. Now I am happy to hear the article to Tord Lien, and I perceive that this is something that has now been updated. Among other things, because of the decline in oil industry, we all see the importance of ensuring that we seize the opportunities we have to transfer skills from the oil industry to other industries, and we should seize this opportunity. I can see that the whole Storting agrees, and I would like to congratulate you on that. Even I wrote the master's thesis on offshore wind in 2007-2008, and I looked at the possibilities of using oil competence to do just this. It was particularly interested to look at floating wind, precisely because there were so many other actors involved with bottom-up installations. I think one of the advantages we have is just to be involved in taking the extra step where there aren't already many other market players. But I just want to say right away that I think that when we say what we are now saying from a unanimous growth, that we are asking the government to put forward a strategy for the realisation of demonstration projects for floating sea winds and other forms of ocean-based renewable technology, this must just be the first step. A strategy that stops the demonstration projects is a worthless strategy. Because if we look at what has happened in Europe, we see – and everyone who has worked with industry knows – that you can produce a prototype, you can get the first full-scale project. In this way you can get the skilled technology, but if you get the energy competitive, it requires a longer run. See, for example: on solar cells: the first prototype solar cells existed for a long time, but it was only when Germany decided to say that we are now providing support over a low shoe – to ensure volume and prices drop through learning curves – that they were able to ensure that this became competitive. I would say that solar cells and solar power are Germany's gift to humanity, because if they had chosen to stop by a demonstration project, or by a technology development, we would never have been where we are today, that sun is competitive with coal and all other fossil energy sources. So that's why I say, this is good, but we have to have it as a first step in a longer race. On the SV side, we have put forward half a billion in our alternative state budget. It is necessary to make sure that the money is put on the table, because it is only when the money comes on the table and the concrete tendering procedures for the actors come, that the real interest is also coming. So let's say I label it. in the context of CCS, these are the concrete things that drive technological development and the operators dare to invest. With half a billion, you're going to get a little bit on your way. But just remember, the first mill at Hywind cost 400 million. kr. They received aid of between 50 and 60 million. kr or something like that – possibly something more, but in that order of magnitude – so here a proper technology approach has been taken by Statoil. And I think that if we look at ourselves in the mirror – I don't know if we can see each other in the mirror – and look at the situation we have, that is, that the business development project Hywind is not being developed further in Norway, but in Scotland, it tells us something about the support schemes we have had to develop this Norwegian technology, and the industry, has not been strong enough. I'll stop there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e699	The Green Party has put forward two proposals, both to set up a demonstration park for floating sea winds, which research environments and industry have long called for, and to put in place a major effort to develop liquid sea winds in Norway. Of course, we are very pleased that the Storting will now unanimously decide to set up a demonstration park, or that at least there is to be an investigation and a case of this in the Energy Communication. There is one thing that characterises absolutely all major Norwegian business development, whether it is historical in terms of fishing, forestry, shipping, whaling, fertilizer, metallurgical industry or oil and gas: the industries are based on large Norwegian natural resources and Norwegian competence, organisational capacity and technology. It is this that has made it possible for us to develop large sectors with profitable jobs for many people. In all cases, it has provided for political will to organise on a large scale. Right now we know first and foremost of one major remaining, unused Norwegian resource, and there is wind energy at sea – there are many more, but we know it. Everyone agrees that Norwegian maritime competence and technology, Norwegian energy competence, etc., place Norway in an exceptionally good position to be a leader in the development of liquid sea winds, and we have developed two very good demonstration mills. But further development of this requires great and early efforts. For the time being, it is unprofitable to produce wind power from floating installations, just as it was very unprofitable and inefficient to produce wind power on land, solar power and electric cars, etc. a few years ago. But these technologies have become reasonable and effective. It is thanks to the political will to bet, also here in Norway. Liquid sea winds are also not profitable and competitive in the United Kingdom, but there are developments due to political will. Liquid seawinds are going to be profitable. It's just a matter of time and volume. The fact that Statoil has resumed its sea-winding and is now increasing in Scotland, with a view to then growing in Japan and other markets, really tells us everything we need to know. The development of offshore sea winds is now taking place. The question we are considering here in the Grand Duchy is to what extent Norway will take part in that effort. Yes, it is true that Norway has an eloquent leap and that there is currently no clear demand for Norwegian sea wind power in other countries. But we know that we are on our way into a future when Norway, and not least the countries south of us, will have a much greater need for renewable technology. We know that the planning of a new European electricity grid is underway. The question Norway needs to address – and I am looking forward to new, good thoughts about this in the Energy Communication – is how Norway positions itself in relation to such a future, and how we want to influence it with our own offerings. The fact that we are now – at least here in Stortinget – signaling that we are willing to bet more offensively on floating sea winds is important, because it is one of the areas where we have great opportunities. This is also a very good example of the relationship between the will for research and the will to support innovation – of which it is a good part in this government’s budget – and the real effort. For in the case of liquid sea winds, technology has evolved, and then the question is: Are we – Norway – willing to take the next step, which is big, heavy and capital-intensive, but crucial – namely to get commercialisation going? It is now happening in Scotland. This is currently not happening in Norway. It should concern all those responsible for developing the jobs to which 300000 are going to go in the oil sector. Because it's the kind of big stakes, and the willingness to move technology from the testing stage to the commercial stage, that's crucial. Norway is involved in this in Scotland. We need to do it ourselves here in Norway to get the green jobs here to land.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e714	Does the President assume that the representative should make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e717	The President is so right, as right – as usual.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e722	The representative Rasmus Hansson then took up the Greens' proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e725	Let me take this opportunity to thank both the rapporteur and the other members of the Committee who have spoken for their good and reflected contributions. Let me remind you anyway of the debate we were having. The fantastic hydropower resource, together with increased renewable energy production in Scandinavia, has made it impossible for us, unlike the countries around us, to have a major need to phase out highly polluting coal power or increasingly cost-effective nuclear power. We're based on the principle that we build the most efficient power resources first. It has given us a power system that facilitates value creation throughout the country. That is the background to the letter I wrote to the Committee on 12 October this year. I am pleased that most – if not all – who have spoken have been very clear that a sea wind strategy is primarily a nutrition strategy and not a power strategy. I am pleased that the Committee attaches great importance to the fact that marine wind investment in Norway must be focused primarily on research and development in the future. I just want to comment on the proposal of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. It's divided into two, really. On the one hand, we already have a tight framework in place on a Norwegian base that forces companies to work purposefully using low-carbon technologies, to keep energy consumption down, to keep emissions down. On the other hand, the second part of the proposal, namely whether or not to support the use of this type of new technology, is already in place. This government has also strengthened Enova’s ability to support such projects. So I disagree with both parts of the proposal. I believe that the second part of the proposal has already been implemented through the last year's budget. So I want to say that this market has grown. It has grown, among others. due to large subsidies, mainly in Germany and the United Kingdom. But it's not like we're not in – because we're in. This is driven primarily by companies with oil and gas backgrounds. I've written in the letter that it's 2 to 2.5 billion. kr it was exported for last year. I can say that that figure is going to be far, much higher this year – only individual contracts from the Norwegian oil and gas supply industry to individual projects in Europe are worth more than the entire value of last year’s exports. It is companies such as Statoil and Statkraft that are at the forefront of being an operator of sea wind, mainly in the United Kingdom. And there are companies like Aibel, Nexans, now MacGregor – as the representative Per Rune Henriksen mentioned – Fred Olsen and ABB are in this industry. Of course, Hywind, as Statoil is now building, is also a very exciting project. It is the result of many years of targeted research and development efforts, all the way supported by Norwegian authorities. I would also like to mention that the government is already preparing joint calls for strong maritime research clusters, strong renewable energy research clusters, oil and gas research clusters and research programmes in the Norwegian Research Council – also an important contribution to bringing out the best synergies of these research communities and these highly competent industries in Norway. With this, I can only confirm that I am going to take the Committee's wish for a strategy in the field of offshore wind power with a nutrition policy device with me in the further work on the energy communication, which we are presenting in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e746	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e749	It's always confusing to discuss excess power, because we have a surplus of electricity, as the representative Rasmus Hansson said. We produce about 130-140 TWh of electricity a year with our hydropower – of course with fluctuations – but we have fossil consumption of 170-180 TWh this year. I expect the Council of State in the Energy Communication – with which he has promised to come, and which the Storting has decided to come – to come back with a strategy for phasing out fossil energy, and that he there will look at how we in all the world are to be replaced by all this energy. Offshore wind can be one option, but it's obviously not the main way to replace it. I could imagine asking the Council of State questions about the position of the sea wind in new green certificates. I interpret the signals from the different big parties to that after 2020 there will be no more green certificates. The Council of State sees that a new support regime can be put in place, such as: can contribute to the technological development of offshore wind?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e756	I have always tried to be clear that if we are to build more sustainable energy systems – both in a climate perspective and in an economic perspective – in the future, which we have to do, we need to continue to strengthen the efforts on research and development of both the production of energy and the use of energy, which I know the representative Eidsvoll Holmås is concerned about. As far as the issue of green certificates is concerned, no decision has been taken on it by the government. I have been clear that we see a power system in a very severe imbalance, not just in Norway. It's right, as the representative Eidsvoll Holmås says, that in a normal year we have a net export on the other side of 10 TWh to Europe. But there is an imbalance that is present across north-west Europe, creating challenges for our power system.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e763	I am fully aware of that very question of green certificates, and that the government has not made a decision. I just interpret the representatives of the largest parties, including the government parties, to the point that there are at least many who are eager to drop it. I would like the Council of State to come to the Stortinget to discuss this with us, because I disagree with what the Council of State says about sea wind, and that this is primarily about research and development in the time to come. If we look at where Statoil is with the Hywind project, we're not at the research and development stage. We're at the commercialization stage. This is just about taking our arrangements further from being support for pilots to the first mill. Sway, which is an offshore wind company that made floats in Bergen, got e.g. support from the State to both build and scale up the pilot project. But going from there to commercialization is what requires capital, and that makes sea winds able to float, to say it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e769	It is the Stortinget that has introduced the scheme of green certificates. It lasts until 2021, and when I have said that I am going to provide an energy message with a perspective for the period 2020-2030, first and foremost, but also with some thoughts about the period 2030-2050, it is quite natural that the Stortinget is invited to discuss the device and any subsidy schemes in the period 2021-2030 and possibly after that. I repeat what I said instead: I note that the level of subsidies in many of the north-west European countries has brought our power systems out of balance and weakened the profitability of significant power resources, which means that, as a society, we get less back on the resources that we should ideally see. This means that there will be fewer funds to finance schools, homes for the elderly, etc. Of course, there are perspectives I'm going to include in the energy message.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e776	We have a large surplus of power in Norway on renewable energy, so investing in sea wind is primarily economic development. But as the proposal shows, it is not just sea wind. Reference is also made to both wave power and tidal use. And I guess we have an area at Round that's dedicated to testing wave power. We have a company in Arendal, Flumil, that wants to test out the use of tidal water. This also has a transfer value from both the maritime and petroleum sectors. My question will then be: What are the views of the Council of State on the possibilities, opportunities for development and possible actions within the other renewable energy sources that can be developed at sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e783	I take note of the change in line – to my great delight – that we do not disagree so much about this. This does not only apply to the Left and Advance Party, because I must almost bring the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås and SV into this agreement as well. If I'm going to draw out something that's a good part of today's certification system, it's just that it's technology neutral and market-based. That principle, I think, we need to get on with it as well. We have to create frameworks and systems that make it those technologies with the greatest potential that actually receive support from Stortinget. It may be from a global climate perspective or from a national energy perspective, but the principles should be based. I believe that what we are already doing, namely putting together research environments and creating joint programmes between maritime, oil and gas and renewables, is an important tool for precisely identifying where we can get the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e792	Developing new renewable technologies can to some extent be compared to picking all the apples on a tree: it is okay enough to have as a strategy what is the Norwegian strategy now: to develop and apply the most profitable technologies first, but to pick the apples that are at the top of the tree, you have to start to find out at some point how to make a ladder, and it might be a good idea to start making that ladder early — it requires some resources. It's a little bit where we are, in relation to the next generation of renewable technologies as well. It is interesting to look at the great European perspectives that dominated the debate on sea wind a few years ago when Energy21, etc. was developed in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. At that time, the relationship between Norwegian large-scale offshore energy production and European users was an important perspective. What I'm asking is whether the Council of States can say something about what one now thinks about sea wind – in addition to the Norwegian local energy surplus – related to the need for renewable energy that we know will arise in Europe in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e801	As I said in my reply to the representative Eidsvoll Holmås, I think it is important that we recognise – at least the government makes it very clear – that with regard to the goal of developing more sustainable energy systems, including in a climate perspective, we need to continue research efforts on renewable energy, which my boss, Erna Solberg, announced in Paris yesterday, when we joined the US Energy Research Initiative Mission Innovation in COP21 in Paris. I'm not completely familiar with the description. Now that the Norwegian-developed technology, the Hywind project, developed by Statoil, is going to be the first – one can discuss whether it is large or not – the floating sea wind farm, which is to be part of the energy supply in a country, is being installed off the coast of Scotland, it is being done by a Norwegian company, and that is the technology developed in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e808	The question is therefore: does the Minister of Energy see any future in the large scale Norwegian sea index port, energy export, into a European market, given that the EU is now developing plans for how to meet its renewable energy needs for a time perspective of 10–20–30 years, where large Norwegian offshore energy resources can clearly be a potential contributor?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e813	I see a huge and profitable potential in that we use the Norwegian power resource, whether it's wind or water or bio, to help our friends in Europe deal with power imbalance. I think that's going to serve us all very well, and I also see a significant opportunity to continue exporting Norwegian technology to Europe to take on force based on sea winds, especially in those countries that are already well underway. So I think we have to recognise that there is a solid distance between the power prices we see in a 10-year perspective in the Norwegian-Swedish or Nordic power market and the costs of producing a kilowatt-hour sea wind. I think those costs are going to go down in the long term, but there's something coming up in time, I think we have to count on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e820	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e825	I just thought I'd say a few words toward the end of this debate. There is clearly broad agreement on the potential for jobs and industrial development in the context of the roll-out of liquid sea winds globally in a larger market, and that we should address research and development tasks, continue the work that has been done politically and by the authorities with Hywind, and ensure that we can get good positions as suppliers of this type of energy. Then there is clearly disagreement about the extent to which the development of liquid sea wind will have a place in Norwegian energy mix in the future. It sounds like this is a matter of political will. The representative Hansson says that there is political will on the British side, which is why floating sea winds are being developed outside Scotland. Well, the point is that the British have a power deficit that they have to fill. There's a political will to bet in a way to do this, but the driver is the power deficit. In Norway, we do not have a power deficit, on the contrary. That is why there is no political will to pump on with more expensive power to fill an even greater surplus of power than what we have in Norway per day, as it looks. I agree that there are some exciting views for the future of producing direct power for a European market. But it's still too early to say that this is something we're going to spend money on and bet on today. I believe that the primary task we have now is to help develop technologies that bring costs down, so that they can be used elsewhere than in Europe and also outside the OECD, because the use of energy is going to increase. Finally, I would just like to turn to the representative Eidsvoll Holmås’ characterisation to alternate oil and energy ministers in the government of which Eidsvoll Holmås himself was part. Åslaug Haga had great visions as state councillor, Terje Riis-Johansen as state councillor made sure that we got the Sea Energy Act in place, and Ola Borten Moe in his time as state councillor made sure that there was an impact assessment and received it, but none of these ministers could do anything about the profitability of the development of liquid seawinds in Norway. We can't do that here in Stortinget either. We need to ensure that we have a cost development that makes participation profitable for Norwegian industry so that jobs can be created.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e838	I just want to start by answering Per Rune Henriksen, and say that I'm actually not out to give grades, because I don't think this is a competition for what you do best. But I mean seriously that there's a big difference in the commitment of different politicians to different technologies, for different visions. Some say "drill, baby, drill," some say we're going to the North Pole, and others say we're going to make sure that we take Norway over to the renewable society. I want to say that there are quite different political engagements, but I don't want to give any character to the different politicians. We could say that there is agreement, and we could say that there is disagreement, but I just want to point out three simple relationships. One is that what we are adopting today is that we are going to get a strategy for getting demonstration projects. Always remember that research and development is at the beginning. There we can implement, and there we can get technology leaps. Demonstration projects are in the middle. There we can document and make sure that a technology works. But commercialization is what is cost-intensive, and it makes it possible to bring down prices. So those politicians who think that just you come to demonstration projects, we're in the goal, they're wrong. To make sure that something is withdrawn from being a demonstration project and to make it competitive on prizes, we have to go through the entire commercialisation project, and there are issues of political will, as we said instead. Germany was willing to take the job of bringing down the solar price and making it commercial – competitive with others – and that is why it is also political will. Will we be able to pull sea winds from being something we are able to show as a fine demonstration project, to something that is actually competitive in price? I want to say I have that will. It's not safe for everyone else to have it. The second is that it was mentioned here that it is important that the green certificates are technology-neutral, and in this context, Tord Lien said that if something else would happen, it was an important premise. So I just want to say that you lose the whole positive effect that you have, if you evaluate different technologies according to how far they've come in maturity. If you are concerned with industrial development, there is no point in subsidising hydropower or wind power as much as offshore wind power. So if you're interested in business development, you have to support offshore wind power more than the others. I see that the Council of State is nodding, and I am very happy about that. The last one goes on that very question of whether we should make demands – or support – to get offshore wind angled up against the oil. I was to give a separate talk on this. I don't get to do that. I just want to say that DNV GL, together with the oil companies, is doing a huge job, and I think they need it pushed to get evidence to the oil companies that this is a technology that works.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e853	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e867	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e874	I would like to thank the Committee on Construction and, in particular, the Government fraction, which has led us today in the Grand Duchy to decide that all future ferry offers for the 113 county ferries in the country should be operated with zero-emission or low-emission ferries. I would like to thank the Labour Party for addressing the matter by promoting a number of other proposals. It was the red-green government that initiated a development contract for low-emission ferries that ended with Norled submitting tenders based on an aluminium-based Elfferge on the Mountain Beach yard on Omastrand in Hordaland. We asked the government for low emissions, but the innovators went further and showed that zero emissions beat the competitors for both emissions and costs. SV submitted a proposal last autumn that all future tenders where technically possible should be zero emissions. In our vote, the major parties voted against, but in the meantime, the Left and Christian People's Party had a positive impact on the use of zero-emission and low-emission ferries on the 17 state highway connections. Unfortunately, the government did not use the opportunity to impose strict environmental requirements on Bastøferga so that we could get a low-emission or zero-emission ferry there. But today we are united on this common promise for zero-emission and low-emission ferries. I'm very, very happy that we've got a unanimous big deal on it. I had conversations with the shipping company and the yard when I had the opportunity to visit Omastrand in Hordaland. There's interesting information. The investment costs are higher for zero-emission ferries, but the operating costs of an estuary are 85 pst. lower than for ordinary dieselferger. That is why I would like to stress the need for long tenders. If the tenders are short, the paid-off dieselferger will win. If the long, low-cost ferries will win, despite the need to make investments. DNV GL has produced a report for Energy Norway that estimates that 52 ferry connections can be electrified. Many are very profitable, others need support to upgrade networks. Bellona and Siemens report estimates that seven out of ten ferries can be electrified. In any case, it is clear to everyone in the Committee that the potential for zero-emission technologies and vulnerable jobs in the yard industry is something we need to see in the context. Battery prices are falling. The more ferries we get built, the lower the cost. It is also important for the yard industry to fill the order books well in advance. Therefore, the Government is asking the Government to ensure that tenders are rescinded so that there is time for development. The proposal we are adopting today is not just about ferries. The imposition we bring to the government also applies to scheduled boats. We also correct the government's course by establishing that natural gas is not a low-emission technology. I would like to stress that this is a matter that is not just about new construction of ferries. Conversion of ferries into the existing fleet will also be significant and the Committee concludes that strict requirements for local emissions should be imposed. To this end, the Committee would stress that the NOx fund scheme must be continued. For my part, I would like to stress to the government that it is urgent to clarify this so that shipping companies know that they can apply for the NOx Fund and that the NOx Fund has the opportunity to grant applications. I hope that the Committee will have the opportunity to come back to this in the context of the budget. It is contaminated by 3,3 million tonnes of CO2 in domestic shipping. 400000 are from ferry operations and 1,7 million are from other short-haul and scheduled vessels. That is why there is an important decision today by the Stortinget when the Committee asks the government to come back with a case on how to promote low-emission and zero-emission technologies in short sea shipping. It was a development contract that started the whole Elffergeballet. Development contracts for hydrogen ferries and other zero-emission ferries are what the Committee wants, and I hope that the Minister of Transport can answer that he will follow up in the near future. I just want to finish by saying thank you to Mountain Beach and Norled who dared to bet and thus bring the Norwegian shipyard industry and world shipping one step further towards the fossil-free society. I hope the Fjellstrand yard gets more assignments in the year that comes. The sooner the government does the job of making claims to the county councils, the faster the job could be done. I would also like to address the minority proposal to which we are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e918	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e921	First of all, I would like to stress what the rapporteur said, that it is very good that the Stortinget as a whole joins in the idea of how the future related to ferries, scheduled boats and to the extent that short sea shipping is also going to evolve in a direction of zero and low-carbon technology. As a whole, the Committee is united on this principle of technology. But the first thing – as it was also promoted – is more than just the principles. It is true that the case-rapporteur said that the proposal was promoted following an inspiration from what the report on DNV-GL, prepared by Energy Norway, actually contained, the possibility that 52 ferry routes in Norway could be electrified. That was the one side, with the climate and technology opportunities and what's in that track. The second, which was also related to that report, and which is a nerve in time, is the available capacity of our maritime industry. There we know that the order books are completely empty. Therefore, some of the motivation behind the proposal was, first of all, to clean up the technology, continue the technology trail and get better climate positioning and more climate-friendly solutions in this form of shipping. But the second was to take advantage of the available capacity at the yards today, and the available capacity in the competence environments. The latter, in our opinion, has not sufficiently addressed the Committee. I think that's a little sad, because it's now possible to supply some tenders, build some new ferries or rebuild them, just to get the activity going in a low economic cycle. Within one of the jewels, perhaps, in the Norwegian business and competence environment, just maritime, we are in real danger of losing valuable skills and action to meet the future and, not least, of finding the good technological solutions. Let's see. Why doesn't the majority end up enough about it? We say in our proposal that it is essential that tenders are speeded up in time. I think the vote and the majority are too weak on it. They have correctly made a formulation that says that ferry offers are announced as early as possible without a contract being concluded. There should have been a little opposite sign here, so that you actively encouraged that contracts and tenders should be published earlier. The second element that is not strong enough in the setting applies to the relationship with those who will receive that inspiration. Then there is no doubt that the main owners of ferries and ferries around are the county municipalities and, in part, the municipalities. However, when the municipalities or county councils do not receive sufficient guarantees from the Storting that the additional costs pointed out by the case rapporteur can be accepted from the State's hand, at a time when the State really needs that activity, they naturally refuse to go further. One ends up waiting for the situation so long that the race is far off, or one has lost valuable competence in the industry. There is undoubtedly a setting that is too weak in that range. Finally, we believe from all experience from other types of industries that it is now right to be clear that a obtains standard contracts and a defined system for this type of acquisition. Nor has the setting been adequately maintained. So in sum, we agree on a lot, agree on the technology track, agree on the possibilities that lie there, but unfortunately, after the summary, we have to recognise that the instruments and the actual commitment of the Storting to accomplish something are too weak. It has been confirmed at the latest since the case rapporteur shakes the head of the purchasing authorities both in the district of Hordaland and in the municipality of Sogn and Fjordane. It must be committed to, and it is a unique time opportunity. We haven't had such high unemployment since the 1990s. It is mainly within the maritime and petroleum sectors with valuable competence to solve these tasks, where the availability is greatest and the order books are empty. We could do even more than we did. We could follow up on the track that the case rapporteur had in mind in the previous case, just to contribute the State money.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e938	The time has come, but the representative shall be allowed to comment on proposals No. 1 to 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e941	Yeah, I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e946	The representative of Terje Aasland then addressed the proposals No. 1 to 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e949	The world’s country is now united in Paris to help address global climate challenges. Norway travels to Paris with significant contributions to international efforts to reduce emissions globally, but Norway also travels to Paris with great ambitions to reduce emissions here at home. In cooperation with the EU, Norway shall reduce emissions by 40 pst. by 2030. This includes, inter alia: Norway needs to carry out large emission reductions in the transport sector, and the government and the cooperation parties are well in the process of implementing a number of measures that will contribute to this. There is now more investment in railways, walking and cycling paths and public transport in the big cities than ever before. There are measures that over time will give good effect and make it easier to leave the car on both short and long trips. The tax advantages for electric cars have been extended and changes in car charges that place much more emphasis on the environment than in the past will now be implemented. The placing on the market requirement for biofuels is increased to 7 pst, up from 3,5 pst. when the government joined. Biofuels are now exempt from user charges and fossil gas user charges have been introduced. This has been decisive in ensuring that the spade is now immersed in what will become Europe's largest biogas plant in the Forest. Governments and cooperation parties also agree to invest more in charging infrastructure for electric cars and vessels, among others. through a reduced electricity charge for ships and charging installations, and a separate hydrogen strategy will emerge in the Energy Communication presented in 2016. The maritime sector is suffering from excessive emissions in Norway. The coastal fishing fleet alone consumes about 400 million litres of diesel per year, and ferries, scheduled vessels, offshore vessels and other major ships contribute significantly both to greenhouse gas emissions and local pollution. The government announced in winter that green shipping would be one of the main areas of activity to reduce emissions. Enova followed up with its own green shipping programme and has been given substantial resources to implement a bet. Switching to low- and zero-emission technologies in the transport sector was a central theme of the Sundvolden Declaration, and it is gratifying to see that the Stortinge has concluded on this strategy. Investment in this sector can both contribute to the necessary emission reductions and can also contribute to work, activity and conversion in the Norwegian economy. The ferry needs to be renewed, which can ensure more activity in Norwegian shipyards. In general, Norway has a high potential to further develop the competence and activity of environmentally sound ship design and advanced technology solutions that contribute to reducing emissions. An example of the fact that this investment is already beginning to give rise to new activity is the plans to set up a factory to produce batteries for transport purposes in Trondheim. On state highways, zero and low-emission solutions will be available for all new tenders in the future. This work is well under way in the state road system and two new tenders have been invited to do so. In the county sector, the government will now assess what measures must be taken to ensure that these ferry routes are also operated with zero and low-emission solutions in the case of new tenders and on routes under their own control. We have a wide range of tools available, and it is important that this is reconciled, so that we get what we want. Experience from the «Ampere» river ferries shows that the economy of zero- and low-emission solutions can be good. Electric motors are efficient and cheap in operation compared to internal combustion engines. However, electric power is not applicable everywhere, and both hydrogen, biogas and other sustainable biofuels are relevant. It is essential that new ferry offers are made available as early as possible to ensure a good time for all actors to plan the phase-in of zero- and low-emission solutions and the construction of new ferries where appropriate. So to Aasland's post: It is alarming that a representative from the Workers' Party believes that we should terminate contracts that have not been concluded, at the significant cost it will entail, instead of simply renewing the requirements for technology or phase-in new technology when the tenders run out. When the representative of Aasland believes that the government and the majority of the committee do not want to bet strongly enough, I think it is a very unfortunate policy on the part of the Labour Party, and very cautious that they are proposing. The Socialist Left Party proposed this weekend that we should make our own climate agreement for the transport sector. I believe that the blue-green batches are already well under way with the transition to zero- and low-emission solutions in the transport sector. A great deal of the cooperation parties are now implementing, we proposed already when the climate agreement was negotiated in 2012. At that time, the red parties wouldn't be on our high level of ambition. It is gratifying that they have now turned around and supported the cooperation parties' policies for emission reductions in the transport sector. Finally, let me thank the rapporteur for a good cooperation on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e968	This proposal for a representative contains proposals that the Right-front party government has already stated in its government statement more than two years ago: ‘The Government will draw up requirements that all new public vehicles, and all new taxis, ferries, scheduled boats and diesel trains, use low or zero emission technologies when the technology so requires.’ This was also confirmed by Stortingen's call-up decision in autumn 2014. The background is climate reconciliation, with the aim of reducing Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions to 45 to 47 million tonnes in 2020. In 2014, Norwegian emissions were 53,8 million tonnes. National emissions from the transport sector account for about one third of Norwegian emissions, and the objective of the climate agreement is to be achieved, transport emissions are important in order to achieve such a level. Furthermore, the Storting has decided that Norway should assume a joint commitment with the EU of at least 40 pst. reduction of emissions in 2030. This objective includes reductions in the non-quota sector up to 40 pst. as self-reliant targets, where reductions from the transport sector are identified as decisive to achieve this objective. In the Emission Reduction Notice, environmentally friendly shipping is one of five inputs. Let me just underline public purchasing responsibilities, where quality and environmental requirements can be set. Public – state, state and municipality – as major purchasers of transport services, should go ahead and submit to their supply of low and zero emissions where possible, including: with Enova as active partners. Ferja "Ampere", provided by the Mountain Beach yard, is a pilot project within the Elerft that is very exciting and will form templates for more holiday runs in the future. Let me take this opportunity to praise the MRF ferry company, which long before the incitement lures them to it, chose to invest in low-emission technology, namely the "Glutra" ferry, which runs on gas and has done so since it was delivered in 2000. The same Reiarlag, then called Reiarnamed Fjord1, later built five gas ferries, which run in E39 between Stavanger and Bergen and three in Romsdalsfjorden. As the Council of State writes in its letter, today there are 13 LNG ferries operating. In this context, it is also important to point to the NOX fund as a very important player in order to put these low-emission vessels in place. On transition from diesel to natural gas as a fuel, NOX emissions are reduced by approx. 90 pst. Virtually all emissions of particles, such as smoke and soot, are removed and all emissions of sulphur. Furthermore, the CO2 emissions will be reduced by 25 pst. Fjord1 is also the world's first ferry company to use biofuels of the HVO type for the propulsion of ferries, and it will be started from the end of 2016, as requested by the contracting entity. So there's every reason to praise those who lead, and that's been Fjord1 for many years. When the requirement in the future becomes zero emissions, the technology will, in my opinion, also be the solution, alongside the electric one, which is applicable on shorter distances. Hydrogen will be able to supplement electricity as an energy source, and the transitory country Japan has already pointed to the importance of hydrogen – not only in transport but also in stationary energy supply – in order to decoupling energy production and greenhouse gas emissions. Especially in Norway, hydrogen could play an important role in different contexts of the energy system. For example, wind farms can in principle be regulated by hydrogen production, and it must be interesting where one has limited network connectivity potential. Technology development through the Energy and Transport 2025 programme of the Research Council, plus Enova's investment, will, in my opinion, be a powerful tool to put in place future energy solutions with low or zero emission technologies, and shows that today's government is taking this seriously. The development takes place quickly, so that in a few years' time, through cooperation with a forward-looking business, about 200 ferries currently in service will emerge as a brilliant example of services performed with technical solutions that represent the low-carbon society we are all aiming at today. In the case of short sea shipping, it is also on the way to the establishment of a charging and charging regime that rewards those who have the innovative and environmentally friendly solutions, with lower unloading and port charges on board low-emission vessels. In the end, although there is no theme in this case, the conversion of car charges is also now such that municipalities should be able to look at their car fleet and make sure to order hybrid or battery-powered cars as their contribution to the low-emission society. We are gathering on this important measure, and it shows that environmental technology-based calls are quickly taken up by shipowners and shipyards. As we know, and which is also mentioned by others here, there is free yard capacity that is ready for this kind of assignment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1014	It is positive that an overall committee is behind most of the decision-making points in this important matter. Minister of Industry Monica Mæland presented the government's maritime strategy earlier this year, where the government is clear on conversion to the use of more environmentally friendly fuels to solve the environmental challenges of shipping. Shipping shall carry out significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution. The document 8 we are discussing today is well received both in the maritime sector and in those who have expressed themselves on the climate and environmental side. Yeah, it was just supposed to be missing. This issue is a concrete follow-up to the action area of the 2030 Climate Goal Communication New Emissions Commitment – a joint solution with the EU. The use of zero-emission technologies will be one of several contributions to cutting emissions in the transport sector. Norway, with its 130 Norwegian ferry service, where 52 of these can be electrified, has a unique opportunity to demonstrate responsibility for emission reductions in the non-quota sector. If all of the 52 sections – and big thinking is allowed – are replaced by electric ferries, it will cut 40 pst. of the emissions of all domestic ferries. That must be the goal. There are many ferry offers that go out in the years that come. Many of these ferries are between 30 and 50 years old. Even I come from the ferries More and Romsdal, and here no less than eight sections will be profitable for elves. At a time when many people in the maritime sector are out of work and out of work, this offers new opportunities and hope for the future. This will give badly needed jobs to an industry that in many places is so low because of the oil crisis. The decisions we are making today are an important signal to the ferry companies and those who are making tenders. This is positive both as counter-cyclical measures and not least for environmental reasons. I would like to talk for a long time about all of the points in the decisions that we are going to take today, but will highlight the importance of III. Here we ask the government to consider whether it is necessary to introduce own grant schemes aimed at the county council or to further strengthen existing schemes for the use of new technologies in public tenders. Yes, such green conversion may increase the costs of the county and predictability is important. It is therefore positive that Enova already supports conversion to low- and zero-emission ferry and scheduled boat services. This is an important priority in the future. It is also important to make demands on nutrition. This is how innovation is further developed, and the goal must be that Norway too will be world leader. It will be interesting to get this case back with the government's assessments. The Committee has promoted ten important points and given clear signals, not least in the light of the government's own maritime strategy and the expectations of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1032	It is very positive that a total increase today will be combined on as many roman figures as possible for the development of zero-emission technology in ferry transport. Then I am a little surprised that both the Workers' Party and the Right choose such a divisive rhetoric in a matter where we stand together about as much as we do in this matter. I thought I would give recognition to the Workers' Party, which promoted the proposal for a representative, to the government parties that have joined so many of the proposals and thus provide a solid basis for the follow-up that must take place, and to the case-rapporteur for the great job he has just done to get together the committee. I think that is very important in a matter relating to the transport sector – one of the crucial sectors in terms of national emission reductions in the years ahead. Instead, we experience in a way that people come with a little bit of snowy rhetoric. The representative Astrup, for example, takes the time to talk about what the blue-green people might do, and that they're doing well. And yes, they are in many areas – for example. an aeroplane seating charge that very few of the batches will now acknowledge in retrospect. But can we not use this matter and this debate to actually discuss what is gathering, rather than the kind of rhetoric that the representative Astrup came along with, and that I – in and on my own – also contributed a little to right here and now? What is important, however, is that the Committee stands together on a total of nine proposals for Roman Numeral Decisions, which provide clear commitments for the follow-up of zero-emission technologies in ferry transport. It is important, as I say, in terms of emissions, but it is also important because we then point out that our marine environments, which are innovative and have strong cooperation traditions, can help to create new technologies and thus also be part of the solution to climate issues. Whatever the outcome of the climate negotiations in Paris, we are going to face high demands for emissions reductions in the transport sector, a sector that represents one third of Norway's emissions outside the quota sector, and which is therefore crucial for achieving the objectives we have set ourselves. Then I think it is good that we have gathered on the proposals that we agree on today. I also think it's good because we see that there's a lot of businesses in oil-related industries right now, and these discussions we have about zero emissions in ferry transport, are also a discussion about tools that you can use to remedy that situation and convert part of it. We agree on a number of proposals. Then there's one of the suggestions that I think will be more important than many of the others. That is what you do to counties and municipalities, because it is to a large extent where there will be a challenge with regard to the use of public procurement and tenders. There is no doubt that this is a very important tool, especially with regard to county councils, but we also need to consider some of the additional costs that a zero emission requirement can lead to. Therefore, the Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party, makes a proposal to establish a grant scheme aimed at county municipalities for the use of new technologies when they come into force, so that additional costs are covered. In sum, I think it's very positive that you see a broad consensus between the parties in an area where there is often a great distance. That's a good promise. It promises well for the steps that must follow the Paris climate summit, namely a process in which we define more clearly how, how much and in which sectors we are going to cut nationally. In the view of the Centre Party, it is the transition to a targeted concrete and practical policy that is important, and we see the Document 8 which we are dealing with today, as a first step towards it, and as a very positive step towards an important sector. Then I could also have mentioned a few of the individual proposals. I'm just going to mention one thing: Elf ferries also in many ways and many places will require an enhanced power grid. So what we also need to be aware of when new demands are being made is that we ensure that we have an infrastructure that will enable us to develop this sector precisely based on electricity and renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1051	We're going to reduce our emissions by 40 pst. towards 2030, and everyone knows that a large part of it has to be taken in the transport sector. If it's just 40 pst., or higher, we'll have to look at the negotiations with the EU. However, what Norway is now doing in the transport sector, in addition to its own reductions, could also be significant beyond its own borders. For now we are in the front line – one thing is the technology development that we are also raising in this matter, in the maritime sector, but another is the framework conditions for zero emissions also in other areas of transport. What has been done in recent years – this period – is that we have now decided that there will be zero emissions in public transport by 2025. We have the opportunity to impose environmental requirements on taxis – that matter will soon come back to Stortinget. We allow cities to set zero emission and environmental measures in environmental zones – that is the decision. We have removed the user tax on biofuels, biogas is made competitive, and we have incentive schemes for zero-emission vehicles, electric cars, which no other country is near. What Norway is doing is something that can be of much greater importance than exactly the emission reductions we get here. In this case, it is about moving forward in relation to zero and low-emission ferries. It's a pleasure that there's unanimity, because it's the way that the parties on the Stortinget kind of struggle a little bit about how many decisions we're going to have. Following the previous budgetary negotiations, last year, we adopted zero-emission and low-emission ferries on the national road network, and it is well under way that the Council of State is implementing. In this case, it is primarily about making the same demands to the county councils and municipalities. I agree with the objection from both the Workers' Party and the Center Party, it is clear that you need to look at measures and what cooperation the state will have with the counties and municipalities to achieve it. But it's nothing different than the demands you make to get zero emissions elsewhere in public transport. It's going to be more expensive when you're going to have low-carbon and zero-emission technologies, and then we're going to have to find good support schemes and good cooperation solutions to get it done, just like we have reward schemes on public transport, where it's also going to be more expensive to achieve environmental goals in the future. So I think it's a little weird that you don't take part in the committee's vote on VIII. That proposal is really the most crucial precisely to both order the government and to give a clear indication that we should have low emissions and zero emissions – and not just on the ferries. The speedboats are also mentioned as an important part of the proposal. Otherwise, we give clear guidance on the shortship fleet. Is it a field where we can really have a technology development – it is good for Norwegian shipyards and the Norwegian maritime sector – it is within the short-seat fleet, where we need a replacement, and we need a national management to get it done. This whole matter is very much about getting emissions down. It's about being in the front line internationally, but it's also, to the most extent, a field where we can support under a Norwegian industry development in the maritime sector, where we can be at the forefront. So a couple of smaller things, I was about to say, but that's not it. One is the Committee's view that natural gas is not to be regarded as a low-carbon technology; we must have greater ambitions than just switching to natural gas. I fully agree with the representative Oskar J. Grimstad that it's interesting to be hydrogen, what opportunities you also have for production, and for using hydrogen in the maritime sector. We also have a point here where we want to look at reducing the electricity charge to ships that are in business. I am pleased that in the budget agreement concluded between the government, the Left and the Christian People's Party, it is included, and the committee will have the opportunity to look at it again. And finally, also to the agreement in the budget agreement, which states that: ‘all new taxis, ferries, cruise boats and diesel trains use low or zero emission technologies when the technology so requires. Requirements and measures shall be in place by 1 January 2017.’ Now the Storting takes big steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1073	In this case, I think that both the proposers from the Workers' Party, the case rapporteur, Eidsvoll Holmås and the government have made a good contribution. We are now getting a broad majority in the Storting to significantly increase the level of ambition in the field of not only zero-emission ferries, but more. Although the parties have chosen to support slightly different sets of proposals, and despite the discussion we have had about it to some extent in this Chamber, there is considerable agreement on the main features. It concerns the concrete measures for zero-emission ferries, but it also applies to overall visions for the transport sector. It is worth noting that a joint committee, perhaps at a slightly euphoric moment, has agreed to conclude that ‘a zero-emission visa must be introduced for the transport sector in Norway’ and ‘Norway must be the leader in introducing new technologies to reduce emissions in the transport sector’. The fact that the Storting now states that we should have a zero-emission visa for the transport sector in Norway means that packages of measures similar to those we adopt for zero-emission ferries today must also be put in place for other types of shipping, in the case of road transport, construction machinery and, of course, something else that is currently popular – aviation. It's very positive that the Storting gets on the track with these kinds of visions, because that means that the Storting follows up, at least in words, the ambitious level that is now beginning to be adopted in climate policy in many municipalities. In Oslo and Trondheim, for example, a now adopted climate target which in practice means that the zero-emission vision for the transport sector will become a reality by 2030. It is precisely the adoption of an offensive policy on zero-emission solutions in ferry transport that prevents us from binding on polluting technology for many years to come, and therefore the time aspect of this is very important. What we adopt sends a clear signal to the states, and this is a matter where many investment decisions are to be made in a short time. Therefore, it is also important that the government follow up these decisions quickly and efficiently, so that the county councils and other actors get the predictability they need to take the leap they are now being asked for for more environmentally friendly solutions. Many will follow these decisions closely in the future, both in business and in counties and municipalities along the coast. In this case, we have chosen to support a slightly unusual majority consisting of everything from the Advance Party and SV to the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, with the exception of the proposal to introduce a larger programme for technology development in low- and zero-emission technologies, where we are working with the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party. We see that the other proposals from the Labour Party, which we do not vote for, have a more binding wording on some points, but we believe that the need for an overall, broad and predictable majority behind this position was so great that we therefore support the majority. In addition, in this matter, we regard the government's willingness to cooperate as such as obliging us to believe that the Progress Party and the Right will expand the sleeves and take the necessary steps in this matter. We look forward to the continuation of an exciting cooperation on the zero-emission vision, not only for ferry traffic, but for the Norwegian transport sector. Finally, I would like to remind you that some county municipalities are currently in a situation where they experience uncertainties related to the NOx Fund’s ability to provide support for environmentally friendly ferry projects to be realised between 2018 and 2020. I hope that the Storting through the budgetary process will help to remove this uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1100	This has been a debate in which most people express that you agree on where you will, and that is good. I am pleased with the support one gives to each other, and as one gives to the government in the work that is partly already in progress and shows results. I would remind you that the Declaration of Government states that: ‘all new public vehicles, and all new taxis, ferries, scheduled boats and diesel trains, use low or zero emission technologies when the technology so requires’. So this is part of the government's strategy, and the fact that the Storting is thus discussing how to implement it, and many of the details around it, I think, are good. We already see the results of this work. When the Road Service now announces a new tender for Anda-Lote, the environmental technology requirement is central. One has said that at least one of the ferries should be elf ferries. On the other hand, other technologies can be used, but low-emission and zero-emission technologies are therefore required. So there's sometimes a tendency to turn open doors in here when one gives the impression that the Storting has to make a decision to get one going with this. There's no need for that. But it's good to get the confirmation that everyone wants in the same direction. I recall what I have also written in the letter to the Committee, that when new national road and ferry connections are announced, the Vegvesen already makes a thorough analysis of the suitability of the link for zero and low-emission technologies, so that they are set out in the tender documents when they are announced. It is important in this context that tenders are made early, so that the ferry companies and yards have plenty of time to design and build both the boats and to have them in place within the tendering period. It makes no sense if we have to hurry off the farm, so that you get left-handed work and there are usually delays. Then you do not give the good thing an advantage. There has also been a lot of discussion in this debate about county ferry services. I also recall the information given in the letter to the Committee that the Ministry of Climate and Environment has already commissioned the DNV GL to investigate how zero-emission technology can be realised for county ferry services. So also there we're starting to figure out how to do this -- not just about, but how. As this is about a little more than just ferry routes, it's also about shipping, and it's about the yards, I remind you that in the budget and through the work through Innovation Norway, we have put in place a subsidy scheme for environmentally friendly new buildings in shipping. It's about the state being involved and taking some of the risk, making private shipowners more willing to invest in environmentally friendly construction. We have also put in another thing that the shipping industry has wanted for a long time without having received it, namely a subsidy scheme for the confederation of ships. These are things that I remember today's government parties and supporting parties when we put in opposition, put into many of our alternative budgets without having a majority in favour. Now it's part of the country's policy through the cooperation of the four parties. Changes have also been made in the case of environmentally friendly ships, with lower taxes on the part of the country. We have made changes that make it more attractive for short sea shipping through the Fairway Licensing Scheme and through cut-off of the bulk emergency charge. There are also measures that you have requested for a long time, even when today's four governing parties were in opposition, without having had an impact on, but that we are now getting in place. And in the 2016 budget, the electricity charge is to be low when using power from land to ships in business. And that makes it more attractive. So, on the tax side, on the legislative side and on the grant scheme side, a number of actions have been taken by today's majority to achieve exactly what we are discussing in this matter. That's why I'm very pleased with the decisions that come here, which show that it's a very broad magnification, and a total accumulation in many cases, that work for this. I was in San Francisco a few weeks ago. There I met Norwegian maritime entrepreneurs, if we could call them that, and I met, among other things. Tesla, who has become very good at making cars based on battery. Seeing how we can cooperate with good battery manufacturers both in vehicles with rubber wheels and in other ways is important to me when we are helping to further develop the shipping industry in Norway. Contact with technological and entrepreneurial environments outside the borders of the country is an important part of that work. Then I remember the last time that the leader of the WWF, Nina Jensen, whom I hope someone here has a very good relationship with, in the newspaper yesterday, says that the government deserves praise for the measures the government has taken, especially in the field of transport and renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1131	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1134	One of the behinds of the proposal is that you want to take advantage of a time window, just to materialize some of the words that have been recorded over some time in terms of development and concrete work at the yards. On the basis of what has been adopted in the past and what is now adopted, can the Council of State explain to the Council a little bit about how it is possible to speed up the tendering process, if necessary, how to increase the speed of ordering new ships – in addition to what has already been said? How will he actually take advantage of the situation that is now there? I do believe, and hope at least, that the Council of State agrees that there is cause for concern about the situation of Norwegian maritime industry now in, and that in a very short time you may lose valuable competence if nothing is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1139	The concern about the situation in the shipyards and in the maritime industry we have been communicating for a long time. That is why we also put forward a green maritime strategy – just to show how one can secure jobs for several Nordics on ships, to ensure that Norwegian shipyards develop, and Norwegian shipping companies develop. Ensuring the net pay scheme better terms has been something we have fought for too long, and for which we are now starting to get an impact. One has had improvements in the net pay scheme for the first time in many, many years. We also included in our package of measures, which we presented before the budget was presented, that we should intensify the maintenance work on Coast Guard ships, we should speed up the work on research ships, speed up the work on Coast Guard boats, just to create activity. Talking about today's challenges in the yard being solved by building new ships for years to come, creating no jobs now. Jobs are created in design offices, but not for those affected by low activity. It's important to take the grips that get... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1146	Aasland - for line number two.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1149	There are a lot of words that are basically positive towards industry, towards technology and towards materializing part of what is the possibility of Norwegian maritime competence. Nevertheless – despite all the words being said – the concern is the same. The Council of State understands this, and what will the Council of State now do about measures to reduce concerns along the Norwegian coast, which are increasing for each day? It's about the employment of engineers, it's about the design environments, and it's about those who work directly with steel on the yards and assemble the boats. How's the activity going to get back on track? What will the Council of State do? It's good to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1154	I didn't just mention words, I referred to many proposals that are actually promoted by the government, both in changes to the charging system, in better grant schemes and in regulatory changes. These are concrete things. What I miss is to see how the Workers' Party responds to this. So far, what I've seen, is a 50 million grant scheme. kr. Everyone knows that it's a symbolic amount that wouldn't have generated a single ferry contract in the short term. At the same time, when we announced Anda-Lote – something that should have been known even before the Workers' Party made its proposal, even if they do not refer to it at all – we have said that several new ferries should be built on new routes. Anda-Lote has one ferry today, there must be two new ferries there. We have said that over Björnafjord and over Boknafjord there must be five–six ferries running in the future, towards three–four today. All of this will generate new contracts. There's a lot of concrete happening. What is important in order to create jobs today is not the ferry to be built in a year's time, but it is the maintenance work and the contracts you can get in place immediately. That's where we deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1164	I hear what the Council of State says in its reply. But at least I registered the joy, the significance and the optimism when we made this proposal. It is clear that the skilled, rich industry actually represented by the Norwegian maritime environment has not seen similar activity grants in the past. On the other hand, the Committee has been informed very clearly that this proposal is important. One of the important things I feel is that you are trying to speed up some of the tendering procedures – not canceling contracts, but looking at opportunities to speed up some of the tendering processes. Then my question to the Council of State is whether he will take initiatives towards the counties and municipalities that have ferry routes they use, to consider, if necessary, the possibility of speeding up their tenders, based on the possibilities that are established and that can be established.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1171	I have, before I became a politician, a professional background from the shipping company Leif Hoegh. I know the shipping industry quite well, I know the long-term they have, and how important it is that the yards have a mission. That's why it's so important that we get a lot of the grips I've already mentioned. I have said earlier in my post that what the Storting is now discussing and proposing is very good, because it fits well with what the government is doing, so there is no gap between the government and the Stortinge's desire for where you want to go. It is also important for us in oil and energy policy to ensure that we have a stable framework for the oil and gas industry, because that means that one will be able to maintain activity on the yards by having more than just the ferry routes to be repaired. But, as I said, in the grant scheme that Innovation Norway now has, a person will be able to take risk-absorbing from short sea shipping and develop new technologies. We have already, as I have mentioned, said that on several national road connections we will have several ferries, and we have announced bids in many places, so there is a lot going on. I would like the Workers' Party to take it over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1180	I choose to refrain from a polemics against the Council of State, linked up to the fact that it actually needs a roll-out initiative to ensure zero emissions for taxis and zero emissions and low emissions for the ferry, because I think it is so good that we are all able to agree on this. Instead, I want to ask the Council of State a question related to the issue of gas and low emissions. The Council of State budget provided that the use of natural gas was considered to be low-emission. The Committee and the Stortinget have now said that we believe that natural gas is not a low-carbon product. I was just wondering if the Council of State could explain how he would follow this up in the further work on the follow-up to this decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1189	Let me first take the representative with him: a polemic about low emissions and zero emissions from taxis is not necessary, because it is already stated in the government statement. I can read it one more time. The Health Declaration to the Government of today states that all new public vehicles, new taxis, ferries, scheduled boats and diesel trains shall use low or zero emission technologies when the technology so requires. I think it is very good that SV refers to debates and decisions in Stortinget, but there is something the government had decided already in Sundvolden that was a policy we were going to implement. So I would like to say about gas: Gas is a low-emission technology compared to bunkers. There is then no doubt in my mind that on the routes that the Road Administration, environmental organisations and everyone else say require too much speed, or where there are too long distances in relation to what today's battery technology can deliver, it makes sense to have gas rather than to have traditional fuel.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1198	Three things in 1 minute: Firstly, we say that natural gas is not a low-carbon technology, in the Committee's view. We now know, as Oskar Grimstad was also involved, that ferry companies have begun using high-quality biofuels as an alternative. I'm assuming that the committee counts as zero-emission fuel. I would advise the Council of State to follow the committee in this area. The second is that yes, it is very nice that someone has been written into the government statement that we should have zero emission drosses and zero emission ferries, but we only notice that when the Municipality of Oslo wanted to be able to claim zero emission drosses, they clearly got no from the Ministry of Transport – until Abid Raja and signed a proposal on it and they realized that there was a majority for it in the storeroom. Then they crept to the cross and decided to follow the government statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1207	The last thing I take as a claim, but I remember that what we pointed out was that there were by then very few car types that delivered electric cars. This would give you a very distorted market, and the taxi industry also pointed that out. So you see that evolution is much faster than you thought. It doesn't go as fast as SV thought when they were in government and wanted to ban petrol cars in 2015, but instead pushed inwards with diesel cars in the same cities where we now have major problems. Developments are going in the right direction; there are more and more electric cars on the market. It also means that you get more with larger and larger penetration in the market, and so things go in the right direction – and it's much better now than it was a few years ago. So as far as the government statement is concerned, there are two parties that stand behind, but with very good cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, with which we discussed in the Nydalen. So it's been and is an ambition, and we're implementing that all new vehicles, all new taxis, ferries, scheduled boats, everything I've mentioned, are going to use low-emission and zero-emission technologies. And then we can try to have a polemic about who was first and what things, but the documents here are pretty clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1218	I am very pleased that since the Council of State did not mention anything more about natural gas, I expect him to follow what is the recommendation from Stortinget, i.e. not a recommendation, but clear observations from Stortinget that natural gas is not a low-emission gas. To diesel: So now the state council has been sitting for more than two years as a state councillor, but he hasn't yet lifted a finger for it, and I haven't heard him say anything about his desire to reduce diesel in Norway. Let me ask the Council of State a question instead: we say from the committee that we want to continue the NOX scheme. This is extremely important for the long-term, because if the shipping companies, as the Council of State said he knew well, should dry up to bet that they actually get the opportunity to, among other things. to rebuild ferries or bets on zero-emission ferries. Can the Council of State say something further about how the government intends to continue the NOX system, and when you're thinking of fixing it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1233	Firstly, it is the Storting that decides on the budget and the content of the budget, so if you believe that the Storting has opinions on NOx schemes, it is now time to adopt this. The Progress Party and the Right have both been very positive to the NOx scheme because when a first fee is due, there is a charge that is earmarked for reducing emissions, rather than simply filling the treasury. In principle, from our parties, there is a system that has worked well. Then I'll come back to this with diesel. There were many hidden clues here. We've been pretty clear that diesel cars are not lucky in urban areas. I remember that the first question I asked the Swedish Minister for the Environment in 2006 was why SV and the red-green government thought it would make sense to reduce the taxes on diesel cars, which were banned in California. I think one finds this November 6, 2006. It shows that we thought it was a bit strange politics the red-green government led, but they still chose to implement it. Now we see the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1246	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1251	Electric ferries have proved to be a concrete and good example of how public procurement is both good climate and environmental policies and good industrial policies. We know what we will achieve, namely a safe and good transport service for travellers, at a low cost and at the same time with minimal emissions, preferably no emissions at all. So now let's challenge the industry to deliver these solutions to all public transport services. The short sea shipping fleet is particularly suitable for electrification. Renewal of an old and impeccable ferry fleet is also a good measure to ensure the activity of a supplier industry and yard with empty order books and experiencing a flow of skills as a result of a difficult market situation. We therefore need to ensure that when new holiday contracts are concluded in the coming years, low or zero emissions are required. Industry has demonstrated the ability to overcome barriers in terms of infrastructure and electricity networks. For example, “Ampere” – the ferry on the Lavik–Oppedal route – has a battery bank installed on land that gradually takes power from the grid, and then quickly transfers the power to the battery package on board the ferry under land. Wärtsilä at Stord has even developed a wireless charging system that can transfer 1 MW without cables in a short time. Are there any of us politicians who thought it was possible? So let's now make sure that both the state road and county authorities can challenge the industry to extend even a little bit longer. We don't have time to put down many selections and create long layouts. The announcements are now being made, and the county authorities must be confident that additional costs will be compensated by the state – either through Enova or directly from the State budget. Similarly, the supplier industry needs to have good support and funding mechanisms in its technological development, and here we are talking about tools throughout the innovation process. At the same time, we know that new environmental technologies need not be more expensive than conventional fossil technologies. The experience from Lavik–Opedal suggests a reduction in energy costs of between 70 and 80 pst. Energy efficiency is a good store for shipowners' layers and for county municipalities. However, the county authorities need help to get started, and the setting and the Workers' Party's proposals, including these 50 million. kr in the State budget, shows how this should be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1269	Let me begin by contributing to the pleasant atmosphere by thanking the Committee for a good piece of work related to the proposal that has been put forward. For the Workers' Party, the large-scale investment in transportation that we started when we were in government has been important. There has been a systematic increase in investments, operations and maintenance in the national transport plans submitted, and we have also been careful to follow them with concrete appropriations. We want to keep doing that big thing. This will provide a basis for increased visibility, better safety and environmental considerations for the Workers' Party's transport policy. Climate change we all describe as one of the greatest challenges of our time. The transport sector accounts for approx. 30 pst. of the total Norwegian emissions, and therefore action within the sector is central to reducing emissions if we are to achieve the objectives we need to achieve. Technology development, public transport and the development of environmentally friendly means of transport are therefore key actions under which we want to support, and this proposal is at the heart of it. It has been mentioned several times in the debate, but the potential is great: the report by the DNV-GL, which is also mentioned in the committee setting, shows a potential, and Bellona and Siemens have combined a report that was published this year, which shows an even greater potential that we need to explore. It is a fact that most ferry connections are in the county municipalities, and then I think the council is very passive in addressing the invitations that come with regard to how we put county municipalities better able to meet the challenges and help cut greenhouse gas emissions. The county councils, like the state, experience a huge increase in the cost of ferry and fast boat offers. It's urgent economics, and then there's few incentives to test out new and assumedly expensive technology. Although the experience with «Amps» is good, there are nevertheless challenges related to technology. In my own county, Nordland, we have had – let's say – mixed experiences of testing gas ferries, it has not only been a sunshine story. This uncertainty is also an obstacle for county councils to take the necessary promise. Because if it's a cheek egg that both cuts emissions, renews the ferry fleet, has good economy and the ability to strengthen the Norwegian maritime industry, don't bite the county municipalities at it. It's about that we also have to facilitate it. In this context, incentives are needed to provide for the replacement of old ferries that are already over-ripe for replacement, but also measures to strengthen the general county economy, so that a greater part of the risk can be taken into account, so that national efforts can be made to achieve a modern climate technology that can be the basis for increased competitiveness in the maritime industry and which, not least, contributes to addressing the climate challenges that we have to face.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1283	It is good to see that there is a great deal of consensus about many of the important steps to make transport more environmentally friendly. In my opinion, it is a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry that we impose strict environmental requirements through public tenders. It helps raise awareness of the challenges we face and the development of new technologies in Norwegian companies. With a lower activity in the petroleum industry in the coming years, stringent environmental requirements will help Norwegian industry and Norwegian technology to adapt to new markets and contribute to change, activity and new growth. I will focus primarily on ferries in this post. The government is applying low and zero emission technologies in the call for tenders in the national road transport sector. The new bid for Anda-Lote is an example of this. The size has also been clear that low- and zero-emission technologies are to be taken into account in future tenders. I record that the representatives of the Workers' Party are concerned that we should speed up the tenders. It is in my opinion to be a little overly overly expensive and will have a significant cost, as it is already under contract. There are probably ferry offers both on the national road and on the county road to be renewed in the years to come, without having to impose additional costs on ourselves by suspending existing tenders. This means that it is better to use resources in other areas, such as: technology development. A large proportion of county ferry offers will be renewed in the coming years. Our ability to achieve the target of lower emissions from the ferry sector depends on the county authorities taking part in the job. Enova becomes an important tool in a phase where new technologies are to be developed. The size may, of course, require county councils to impose requirements on tenders, but at the same time we must be prepared to consider whether the organisational and financial solutions are good enough to achieve the objective of a transition to low- or zero-emission ferries. The main emphasis of ferry services was transferred through the administrative reform in 2010 to the county municipalities. This follows classification of roads. I'm not sure if that was a good idea. The professional environment and fer competence are now spread across several municipal and state actors. I think we have to go the other way and strengthen the contracting authority role, so that the state road authorities and county municipalities become a stronger contracting party in a market with relatively few operators. It will be positive to better control cost developments, and it will be easier to implement low and zero emission strategies. To repeat myself, it is very gratifying that there is broad agreement on the requirement for low or zero emissions in new ferry offers. It will mean development and new technology, important activity at Norwegian shipyards in the years to come, and not least a very long-term upgrade of a very old ferry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1298	I start by saying that I'm very happy that the Storting, collectively, believes that we can now take the step out and use zero and low-carbon technology, and that one doesn't have to wait for the technology anymore, because there was perhaps a little bit of the problem with the signals in the Sunvolden statement. But now the Stortinget is very keen that we should put in place both low and zero emission technologies within ferries, scheduled boats, short sea shipping etc. It's brilliant, great! But then it's also that in the Workers' Party we're a little impatient, because we're in a very special situation. Time suggests that the Storting had given attention to the situation on the coast with perhaps slightly different eyes than the majority actually chooses to do. Can we take advantage of that? Do we have a room for action? We have not established that there is one answer, but it might have been good to challenge ourselves a little bit more if there is something we can now do to speed up the rounding of the tenders and get more tenders in the process, which results in activity in a valuable food chain for Norway, with valuable competence. The industry itself says that if there are empty order books, or low economic activity, for a two to three years now, much of the valuable competence will be gone. Then I had hoped for a little more impatience also in an overall political environment. I am not saying that it is rejected, or that it is not present, by not voting in favour of the proposals, but it remains to be seen whether they are able to implement it, and that there is enough implementation on it. Because that is what the situation – in my opinion – requires of us. When we have used the word that we want ‘to speed up’ tenders, it is considered that it is a little too eager. The situation does not warrant that. On the contrary – the situation suggests that we should be eager, and we should look for the opportunities. So we're impatient. We hope that the debate will also look at the possibilities of doing something more concrete from the point of view of the situation now, and that it will be the result of the debate. So to the vote, just to clarify it for our part: we are voting primarily for our proposals according to the recommendations I, II and III, but we are going to vote subsidiaryly for the recommendations I, II and III. The other proposals in the recommendation we are going to vote in favour of, with the exception of VIII, where we are asking for alternative voting against proposal No. 2 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, where we have the grant scheme. It should mean that we're a very cohesive mess when everything comes to it and we've voted. Finally, I would just like to inform you that the Workers' Party is prepared and prepared to pass on the NOx scheme as a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1316	The representative of Aasland then made it clear what the Workers' Party should vote on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1319	I wasn't really going to take the floor, but the last post from Terje Aasland, where he says that the majority is very passive, while Terje Aasland and the Workers' Party are very active, I don't feel that I can stand up undisputed. The Workers' Party and the Centre are promoting a proposal that says: ‘The Government is asking the Government to raise a case on how the State can contribute to the protection of zero-emission technologies in future ferry offers and to the timely speeding up of these tenders.’ It is the zeal of the Workers' Party. The rest of the parties – except for the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, but the Centre Party has not come up with this type of criticism – are thus grouped together on the following: ‘The Government is asked to take the initiative to publish new ferry offers as early as possible, without concluding previously concluded contracts, in order to ensure a good time for the new construction and repair of ferries and scheduled boats.’ I am unable, with my best will, to understand how it is possible to promote a separate case that will speed up the tender in time – where you must first get a case back to Stortinget – to be something faster than asking the government to publish new tenders «as early as possible». Understand the one who can, but I felt that it could not stand undisputed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1334	The representative Eidsvoll Holmås then made his knowledge clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1337	Since I am now going to do something that I do very rarely, namely to say that I fully agree with the representative Eidsvoll Holmås, I also take the place that he tends to take – down here. It is quite clear that the Workers' Party's zeal has its limitations, and that limitation is that if we are to speed up tenders in the manner proposed by the Workers' Party, we must terminate contracts. It has a significant cost, and it is a cost that I do not perceive that the Workers' Party is in practice willing to take. Nor can I see that it is appropriate, all the time there is a number of tenders that run out of time. And it is, as the setting shows, that the tenders need to be announced as early as possible, so that the yards and suppliers have time to change and actually offer what Stortinget believes to be offered. So it is gratifying that there is a broad consensus in this room about the direction where we are going – and I think it is positive that we have such great ambitions that we are going to develop zero- and low-emission technological solutions, which cannot only affect Norway, which can not only affect emissions at home but which can also affect beyond its borders. I think it must characterise good climate action in Norway that we are doing things that can also delight the rest of the world and that can also create new green jobs and revenues for the community, which are to fund the well-being that we all appreciate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1346	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1349	Then I can also use this pulpit, and at least we've used the same pulpit. I think basically we're not so very disagreeable. The working party has never said that we should terminate any contracts, we have only asked that a searcher with a light and a lamp, if possible, get started faster than it gets signals from the maritime industry when it comes to the process. I think everyone who has been in contact with the industry has received some concerns about this. We are – simply – a little more impatient, a little more eager, and a little more committed than what the majority is. But we accept that, there is a broad consensus on the choice of solution, on the commitment and that something absolutely should happen, and that as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1356	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1370	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1381	During the film festival in Tromsø in 2012, producer Yngve Säther launched the ambition that a combined film industry must aim for a Norwegian film to win the Gold Palm in Cannes in ten years. I want to start my post by saying that this is what we want to be on. Norway has good prerequisites for winning prizes at international A-film festivals, and Norwegian film and television drama industries have the potential to take the lead. We have recently seen these brilliant examples of, most recently with Emmy's prize to Anneke von der Lippe. I think this is about a common bet. The film actors work every day to create the best possible product, and the state has to set up with funds. ‘Veivieren’ represented a shift in the pace of film policy in Norway. The communication contained major ambitions and clear objectives for Norwegian film policy. The combination of a skilled and ambitious industry, clear targets and growth in public aid schemes for film contributed to the growth and progress of Norwegian film. In recent years, Norwegian film has gained increasing international interest and recognition, and it is important that this growth and development can continue. There are in particular three things I hear a common industry is concerned about: funding, rights and long-term. Therefore, there were high expectations for the announcement that today's government presented just before the summer. In the communication, the government presents a number of proposals that we agree with, to which we can easily join, and which I believe represent a new step in the offensive film effort that we have in Norway. However, a number of measures, or things to be assessed, were also launched that met considerable resistance. In the Communication, the Government presented its film policy objectives, its proposals for changes to the grant system and the grant management, measures to contribute to increased accessibility, as well as an incentive scheme to make Norway more attractive as a recording country. What was our concern about the notification was that it was so small about how governments can more actively combat the illegal use of copyright, how to guarantee rightholders a fair remuneration, and how to stimulate support schemes to improve industry predictability and profitability for the various actors. The Labour Party also wants a stronger focus on film art and greater diversity in Norwegian film. In our view, therefore, there is a need to step up efforts to improve gender balance in Norwegian film productions. In the case of concrete proposals, I would like to refer to other articles from the Labour Party on this matter and later articles from the undersigned. I just want to refer to a proposal that a minority is behind, linked to better gender balance in Norwegian film productions. The capable women are here, but there are some mechanisms that prevent them from now on. Public support for films must therefore have a special responsibility to help achieve a good gender balance in film productions. We think it will provide better movies and help to make more important stories when the big canvas is happy for everyone who is happy in good movies. In our view, better counting systems should be developed, because it is difficult today to get a common understanding of how gender balance actually is. And so we think it should still be a goal that the proportion of women or men in key positions should be at least 40 pst., and that the long-term goal should be to strive for 50-50 women and men, and I am promoting with this minority – the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party – proposals. Then the Workers' Party and the parties represented in the Committee have agreed on a number of proposals relating to important things that were proposed in the Communication, which we are involved in strengthening or improving. There are some proposals that reverse some of the proposals that were to be considered, with regard to what was said in the communication, and we have had a good dialogue that has resulted in what we call a film deal, which I will spend the rest of my speaking time as the case rapporteur to explain the content of. Firstly, we have a comprehensive settlement relating to the co-financing of Norwegian content. The Council of State has invited a Round Table which has had a lot of work to do and which delivered its final report last week. Some measures are outlined in this report, but at least on behalf of the Workers' Party I would like to express a great disappointment that the industry itself does not take greater responsibility for ensuring co-financing of new Norwegian content. This is why we believe it is important that the work that the Council of State has put in place, strengthened and intensified. We are also pleased that the Committee is in agreement when we express a clear expectation that the various stages of the value chain that make money to disseminate film and audiovisual content also contribute to the financing of new audiovisual content. At the same time, we are aware that a revision of the EU's AMT Directive has been announced, and we ask the government as soon as the new rules are clear, assess how co-financing responsibility can best be implemented, and come back to Stortinget with it appropriately. Furthermore, we underline the need to facilitate increased cinematographic dissemination, to facilitate the more ideal cinematographic dissemination, where the aim is to disseminate and make available films of cultural and artistic value that do not necessarily find profit in the market. Like the government, we believe that film dissemination should be an important part of Norwegian film policy and that clear objectives and instruments should be developed. We point out that the government proposes that the NFI should be given an overall national responsibility for the implementation of State policy in the field of film dissemination, that the NFI should take over the management of the fiscal resources that have been allocated through Norwegian cinema and film funds so far, and that the NFI should be responsible for the levying of the levy. The Committee agrees. At the same time, the Committee would stress that the means of levying revenue from the State budget will continue to be available in the future for the purposes that have so far been the purpose of the fiscal means, but we are also aware that the Ministry of Culture and Film & Cinema are working to find a solution for the preservation of the urban cinema, and we are asking the government to report it back to the Stortinget. Then we point out that the cinemas think it would be anticompetitive if they paid a fee that could go to support the dissemination of audiovisual content reserved for platforms other than cinema. We express the Committee's support for the government's proposal to make the support schemes platform neutral, but we ask the government to postpone its implementation until it is clear how the various stages in the value chain that make money to disseminate Norwegian film and audiovisual content will also contribute to the financing of new audiovisual content. The Committee points out that cinema remains the main platform for film viewing and dissemination and that it is important that funding should therefore continue to be used for various actions in the film and cinema sectors, as mentioned earlier. Furthermore, the conciliation ensures that the local audience activity at the Film House will continue to be maintained through the Cinemateket in Oslo, and if at a later stage a transfer of activities becomes relevant, the Committee asks the Government to return to the Stortinget on a case-by-case basis. We underline the need to strengthen the government's efforts for strong film regions. We join the process of consolidation that the government has set up, but we underline that the Oslo region must also find its natural place in this landscape. At the same time, we ask that the effects of the consolidation of the regional film funds be evaluated after three years. The Committee favours the government for establishing an incentive scheme and proposes funds for it already in the 2016 State budget. I am pleased that the Committee agrees that the system should be further developed and that we ask the government to assess whether there may be a need to adjust the framework already in the revised national budget, in order to ensure greater predictability for the industry. At the same time, I am pleased that the majority asks the government to assess measures and changes to the grant funds that stimulate fewer Norwegian productions to be out of the country, so that more players in the Norwegian film industry can get more jobs and more earnings, and that the government will return to the Stortinget with its own case. Furthermore, I am pleased that the Committee agrees on continued national film Commission work, continued efforts at the International Sami Film Institute, proposals for increased availability, grants for children's and family films and offensive policies to combat illegal use. With this, I thank the Committee for a very good and fruitful cooperation on behalf of Norwegian film.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1425	The representative of Arild Grande then addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1428	In this matter, it is important to say both to the parties in the Committee and not least to those outside the Committee: thank you for constructive and good cooperation. Thanks also to the case rapporteur – for the good work and coordination of all the parties between them, which has led to a broad film settlement in the processing of this communication. It is not often that the Culture Committee is involved in wholesale disputes, but when it does, there are of course good reasons for it. I think that's two-three important reasons. Firstly, the government issued a big message about future film policy, which received a positive reception both from the industry and from the political community. The direction and main points of the notification provided a good basis and were therefore also maintained and partly reinforced in the Committee's proceedings. Secondly, the development of film policy for the future is a very demanding task at a time when things are changing, when new working methods, not least channels of dissemination, are being used and new challenges and opportunities are emerging. Then it is important that everyone is discussed and worked for each of their important areas in a larger group, where old and new, details and overall – everything – are weighed up against each other and a thing to agree on the most important thing. It's good for the film industry, which explains the politicians' willingness to engage and to provide leadership based on both history and future scenarios. Last but not least, the desire for predictability in film policy has been a contributing factor in us agreeing on a settlement that can be achieved through changing political popularity and election wins. These are the points that there is common commitment and consensus around. This predictability will provide filmmakers, actors, distributors and others who contribute to the production and dissemination of Norwegian films. Some have believed that the Right Party as a government party through the conciliation goes against their own government. We don't. However, we have agreed to conclude on some of the points that the government thought should be assessed. In the process towards conclusion, of course, we have also considered a lot, and many alternatives have been discussed both in their own rows and among the conciliators. The cinematography in Oslo is probably the most visible example of such a case. The desire to assess the responsibilities and location of Cinematography is probably also the individual issue that has created the most involvement in the recordings of the notification. When we have moved on with the Cinemate in Oslo as part of the responsibility of the NFI – and therefore a national responsibility – now, it is primarily because we did not see any alternative solutions that could at the same time provide us with the necessary access to be a national actor on behalf of Norway in an international film environment. Both our own history and the history of other film countries are important in a whole. Access to this is ensured through this reconciliation. It was important for us to take care of this whole thing, and this is of course the government too. The case rapporteur has been through the points of the conciliation, but I still want to mention some of them here. Both the changes in the cinema landscape and not least the transformation of Film & Kino made it unnatural that Norwegian cinema and film funds should be collected and managed by Film & Kino in the future. It is clear that the state levy is now levied by the state and further handled by the state through the Norwegian Film Institute. We are aware that some clarifications and border crossings remain on the performance side of the tasks for which the NFI is now to be responsible. Many of us are particularly concerned with a good and sustainable system for the urban cinemas. The Ministry is in dialogue on this, and I am sure that the NFI will deal with this in a constructive and good way. There are still border crossings that need to be clarified even when charging funds are passed on. Right is pleased that the government is flagging the only natural in 2015, platform neutral regimes, but at the same time has joined a waiting attitude through the conciliation. We will facilitate a new everyday life, but have respect for the dialogue that is taking place, and await the actors' response to how they will have a comprehensive system of co-financing. In dealing with such a settlement, we could easily be concerned with technical and practical elements, not least where localisation is involved. In this agreement, we've been clear that others have to take care of it. But one localization struggle we have followed up. The general theme of the Storing Communication is to facilitate stronger regional film environments. Actively spreading power and strengthening the regions is a conscious and good choice, and I am pleased that the film industry has accepted both the message and the challenge well. The consolidation of the film funds is in good hands, although some final decisions still need to be taken through negotiations and with some roughness. An important contribution to strengthening the regions is also the great new feature of this film release. After many years without anything happening, there is now an incentive arrangement. The scheme makes Norway competitive as a recording country, and it did not take long before we received our first feedback: the recording of the ‘Snowman’ is to be done in Norway. It is not often a get so fast and cash feedback on the policy, but it just makes it extra nice. In the treatment of a staggering message, there are, of course, also some items that you do not agree on. That's the same thing here, that's the same thing.We may agree on the objective, but when the Workers' Party uses this opportunity to promote concrete demands for gender quotas, we need to report passports. The intention that both sexes should have a natural place in the film industry is probably the same, but the device triggers a lot of questions. How should it be measured? How should it be followed up – and by whom? What is the consequence of breaking the goal? For us in the Right, it is more natural to work for this balance through other measures, for example. aimed at recruitment and education, and therefore this is not part of the reconciliation. Finally, I would also like to thank the film industry for their commitment and active feedback to us who were going to deal with the film message. Thank you for recording, for good meetings and for conversations. Yes then, I have registered that in this case we have also been declared as un knowledgeable and completely useless, but the individual meetings and not least the reactions after the press conference last Thursday make me feel that we have had a good and useful dialogue with the industry, and that the message facilitates an active Norwegian film production and strong film environments around the regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1456	We're in a movie month, where everyone has their favorite movies, and they're often not newly produced, but we feel that they're just as good every time we see them – year after year. Norwegian film policy has undergone a number of changes since the 2000s, where the film of Løkkeberg and Aune Sand’s film ‘Dis’ created major discussions about what was quality film and what we are going to spend our tax money on. And now film policy has sailed as one of the major areas of cultural policy, even in business policy. It covers large areas of industry and covers large areas of culture. The concern for quality in Norwegian films is relevant, but I think it is difficult to isolate quality from other film policy issues. The truth is that the film industry has had major challenges over the years despite the efforts that the red-greens thought they did. When they launched their film release in 2007, one of the important objectives of film policy was that it should benefit everyone, and it should be sustainable. Eight years later, a comprehensive research report showed that this was not fully met. Film industry suffered from inadequate funding and fragmented organisation. The objective of consolidation and strengthening the industry was also not fully achieved. When the film release came from this government, the Workers' Party launched its new ambition in the film industry, and they declared, for example, that they were not in the film industry. Norwegian films are supposed to reflect the composition of the entire population, which I think sounds very good. What's tied up with each other, I don't know if that's exactly those words, but for us at least aren't political leaders to achieve the artistic content and the goal of going. When you discuss gender balance in the film industry – 50/50, or some of those percentages – I can't imagine that Kon-Tiki could have been produced with such a percentage distribution. The most important thing for us is quality, not least the artistic, and the quality of those who work in the Norwegian film industry. The best thing we can do for Norwegian films is to ensure that the industry is economically sustainable as far as possible and that state support comes without artistic ties. Therefore, the Progress Party considers it important to strengthen and specialise the regional film funds, including in order to simplify the aid scheme. This is important for the film industry. This is also part of the agreement, which I am pleased that we have got. The introduction of a longer-term incentive scheme to attract international film production to Norway is important for the film, but it is also important for District Norway. The film consul will be at the heart of the future. I don't think there's going to be any kiosks or big discussions around it, but for the film industry -- to engage people in the industry, to get movies from the outside -- I think this is also important, not least for recruiting and having high quality on those who work in movies. The barley quinoa has been mentioned by the last two speakers. It's a collection point in the whole of Building Norway. Yeah, I guess no one in this room has any good memories of their own urban cinema, whether it was a thrill movie, a love movie or a children's movie. In conclusion, I see that the film industry is a growing industry, both in industry and culture, and I think we should look at it in the future: where should we define this important industry? For this is an industry in sound, light, crafts – they build scenes – overnight, food, tourism, transport. Yes, there is no doubt that this is as much in the field of culture as it is in the field of culture. And then finally, we've discussed Cinemathete, which we think is historically important – or at least important to show historical films – and that it should have a central place in that work. Some of us aired the idea that this might be under the National Library, but now we have found the final solution for just being able to promote historical films and show historical films. I am pleased that in the agreement we could address the important matter and that we found a broad consensus. Then, like everyone else, I too would like to thank you for the broad agreement. I think it will strengthen the industry in the future that you have a continuity in Stortinget. It shows that there is broad consensus in this area, both within film culture and industry, and that one can look ahead and have a predictable policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1482	First of all, I would also like to express my satisfaction that a joint committee has reached a settlement on this communication. In particular, there is reason to pay tribute to the rapporteur for the way he has dropped the committee through the film release and taken the initiative of a wide-ranging conciliation. It says respect. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are well pleased with the result. We believe that the consensus shown here by the Committee will be of great importance for the future of the film in Norway. Norwegian children's films are an important key to recruiting new generations to get good experiences in cinema, even in the future. That Norwegian children's films in cinema are popular, there's no doubt about it. Four of the ten most visited films in 2014 were Norwegian children's and family films. On average, children’s films have three times as high visits as other films, increasing the total number of visits to Norwegian cinemas. At the same time, there is great variation in numbers and offers. The Committee points out that 25 pst are earmarked for Denmark. of film funding for children’s and family films, and we ask the government to consider schemes that can stimulate the increase in the number of Norwegian-produced children’s and family films. The death of the cinema has been predicted by about every new technological advance, ever since the TV was all-round. Despite this, we have seen an amazingly stable cinema search since the millennium. These are the new forms of viewing that can bet on each other – video, DVD, regular TV watching and streaming. There is reason to stress that it is the cinema view that represents the predominant public revenue for the films. Good mechanisms have still not been developed to provide the rightholders with satisfactory revenues from the flow services. The cinema also plays a major role as a social gathering point and as a multi-purpose venue in many municipalities. Municipalities regard cinemas as part of the cultural base wall and choose to support them with significant amounts, even in times of urgency. There are regular cinemas in 183 municipalities, and the urban cinema has views in a further 127 municipalities. All in all, we're talking about 86 pst. by the population. Overall, there is every reason to focus politically on ensuring that the framework conditions for Norwegian cinemas do not deteriorate. Although several of the largest cities have sold their cinemas in whole or in part, this must not cover the fact that in most municipalities they own the cinema themselves, and it is an important part of local cultural policy. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that we have now set up an intensive system. Several major film productions have been interested in adding all or part of the recording to Norway in recent years, productions that would undoubtedly have been of great importance to Norwegian travel if they had been put here. Now there are opportunities to do so, and we are pleased that such an intensive system has already been put in place in the budget. As far as cinematics are concerned, we are pleased that the Committee is opposed to the communication on the issue of having Cinematics in Oslo, like the other cinematics, organized as a separate entity. The necessary link between cinematographic archives and national cinematographic publications is a strong argument that the operation of cinematography in Oslo should continue to be a state responsibility. We are pleased that the committee agrees not to separate Cinematée in Oslo from the Norwegian Film Institute now. Finally, I would also like to point out to the International Sami Film Institute and highlight the importance and importance of the government following up this film institute, so that in the future they will also be able to make good feature films, good television series, for the future. We also point to the initiative taken by the Nordic Council, and hope that the government will follow this film institute in its dialogue with the other Nordic countries, because it will be very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1501	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee and the rapporteur for their excellent work in dealing with the film report and for inviting us to the Central Party, which is not represented in the Committee, into the work. We are pleased that the Committee has listened to and has responded in several areas both from us and from the hearing bodies. The film area is diverse and film policy must therefore take care of everything from short films and documentaries to series and feature films. Film combines several art forms such as music, literature and pictures. Creativity and creativity are important to become a good filmmaker. Film as an art expression and business area is enough argument to raise the practical and aesthetic subjects in the school. It's a ripple development in the film industry. New technologies and new platforms offer great opportunities, but also major challenges. Today we don't watch movies just on movies and on TV at a fixed time, but on all kinds of mobile devices when we wish. As the notification shows, the legislation and support schemes are related to the needs of industry and the public. There has been considerable development in the Norwegian film industry. We have award-winning films and actors and a recognized film school at Lillehammer. We also have a very good production environment for both films and series elsewhere in the country. In the Central Party, we just think this is important: that we have more environments outside the capital. We think it helps challenge and thus also improve the quality. The centre party believes that it has been important and absolutely necessary to review the whole production chain and simplify the support schemes. We believe cross-political agreement on several points is good – for as much predictability as possible for the industry. The centre party considers it appropriate to have a platform-neutral approach in the future, both for production and display. This does not prevent the continuation of artistic and market assessments of the grants. We also believe that there is a strong consensus in the Committee that the different stages of the value chain that make money to disseminate film and audiovisual content should contribute to the financing of new film production. Examples of how this has been done in other countries have been shown in both reporting and setting. In the opinion of the Centre Party, it is important that the industry assumes responsibility for contributing to the development of a system that they can agree on. Participation in the design of the scheme itself will be the best option. If platform neutrality is to be a bearer, all must contribute to the financing of the development of new content. In this respect, I would like to refer to the agreement that meets the interests of the cinemas in the use of the tax funds that are currently being paid into Norwegian cinema and film funds. It is obvious that anyone who makes money on communication must be contributors to the purpose of Norwegian cinema and film funds. At the same time, the conciliators stress that the objectives pursued today must be maintained. The centre party also believes it is important that the cinematography in Oslo remains at the Film House. However, we will point out that the future of the other regional cinematic characters remains unanswered. We believe that this is unfortunate and have in our alternative budget set aside money to transfer responsibility to the National Library. We were in the idea of proposing this today, but rather than risking a vote in favour of the proposal, we would rather continue to work on a solution for the cinematographers. The work on this matter has given clear signals that today's solution is not working. The centre party also welcomes the introduction of the incentive scheme and hopes that it will make Norway an attractive producer country for foreign film companies. Many other countries have such arrangements, and it now makes narrow, but beyond if we hadn't had them. In our opinion, the incentive scheme is closely linked to the work of the Norwegian Film Commission. We are pleased that the government's proposal to wind up the national film commission system has been scrapped. It is very important, in our opinion, that the international environment has a way into the Norwegian environment and an organisation that has a strong knowledge of the regional film environment and the variations and opportunities that our entire country offers. The center party believes it is natural to add this function to Bergen, along with the management of the incentive scheme. We also notice that the film environments are about to consolidate. We are waiting for the results and the added value of such consolidation, but have understood that it is desired by the industry. However, we have received signals that the processes are challenging in some places. We ask the Council of State to follow up on this further and come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1527	First of all, I would like to start by thanking the President and the Chairman of the Committee for the inclusion of the Left, which is not represented in the Committee, and to a certain extent has had its mark on the conciliation and voting process. Of course, when you're not in the committee, you can't make that much effort, but we're happy that it's an agreement on an important message and an important industry – and an important cultural expression, which has many elements in it. The film message has a lot of creative in it. It's a creative industry, and it's a distributed industry in the form that there are film environments around the country. It facilitates a great diversity. ‘Quality’ is an important keyword for the message. For my own part, I come from Uppland. We live in an important institution in the Norwegian film school. And then I'm on the Health and Care Committee, and a little walk into the one that shows the breadth of what movies are -- because documentary films are also part of this, but also educational films. Animations and games are on their way into the industry. In the U.S., several games have been approved as a medicine for the prescription of blue blood cells. In the Health and Welfare Committee, we have, among other things: also allocated funds for research dissemination, doctoral publication, where films have been used in this context. Children who depend on drug addicts have focused on using films to create a language that children understand. It shows the possibilities that lie in the film as a communication medium. For Linnea, among others: one of the films produced. For the left, we have paid particular attention to consolidating production. The incentive scheme has also been important. We've scaled up to the Icelandic model, and getting a half-yearly adjustment is important. At the same time, we would also point out that the current system, where some environments may have been accused of having to travel abroad in order to obtain cheap locations, has elements of competence in itself and can be compared a little with the Defence Repurchase Schemes. There are binding agreements that when Norwegian producer communities leave, they will also come from Hungary, Ireland and other countries to Norway with their competence. So we're not going to replace one arrangement with another, but the incentive arrangement has to be in addition to the arrangements we have. An example is Lillehammer, where one now rebuilds the cinemas, and where it is possible to use one of the cinemas in the daytime to sound. They're looking for Sweden and the sound environments there. So that development of competences is also important, and internationalisation/globalisation is also important. Here we are going to give and take in Norway. So to the Film Commission, which the Left is also busy with. It's important that it goes on. It must be left outside the Film Institute as a self-financing foundation. It does a very important job of marketing Norwegian sites – including developing sites. We see longer and longer production lines, and in particular the TV media is important here to create serial activities. ‘Lilyhammer’ was one of the examples. There is also a growing need for professionalism in the marketing of the facilities we have, but also in the films, when this is going to last for a long time. Then we're in the middle of the discussion about connection to nutrition. I understand that there is currently a ‘missing link’ here between travel life, the museum sector and the film sector. We need to build it – and look at it as a continuous industrial chain. Children's films have been mentioned. It's also been very important for the Left. They recruit a large audience, but we also see the popularity. They're recruiting a lot of cinemagoers, and so they're especially important. We have also mentioned that the Danish model, with support schemes, is something we should look at. But we're in a development here, so we're looking forward to discussing more of this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1548	Let me first take advantage of the opportunity to thank the Committee and, not least, the rapporteur for good work and for the initiative taken by various parties in the Committee, for a broad agreement on the policy, which has also led to it. We appreciated that in the Swedish Parliament, and important progress has been made. Maybe one of the movies could say that in many ways it was the 21st century's really big cultural expression. There was nothing going on to become a totally dominant expression in popular culture, along with pop and rock, and it turned out to have a great impact on its different platforms: cinema and all the other ways we're watching movies. Therefore, it is also of great importance to have a good policy in this area, and I would say that it might be even easier when it comes to film than in many other fields to see how decisive a good public cultural policy is for the final result. The production of films is expensive and complex. If we want it to be done in Norwegian to a significant extent, there is no other way but to finance the infrastructure, the education, the human beings and the production – in whole or in part – that is needed to produce it. I can also show the other dimension it might have: when we have now had an ambitious film policy and spent considerable resources on it, we are also involved in generating a generation of skilled photographers and other professionals who work with the different aspects of a film production, not least directors and actors, who then get a bigger market, reach out and make big money – whether it is those who become big international film people, like Joachim Trier, etc., or it is our own, such as Anne Sewitsky, Erik Poppe and other directors, and many of the less well-known people who drive movies. Thus, good public policy is also involved in establishing a market and giving many a chance in a market in that way. We in SV thought it was important that considerable progress had been made in the conciliation. We are now faced with an even better functioning backstop system, which is strong. It'll be positive for Norwegian movies. We also thought it important that we preserve and develop strong regional environments in order to produce films in the future. And we're left with that. For us in SV, it may now be especially important to find a better solution than the one that the message provided when it comes to Cinematography, and to preserve cinematography as a state institution to take care of our film heritage, and we are pleased with the solution that exists, and not least that any major changes to it should be submitted to the Storting. I would say that in other areas too, there are clear improvements: there is an improvement in the solutions for film and cinema. And I look forward to greater activity now when it comes to finding a solution to a major challenge, about and how to co-finance Norwegian content, for example. through a power charge or something else. We're a long way from the goal, but I now understand that there's a broad consensus about making progress on it and seeing if we can find effective solutions. There are things that remain, and that I have less faith in. We, from SV's side, are also involved in that solution for a framework-driven incentive scheme, but I have to add that I believe she has significant weaknesses. I like to hear someone in the film industry who believes very strongly that this is the solution that is needed. We now have, as I understand it, clear goals for film policy, but I agree with the minority in the committee, who believe that we should have more concrete objectives and that it would make our ambitions clearer in important areas. The SV will support the proposal of the minority in the committee on that. Nevertheless, I will finally say that for an area such as film, where one stands in long-term processes, from one start to the other with the final result, and where it is expensive and complex and involves large organizations to produce, it is important to have a good policy, and therefore I thought it was valuable that they were taking an initiative for a good film policy, and I am looking forward to him being seen alive by the government, where progress has now been made in many fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1574	The film and television industry is like the rest of society in the middle of a digital revolution. Digitalisation has created new challenges, but even more important: it has opened up a world of new opportunities. In Norway we see that more films and television dramas are produced than ever. The Government is committed to ensuring continued production and access to Norwegian quality content. Sustainable business models are important in this respect, allowing the various parties with financial interests in the production, distribution and sale of films to see the benefits of good cooperation solutions. There will always be a high risk of investing in film and television production. There must therefore be good opportunities to make money when you first succeed, for both broad, commercial and narrower films. The film Communication provides for a forward-looking film policy – a policy that will contribute to providing the audience with the good film experiences, where they want to see them, and a film policy that provides the industry with good and predictable framework conditions, while being flexible enough to meet today’s and tomorrow’s challenges. I am very pleased that the committee through the film conciliation supports the government's film announcement on almost all points: new film policy objectives, which are overall and less detailed, a simpler and more dynamic system of subsidies, which can be quickly adapted to new challenges We ensure that an incentive system for film is finally established. We strengthen the regional film environments, including: with a new grant scheme for consolidated regional film funds. We are establishing a long-term comprehensive national policy on film dissemination. It is important that policies are in line with developments. It serves the entire film industry, and there is a broad consensus on the film policy objectives of the Stortinget, which we think is very good for the development of the film industry in the years to come. I note that the Committee does not support the proposal to consider moving Cinemateket in Oslo out of the state. I take note of that. We need a solid and sustainable film industry capable of exploiting the opportunities of digital development. The aim must be to enable Norwegian films to exploit their full potential and also reach new audiences. Here the government has already taken the initiative to cooperate with the industry on new financing models and business models. We're on it. The industry responded positively and constructively to this call and continued to work after the round table conference in February. Last week, industry actors presented their follow-up report to the government. We will continue to cooperate with the actors here, but it is up to the actors themselves to work out the new business opportunities. The introduction of a comprehensive national film dissemination policy has been called for by the industry. It is a State responsibility to contribute to the predictable and stable financing of important tasks for the dissemination of film culture. The tax resources in Norwegian cinema and film funds are now being moved to the state budget, and I am pleased that the committee supports this. This means that, from now on, the means of charging can go to film dissemination activities in their entirety. I note that the Committee basically supports the government's proposal to make aid schemes more platform neutral, but that they also see that we need to assess this as development and cooperation with the industry develop. Movies must be available where the audience will see it. It is essential that the film dissemination grants are used for the dissemination of artistic and culturally valuable films, that they contribute to the diversity and breadth of the film offer in Norway, and not least that it ensures a high quality and breadth film offer to the public. I also welcome the broad support for the establishment of an incentive scheme for films. We want a scheme in place from 2016. Stronger regional film environments are important for both diversity and the spread of power. The consolidation of the regional film funds is necessary to create regional power centres and to contribute to the creation of viable environments for film workers in the regions. We also facilitate a stronger commitment to Sami film in the film release, and the government fully supports the initiative of the International Sami Film Institute that the other Nordic countries with a Sami population should participate in the funding of ISFI. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Stortinget for the broad support given to the film release and for the good agreement that has been developed in Stortinget, and I look forward to a further debate on film policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1630	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1633	I noticed that the Council of State in its statement used the opportunity to promote a claim that with this agreement, Stortinget ends up – to say the least – all the points in the government's film message. It's clear that it's the right of the Council of States to choose to look at it that way. I think the picture is a little bit more nuanced, but I think all the parties are sitting with the feeling that here you've been stretching in the desire to find a deal that everyone can agree on. It implies that much of what is proposed here, not necessarily the parties' primary position, but that it's part of a settlement that we want to work to realize. One of the questions there is this with co-financing, and I notice that the Council here says that it is still up to the industry itself to find solutions to it. At the same time, Stortinget's settlement is very clear that one expects a solution in place as quickly as possible. How quickly does the Council of State see that there is a proposal for the Storting on how to outline possible solutions that not only leave it to the industry itself, but where should the Council of State also take responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1640	First of all, I am very pleased with the film deal that is established in Stortinget, and for the good work that, among other things. the rapporteur-in-chief has done so. The reason for that is that I think it's very good for the film industry that they have a deal like there's a broad consensus about, wide-ranging support in the Storting, which can contribute to the film industry in the years that come up with a boost. I think that's very important. So to the concrete question of this with co-financing. As you know, we have had a round table conference, and there are at least two possibilities. One is to encourage industry to develop good financing models and new business models in which they themselves see a high potential and interest in contributing and participating. There are actually some people in the industry who have said that they want. Another option may be what I know the Workers' Party has previously stated, and that is to introduce a fee. Now it is not very close to this government's heart to impose such a kind of fee, and therefore I think it is important that we now try to take that work further. I discovered in that meeting that the industry is still interested in looking at different business models.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1647	First of all, thank you for the good words from the Council of State, and I will repeat the praise by saying that it is very nice to have negotiations on a settlement when the government parties are prepared to find good solutions, and I feel that it has been done in common, so that the praise can, as I have said, be reproduced. I take note of the answer given by the Council of State, which I would like to characterise more as a half-way response, because one still shows that the industry itself is prepared to find solutions. We have not seen very many traces of this in the report that was delivered, that it is the industry that will be responsible for this. I think it is very important that the agreement now expresses a clear expectation to the industry that we should be involved and contribute to financing new Norwegian audiovisual content. The question is whether the industry is able to take this responsibility on its own or whether the Storting must intervene more resolutely. That is why it is quite important how the Council of State positions itself in relation to this situation, and therefore I would challenge: will the Council of State ensure that a matter is promoted for the Storting on possible co-financing?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1654	First of all, I think it's very important and useful for me to get this support in the Storting, that we should push the industry to be able to do this. The alternative, if the industry does not develop these new business models, is that we have to assess a fee. I say straight out that there is nothing that I am very excited about, but I have also challenged the industry in this field. I see here that there is a huge potential, a lot of opportunities, and one of the things that they also presented to me is that this is a huge potential for the industry itself, and then I can't imagine that they're not willing to look at different business models in the future. Now it is also true that at this meeting there were actually some of those who were present – they have partly different interests in this – who wanted further cooperation, and we have agreed to meet in the new year to participate in discussing new business models, and I will of course come back to the Stortinget with suggestions on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1659	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I agree that the best thing is that the industry itself is finding good solutions. We're going to join in. But we must also have it shaken behind the mirror that if you do not have the ability to take that responsibility on your own, the Storting must look at the matter again, and in this way I am glad that the Council of State is so clear that it is something that needs to be considered in the ultimate sense. Then we have made a proposal in this case on quotas and measures to improve the gender balance in Norwegian films. The Council of State did not comment on that in its statement, but I would like to invite the Council of State to give its assessment, since the Council of State in reply letters to the undersigned has confirmed that it is precisely the films that have pre-fabricated by the NFI, where demands are made, which have a improvement and a relatively good gender balance, while the films that do not have that kind of requirements are on site resting or, in some cases, going back in relation to gender balance. Why is the Council of State so allergic to continuing an offensive effort to improve gender balance?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1666	We have had this debate many times. What I registered when the Workers' Party had reached this goal of 40 p.m. in the main message The Wizard, when it was developed and not least dealt with in the Stortinget, saw that this target was not achieved in 2010, and then it went back and expanded and said that over time it would be possible to achieve it. But I have recorded that the Labour Party has never come up with any tools. What do you intend to do? So if you're not going to get to the goal, you're going to have to do it? I believe – and I communicate it every day when I am in conversation with the industry – that it is very important to use all the forces, and in many areas I feel that there is a growing will and interest among women to engage. We have capable female directors, we have capable female actors, and we have capable female producers, and my appeal is that the industry must, of course, also take this responsibility itself. I have a great ambition that in the years to come, women should also be involved in shaping the film industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1671	I was made aware that when I mentioned the incentive scheme, I was injured to use the word «intensive». But it should be Becquerading, he was completely consistent in the mistalion! But the very incentive scheme is the background to my question. We are pleased that we have put this in place, but the concern is whether enough money has been put in, whether it will go further. Given that this government has shown little understanding of going from framework management to regulatory arrangements, this is a system that is well comparable to the VAT compensation on sports buildings and where the government in ageing comes back with a grant that is in line with the applications. Is this a comparable system and will the Council of State take an initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1678	First of all, I think there has been a relatively broad consensus in this house on what requires a regulatory arrangement. It's on the individual level. I think you should look for a long time to find some good examples of other arrangements that are governed, and I think that's a little bit of the basis for being restrictive with a system like this, as a whole, towards groupings, which is going to go into and become a rule-driven system. That's also the basis for not recommending it. But what I think is positive, which I also hope the representative will remember, is that this government has shown in practical policy that we actually get it done. I have no doubt that anyone else has also previously tried to get an incentive scheme. But we've promised, and we've delivered it, and then we have a big ambition to realize this in 2016, with a grant of 45 million. kr. Now we get to start, and we have a good cooperation with the Christian People's Party in getting budgetary settlements in the Storting. So with regard to the budgets for the future processes, whether they're being revised or in future budgets, I feel confident that we're also going to agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1685	First, a little step into the film fund structure. There are two or three film fund businesses mentioned, and now we know that the Oslo region is consolidating itself, so that is the possibility of getting into it. It is also about funding, so that the Council of State can comment on it. The second thing I want to mention is competence, because now we have established a basic film education at the Norwegian Film School at the University of Lillehammer. There are discussions about the establishment of master's education, but we see, as I was in my post, that more and more of the earnings are in the long run, long productions, and a must think of follow-up and new markets along the way. This is a more market-based competence. Can the Council of State say something about the extent to which a person is thinking of supplementing the film training he currently has, more towards commercial areas of competence – marketing, travel?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1693	In the field of cinematographic competence, and especially in terms of education, it is the responsibility of the Minister of Knowledge. But we're familiar with the fact that the film industry is also itself concerned about this. It is important to make progress, and I feel reasonably confident that they also follow that development closely. The most important thing, I think, is to create a good environment for sustainable development for the film industry, so that the young people who want to do it can start, get an education and bet on a film career, whether it's on the producer's side, be a director or other types of tasks that fall under this. I hope that having a long-term sustainable development of film policy in Norway is the most important contribution that we can all make. That is why a deal in the Storting is also important, that it can stand under changing regimes, but not least over several years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1698	I would first like to thank the Swedish State Council for its good commitment to Sámi film, and SV fully supports the changes in the guidelines that allow the International Sámi Film Institute to work with films and TV series. My first question really applies to that, because this requires a completely different bet from the state, and as I see the film message, one also announces a new bet. Can the State Council first tell a little about the progress of the new initiative, what makes the International Sami Film Institute capable of contributing to TV series and films? The second question relates to a decision that we put forward in the Nordic Council and got an overview of there, about a greater Nordic cooperation on the International Sami Film Institute, so that the other countries also contribute. In what way will the Council of State take initiatives towards the other Nordic countries in order to achieve greater co-financing?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1707	I think the initiative taken in the Nordic Council towards the Nordic countries is very important. As I also said when we had the last meeting of the Nordic Council, it is one of the areas in which I want to engage strongly, not least in order to get with the other Nordic countries with a Sami population that should be included in the funding of ISFI. So far, Norway has been one of the biggest contributors, and perhaps the only contributor. We should put an end to that. There are many others who also benefit from this, and I think that's the most important thing. Now is the time for Norway to take over the presidency of the Nordic Council in a relatively short time, and then we have a good opportunity to put these questions on the agenda as well. I understand that my Nordic colleagues see that it is necessary that the Nordic countries with a Sami population also see that there is a need to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1714	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1717	I will also be allowed to start my speech by commending both the rapporteur, who has guided this work in an excellent way, and all the representatives and parties in the committee for having contributed to a good job. I am very pleased that a joint committee in Stortinget is listening to the important recordings from the film industry, who know where the shoe prints, that we are ensuring a majority and taking good action to strengthen the industry, saves the status of the cinematographer and the Film Commission and improves the message on a number of other points. I am pleased that the Workers' Party's proposals for strengthening and improving the communication have been given a majority. Because even though the message had many good suggestions, some who have done better in the conciliation, we believe that the communication lacked clear and ambitious targets for Norwegian films and ambitions on behalf of the industry. The Labour Party is proud of Norwegian film. We have shown that we have prioritised Norwegian film over eight red-green years with the Cultural Promise, and we will continue to prioritise Norwegian film. We have bigger ambitions on behalf of the industry than the government has, and that message contained. To date, the government has not shown an equally proud tradition, with large budget cuts, which have hit the Norwegian film industry hard. But it's never too late to turn around. Film is not just entertainment, it's an important industry, it's jobs, it's curious, it contributes to tourism. We have many examples of what Norwegian films can do for Norwegian cities and towns. Alvdal in the county where I come from, and Flåklypa Grand Prix, Aukrust and Caprino is a good example of that. Film builds pride and identity. Film must also be a priority in politics, in addition to celebrations on the red runner. If we are to bet on Norwegian films, we need not only greater ambitions on behalf of the industry, but also more concrete measures. The notification continues to say too little about how governments can more actively combat the illegal use of copyright and remuneration protection, or how the aid schemes can stimulate more predictability for the industry and improve profitability for the various actors. The Labour Party will, as I said, have a stronger focus on film art, and we want a greater diversity in Norwegian film. We want a better gender balance in Norwegian productions. Diversity and gender balance in who tells the stories are just about increasing quality in Norwegian film. Setting concrete targets for better gender balance works – it has shown history, also in the film field. Without goals and ambitions, progress is still. It is therefore disappointing that the Minister of Culture does not support the 40 p.m. target that the Workers' Party worked after when we ran, but on the contrary defends having gone away from it. Norwegian film deserves a government council that not only supports increased female participation in Norwegian film but is clear that it is important and expects results. Then there must be political will, and demands must be made. The Labour Party will continue. We are impatient on behalf of Norwegian film. The ladies are real. They have to be let go. It makes Norwegian movies better. The art and the stories that are disseminated become more diverse. Therefore, we go further and want support schemes to stimulate the achievement of a target of fifty-five gender balance in the long term. I think that's a goal that we're going to be able to reach together with an industry that will. In the film success Flåklypa Grand Prix by Caprino and Aukrust, which – as I said – has done very much not just for Norwegian film, but for the village Alvdal in my home state, we meet two characters: Solan and Ludvig. Louis has a somewhat negative view of life. He hesitates to go on big goals, and he takes no chances. The sun, on the other hand, is ambitious, optimistic and jumps into it. Norwegian film deserves that we politicians are more like Solan than Ludvig in film policy. And like Solan, we're optimistic about the future on behalf of Norwegian film. We have ambitions for Norway to grow as a film nation, and we have proposals for action to achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1743	The Norwegian film festivals have a Norwegian, a Nordic and an international mission. Their work is directed towards the film, cinema and media industries around the world. Municipalities throughout the country are hosts, and the bonus for the cities, business, travel and not least the audience is to participate in the film festivals. The offer to the audience is often extensive. Knowledge of narrower film productions that would otherwise never have access is a great value. In many ways, the film industry reports that Norway never made such a small time change when Norway decided to invest heavily in film festivals for decades. We, as politicians, must also be able to do so in the future. It is important to be aware that most film actions start as local or regional initiatives. In this way, it is important to be clearly political in what we want with the film regions, and what they should work like. We should avoid discussions about centre and periphery, or, for that matter, Oslo and the districts, but in sum – political and trade-union – be drivers of active film production in the country. Norway has good filmmakers. Norway has one of the world’s most beautiful frameworks for film production. Norway has also been a driver of the Sami film initiative. I am therefore pleased to hear that the Council of States is clearly aware of, and continues, that it is important for the other Nordic countries to contribute to the economic downturn. The big question now is whether we have the political ability to facilitate narrow-film art as well as larger blockbusters for Norwegian film production. Like the representative, Solhjell, I believe that we are on the right track with Stortinget’s film deal – if we are not in the finish line, we are at least facilitating more and wider film policy in Norway. Who becomes Norway's next Joachim Trier or Margreth Olin, fortunately, is not adopted by the Stortinget. But we can facilitate production and display arenas, opportunities to succeed, yes, even dry to say that in between we can fail to create more experience, more film. So only the future will show who had the famous x-factor. The film industry, like many of the other industries in the art and culture world, is unpredictable. We can't – and we want to – adopt the number of Oscar prizes, but we can have goals. It will therefore be tempting to end by asking a question to a representative of one of the government parties. Ib Thomsen of the Progress Party wants to adopt more quality films, and I ask the question: how is one going to achieve that goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1760	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1763	As the leader of the Nordic Council's knowledge and culture selection, it is good to hear the debate and the commitment that is around Nordic and Norwegian film. The Nordic Council's main session in Reykjavik in October now also discussed the importance of film production and a wide range of services in this area. Special attention was paid to the International Sami Film Institute — ISFI — and the work they are doing in the production of Sami films and television series around it. Governments in Norway, Sweden and Finland have a special responsibility to follow up this important work in the future, as the Council of State also pointed out. That the government is continuing the grant to ISFI is very good. The decision of the Nordic Council of Reykjavik underlined the importance of providing funding to ensure the smooth operation of ISFI in future in Nordic cooperation. During the session the Nordic Ministers of Culture had a joint meeting where this was underlined, and I feel that we got good feedback from the other Nordic Ministers of Culture as well. The International Sami Film Institute has only produced more than 30 short films in a few years that have won high prices worldwide. They are now in the process of their first long film, which is very much expected, and which is already coming in the new year. ISFI is major international in indigenous films. In a short time, they have taken a large and important position in this context. It is therefore important to support this work so that it can both grow and develop further in these areas. Supporting the International Sami Film Institute is supporting the Sami language, the Sami culture, history, identity, pride and not least the future of the Sami people. I hope that the government and the Council of State will follow up the initiative taken at the Nordic Council of Ministers of Culture in Reykjavik, and that we will receive a good and a forward-looking funding, not only for the production of films, but also for the operation of the International Sami Film Institute in Kautokeino in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1778	Let me first point out that in the big message there have been some errors about the media factory that unfortunately are repeated by the committee in the setting. I would therefore like to try to correct it by stating that the media factory had a 30-year anniversary last year. We're referring to some of the activities that turn out to be a little bit precise. That's why I want to clarify the following: The media factory in Akershus has been working on talent development in the Oslofjord region for over 30 years and is part of the cultural section of Akershu County. And further: The media factory cooperates with Viken Filmsenter on various talent development programmes and has activities ranging from guidance and lending of production equipment to film courses and workshops, with target groups from higher education to industry. I must regret the somewhat imprecise production of the media factory and hope that it is well accepted that we are trying to straighten it out from the pulpit. So I gave priority to talking about the film deal in my case rapporteur’s post – therefore a few words now about the primary position of the Workers’ Party, which we also write about in the setting. We're glad we got a film deal in place. At the same time, we believe that there are quite a number of areas that remain where a more offensive policy should be pursued. Firstly, we believe that the communication is not ambitious on behalf of the film industry, and that it would be necessary to have clear and quantifiable objectives for film policy in the future. This was also supported by the Swedish Federation of Producers when they were in consultation and asked that precisely the objectives outlined by the government should be followed up with more clear objectives. That is why we are promoting our own proposals on how such objectives might have looked, and will clarify in the work ahead that new steps should be taken, it is important for an ambitious industry, but also an ambitious film policy, with ambitious budgets. Furthermore, we believe that it should be a goal to escalate the funds for film production in the future, preferably through the contribution of streaming actors. The grant schemes should contribute to increased willingness to invest and to the prioritisation of cinematographic art. We believe it is important to put the NFI in place to continue to be responsible for film cultural activities and dissemination, and to strengthen support for film festivals. We will aim to promote our own proposals on these matters further, but are pleased with the things in which we have been given to develop the communication, through the conciliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1791	I was one of those who grew up with six hours of TV and'moviebox', who we went endlessly far to pick up to see the one film we were allowed to see that weekend. I could sit and watch the screen saver on TV for a long time waiting for a broadcast while dreaming about cable TV – which my parents did not want us to have. A revolution has occurred since that time. Audiovisual is perhaps one of the most striking features of our time, and in many ways the film is the root of the audiovisual society as a whole. In that context, the Sámi film effort is very, very interesting. The International Sami Film Institute has in a short time been able to take a dominant role internationally in the film field in relation to indigenous peoples. In just a few years, the Film Institute has produced over 30 short films that have won prizes all over the world. They are now part of one of the first Sami producers to produce long films in a very long time – «Sample Blood», which comes to spring. The key to success has been the combination of skilled, young Sámi filmmakers in Norway, Sweden and Finland, and good strategic leadership at the institute, which has managed to present some of the potentials of Sámi film. The Sami Film Institute represents something as unique as both good industrial policy and good indigenous policy at the same time. It is a good business policy both because film itself creates skills jobs, activity and income, but also because it creates interest in a culture and region – with the potential for ring-fences on everything from travel life to investment. It's a good indigenous policy because the worst thing that can happen to a culture is forethought and forgetfulness. The film raises both the Sami into the general public and the Sami into the public. We all know how important «Veivieren» was to us who lived in the 1980s, whether we were together or not. I would therefore like to pay tribute to the Minister of Culture for having just seen this, and for raising the International Sami Film Institute in the film message, adjusting the guidelines and opening for more than short films – such as TV series and long films – and for announcing a bet. I also want to give tribute to committee leader Harberg for having been an important driver in this work. At the same time, we have to realize that this is just the beginning of a bet. Currently supported by the Institute. Support for 2016 has increased, but is still significantly lower than for the other film centres – despite the fact that the Institute will cover a significantly larger region and is important for the realisation of far more policy areas than film itself. They're also going to expand the activity of movies and TV series, and they're going to get a Nordic joint effort. I would therefore like to ask the Minister to do something about how this increase in the Norwegian bet has been made. I thought she answered the Nordic question that I had before. ‘Giitu!’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1814	The debate is coming to an end. It has, of course, borne the impression that there has been a great deal of consensus in the committee, as this cooperation with the other parties on the Stortinget is good. I had two strings on the note before I was going up now, and one I can almost put away, because it was the International Sami Film Institute, and now there are many who have spoken hot for it. And the job we've done -- I think we can say "we" -- both in the hall now and in the Nordic Council, to get this up, has been a good collaboration. I think the institute up there is such a good example that when we facilitate the development of the environment, they help themselves by pulling themselves after the hair. Because it's amazing how they've lifted themselves up, committed themselves as an international institute, and now we can challenge the countries around, for which they're also doing a job, to be part of and finance. It is good, and it is good to hear that the Council of State takes it seriously – compared to the Nordic work – that the other countries with the Sami population should be involved and contribute. Finally, in the case of Sami: Sami is Sami culture, Sami language, but it is also Norwegian. So it was, as we mentioned here, maybe a film from there that for the first time lifted Norway to the ground as a film producer internationally. We're going to be proud of that, and we're going to take that with us. So just a few comments on that with the Cinemate. I think we might be a little bit unexplained in the formulations some people in the hall here -- we'll say a lot in a short time and then it'll be like this. I think it's important to state: the government never suggested in the message to put down the Cinematography, or to remove it physically or anything. They said they would consider whether it would still be a national task to run the Cinematography, and if it wasn't, how could one then ensure the performance of the national tasks, which also gives access to the international tasks. That's what the government said in the message. That's what we worked on in the committee and in the conciliation, because there were so many requests about it. And as the representative Thomsen said here, there were many good suggestions, and many seemed very good, but when we started going after them in the sea, it turned out that the way we see it now, the main point was to establish that a national cinematography thus also gets access to the international. So we haven't gone into all of the other issues around it, but now it's the NFI that's responsible for them still doing those problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1826	Some very brief comments on the tame of the debate. Firstly, the entire committee agrees on the aim of film policy in the coming years and that it is a general objective. Then I record that there are some of the parties that have some additional targets, but you agree – as regards both the setting up of grants and the overall objectives – on which way to go. I noticed that someone was interested in this with the illegal use of copyright. Last week I had a meeting with, among others. The producer association, and they said they were very satisfied with today's legislation, and that it is now up to the industry itself to put it into practice. So they do not demand that there is something that needs to be done in addition to the legislation that exists today. It's fully usable. So they believe that the rules we already have in place are working according to purpose, and they refer to the judgment against The Pirate Bay and so on, and that the film-sharing service Popcorn Time is now closed. These are some examples of how this works. Some were also covered by the copyright law and how to ensure that rightholders are strengthened in the coming years. Then I would like to remind you that we have announced that we will have a main revision of the copyright law. I have the ambition to be sent to the hearing before Christmas, where different parts of this will be assessed. As regards the International Sami Film Institute, we have proposed in the 2016 budget that it receive a grant of NOK 3 970000. I hope it will be supported in Stortinget when you come to the treatment of it. A very short point on this issue of children's movies, because there are a lot of people who have been in it: I am very happy that children's films have had such a great success as they have in Norway in recent years. There has been a strong commitment to increasing the production of children's films, and it has produced results. It has happened without its own arrangements, but through long-term and perhaps moderate allowances. Today, children’s films are given priority. In the case of the after-stamp, children's film receives 200 pst. support, while e.g. ordinary film gets 100 pst. aid. It's an example of how it's worked, and that this might help you to have the success you're having today. In Sweden, this own children's film consultant and earmarked funds have actually been cut out, as this did not contribute to higher quality or a wider audience. So there are different examples in the Nordic region on which way you've gone. I also think that there's a lot of ways to go on talking about Cinematics, but I see that time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1845	The time was a little button in my first post, and I have another case that I want to stress the importance of. It is the offer and the work that NUFF, the Nordic Youth Film Festival, is doing in Tromsø. NUFF is a short film festival for young filmmakers from all over the world organized in Tromsø every year. I was so lucky to attend that film festival this summer and experienced the work of these young filmmakers, both in advance and not least during the film festival itself. There are filmmakers from all over the world who are under 26 years old. They participate in various workshops and make films during the festival. The municipality of Tromsø, the municipality of Troms County, local business and many volunteers, but also the department contributes valuable support, both financially and not least in the form of work related to this film festival. Like the International Sami Film Institute, there is also a great deal of project support – not operating support – that ensures a sustainable operating model for this. It is young people from all over the Nordic region who are the target population of the NUFF. Due to high travel costs for these young people, especially from Greenland, the Faeroe Islands, Iceland and Åland, many young people are unable to afford to attend this youth film festival. That is why I would like to make a request to the Council of State and the Government that they should follow this up with their Nordic colleagues. This was also discussed in the Knowledge and Culture Committee of the Nordic Council. It was also stressed to the Nordic cultural ministers at Reykjavik that a model must be found to ensure that young people from these countries, who have large travel distances and high travel costs, do not receive an additional cost of participation, but that they have the same starting point as other young people from the Nordic region. I hope that it will be given priority, and that the Council of State will take it up with its colleagues in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1856	I would just like to finish by thanking the Committee and the others who have taken part in the debate for a very good debate, and not least for a very good process in connection with this position. There were great expectations for the message before it arrived, and in important areas it well responds and spreads the course for the future Film Norway in a good way. In some areas, there was strong reluctance and clear criticism, as I feel that the agreement in Stortinget responds in a good way. We're correcting some of the things that were particularly criticised, but we're also gathering on some basic pillars of film policy that will last over time. That's what we're doing today, historical for Film-Norway. All of the games probably went into this with a slightly different primary position. The Labour Party has a clear history over eight years with a red-green government, where through the Wizard we clearly showed that they were willing to bet on Norwegian film, through clear concrete targets, but not least through ambitious budgets. Other parties have a slightly different approach to how to achieve many of the same goals – it gets to be. But we also want to make it clear in the future that we need to achieve some of the most ambitious goals we have, we need to set specific targets, but we also need to be willing to use government funds to set up a sector that is in strong and good development, but is also vulnerable. That is why I would like to thank the members of the Committee and all the parties involved in this agreement for being willing to extend something from the very primary points of view in the desire to achieve a common settlement. There is great respect for it when we know that for all parties it has probably cost a lot, especially for the government parties – it is the government that has presented this message. Then you can put a little different value in some of the words chosen in the equation, and that's the way it is with a wide deal. You can see a little bit different about how the government should follow up on what you've agreed on. I am at least very expecting how the council intends to follow up on what are the concrete orders from Stortinget, and waits for it to be handled quickly. Then I agree with the Central Party, which was in the pulpit and expressed that there should be further work on a more perhaps lasting and comprehensive handling of cinematic characters like that. We haven't gotten into that completely with this deal, but it's full openness to do. With this, I would like to thank everyone for a good debate and for a good process and look forward to the follow-up of the conciliation by the Council of State and the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1869	Only a few short comments at the end: In the case of Sami films and bets in Norway, we are concerned that this grant continues, and that of course these funds can be used for both feature films and – what is new – series. It is a very important measure. Just a brief comment on this matter with Cinemathete, since it has been very prominent in this debate and part of the deal that some people experience and feel is a strong correction of the government's proposal. It has always been the government's premise that the government should continue its responsibility to finance the operation of the Cinematography. It has never been appropriate to step down the business or weaken this offer. Cinematography in Oslo – and I stress Oslo – is a great institution, doing an excellent job of keeping our film history alive. We haven't come in to wind up the Cinematography in Oslo, but we're going to treat it in the same way as the other cinematographers around the country, both because it's going to equalize the Cinematography, and because we want to re-grow the function of the Norwegian Film Institute as a national faculty for the film field. I take note that the Storting today points out that this should be part of the Norwegian Film Institute. Then we'll have a discussion about the way forward. We thought that the Norwegian Film Institute could make an assessment of this, but I take note of what Stortinget has said that one should do. So my last point that I want to mention. There has been a great deal of discussion about this with platform neutrality, and a strong recommendation has been made that we should wait to put the new digital platforms into practice and to make them equal, given that we are looking at new business models or that everyone can contribute. Then I just remember that I am at least very happy that we have received a digitalisation of Norwegian cinema in Norway using the DVD fee. Then it is not that historical developments in Norway have taken place in such a way that it is only the cinema tax that has helped to achieve the result you have today. Since the levy was introduced in 1987, there are 447 million. kr came from the cinema fee, while a total of 886 million. kr has come from the video fee. In fact, a substantial part of what has contributed to the fact that we have today managed to digitise the Norwegian cinemas has been financed by a different fee from the cinema fee. I would then like to take the opportunity to thank you for a good debate. I look forward to good debates on the film industry and Norwegian film policy in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1886	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1900	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1907	Treating people with gambling addiction is demanding. It is an addiction that affects not only individuals but also entire families, circle of friends and workplaces. There are game addicts just waiting for the partner to lie down in the evening so they can sit down in front of the PC and play. Also, the state online games could make the situation worse for those who already depend on the game, and that new groups could be recruited. Government policies shall ensure that game addicts are protected and that games do not lead to any more game problems. Yes, there are several people who get gambling problems also because of legal Norwegian gambling, and it is a cross-thinking. It is also important that we are concerned about this problem. It is not only gambling that can lead to problems, but also computer games. There are many young people who depend on computer games. They do not have problems with money or debt, but getting up in the morning – which can also lead to drop-outs from higher education. This is also a problem that we have to take with us. This action plan will focus more on game research and exchange of knowledge and information than in the previous action plan. Since 2005, there have been 12 million. the means by which to respond to gambling problems. That amount has now increased to $15 million. kr. In addition to the action plan, gambling addiction is also mentioned in the government’s escalating plan for the drug field. It's important to see the whole thing in this area. Actors in the industry are discussing how much is being played abroad, and the figures vary from 1.5 billion. NOK 10 to SEK 10 billion. kr, so here's the grey zone. What are we going to believe, and what numbers are we going to work out from? If you find something in between, the numbers are nevertheless deterrent to games on foreign websites. I don't want to mention that a licensing scheme might give more revenue to both Norwegian sport and culture – that's not what we're discussing here today. At the Inland Hospital, people with gambling addiction are treated. When the phone calls on the Help Line, it is often known that there are people who have had major problems with games and who have allowed the problem to go far too far. The guide tells you how far some people have gone before they contact them. People are confused about the situation they've come into. They like to tell us that they've spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on games -- money they like to borrow to play. It is a demanding situation for the addict, and not least for the relatives. Norway’s three large organisations working against gambling addiction express their concern for the development of gambling policy in Norway. They also show the danger they think Norsk Typing's big online betting represents. They believe that the loss limit is too high. Although the games generate money for good purposes, they fear that many will suffer. Once the loss limit of Norwegian Typing has been reached, they fear – and I – that many will try to win back the money, which is often the first step to gambling addiction, and that they will then switch to foreign online games. A few years ago, slot machines around the scene were available at night. In retrospect, they have been removed. There were first restrictive measures which resulted in the closure of the vending machines at night. Now that Norsk Tipping has come with its online betting, it is blessed by the state that you can also play at night. This is serious and can have great consequences for many. The experience is that people who are desperate about gambling can go so far as to commit financial crime in order to get money to keep playing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1930	The creation of the Norwegian gaming monopoly and Norwegian Typing as its administrator, which for decades has provided a responsible gaming policy with a minimization of the negative consequences of gambling and which has contributed money to the development of volunteering and sport around the country – yes, it was a political choice, and it has been and is a success. As with other political choices, the model of exclusive rights and responsible gambling policy is not always at peace. On the contrary, we see that it is challenged every single day, through foreign gambling companies online, their aggressive marketing, but also by political forces that will liberalize. Illegal actors operating illegally in the Norwegian market are undesirable — undesirable because they represent a lack of responsibility, because they are not concerned with limiting the negative aspects of gambling, and because they do not contribute profits to children and youth, sport and volunteering throughout the country, but, on the contrary, generate profits to private owners’ pockets. The human tragedies that often follow in the wake of gambling addiction are serious. The shadows of gambling are human ships, thousands of people who, by addiction, play away from home and home and destroy entire families, young people who experience insecurity, and people who end up in an economic disaster with lifelong consequences. That's why it's so important that we in Norway have a goal of limiting these fates, and for this reason we have chosen to pursue a game policy that puts just responsibility first. For the Workers' Party, this is a matter of course, and that principle is also leading the future. It is this principle that is challenged by changes in game policy, which this government implements step by step, divided, such as the removal of the ban on poker, the opening of new lotteries and the investigation of gambling sensitivities. There is no doubt that there is a clear ideological divide in game policy between those who stand up as defenders of the model of exclusive rights – who stand side by side with Norwegian sport, Norwegian voluntarism and the gambling addicts – and those who want to liberalize, drop more and let them make money on people's addiction, and who therefore constantly challenge the model. It doesn't hold to say in celebrations that you want to maintain today's system, that you're on the verge of volunteering and sports, when you choose to go the opposite way to volunteering, sports and those who warn you of the dangers of increased addiction, recommend that you do. Several are likely to say today that the government only makes the necessary changes. That's wrong. It's a rhetorical way to cover your own liberalisation line. If you were busy cleaning up, you could clean up the way your finders did, by securing a strong exclusive model without liberalizing and letting more people out. The proposers, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, believe that it is incomprehensible that the government, at the same time as it has notified and works with a big message of gambling policy, chooses to implement and open up liberalisation in the field. We – and most of the hearing bodies with us – believe that the government must suspend the ongoing processes until the Storting has had the opportunity to carry out an overall review of such a message. I record with the satisfaction of the Council of State's statements of this weekend that it will not be possible to implement legislative changes and grant new licences during this enlargement period, and that the Council of State also points out in a comment that she has received two reports saying that it is not possible to respect the social policy considerations and the economic conditions for sport and volunteering and at the same time introduce such licences for foreign gambling. We agree. I am pleased with the signals of the Council of State, and I hope that she can confirm this view today. For the Workers' Party, standing up to the monopoly of gambling, fighting against gambling addiction and the devastating effects it has on thousands of lives, and standing alongside Norwegian voluntarism and sport will always be important. That is why we are also listening to volunteering, sport and supervision in terms of their concerns and their needs, and we are pursuing a consistent policy to maintain a responsible gambling policy, where the government instead implements it piece by piece and split.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1951	A metaphor that is often used when a new government takes over and things are in order is that the new government comes to the ‘you and covered table’. This was not the case with game policy. The party was over, the room was abandoned, and the Right-Fremskritspart government had to fold up the sleeves and grab hold of the cleaning and dishes. The gambling policy was voiced and dealt with at random, which was evident when ESA announced the opening of proceedings against Norway due to the inconsistent gambling policy, the level of discrimination and indifference. The exclusive right model was in acute danger, and we had to take quick and clear action to save it. It is then strange when the Workers' Party attacks the Right to want to gamble with the exclusive model, when it was the Right who had to save it for 12 hours after the Red-Green government sent it at full speed towards the dive. Today's representative proposal contains nine points. Here wide-opened doors, all the time six of the points have been completed or are in a process. One of the points is unrealistic, one is a blow in the air and one is inspired by regimes we don't want to compare with. We're continuing to clean up. There are five smaller non-dependent lotteries open, proposals have been made to amend the Gambling Act so that revenues from the Extra game will be distributed through the profits of Norsk Typing, and the government has announced a big-mouth message to address the whole of Norwegian gambling policy. Norwegian gambling policy has two objectives: to ensure that gambling addiction is taken into account, and to distribute profits for humanitarian, sport and culture purposes. It's billions of dollars in this way that go to volunteering, and we have to pursue a policy that doesn't weaken this income flow, while gambling addiction doesn't increase. This is possible through a liability regime of which the different actors must be a part and in the ongoing assessment of the placing on the market. It is a pleasure that gambling addiction in Norway seems to be a decreasing problem, but this is an image that can change quickly, and it can also contain darkness. I also hear that within today's regime there is too much and too aggressive marketing, as well as for liberal limits on how much you can play away, also within the exclusive right model. We must follow this closely. It is important that Norwegian Typing goes ahead with a very good example, as this is the main argument for today's model. Even though we are now taking action to clean up the game policy, there are dark clouds in the horizon. An increasing proportion of the waste we nordics carry out is going online. Land-based games such as the good old lotto and tippoupon have a falling trend. This, together with the fact that well over half of all online games are on unregulated and foreign-based websites, and that this proportion is increasing, gives cause for concern. Putting the two trend curves on top of each other, we see that in a not distant future, Norwegian Typing and thus the exclusive right model will be challenged. The current recipients of the surplus will see that the pot is getting smaller, and it will force a change. We can't successfully shut the outside world out, and this will eventually make everyone realize. At the same time, there is a risk that when this occurs, it will be very rapid; therefore, the forthcoming Single European Act will also need to discuss this in-depth. It's naive to think that we can regulate ourselves to future success in the field of games, given the technological developments we see. There are still some threads that flicker in the wind on the field. For example, Rikstototo is located under one department, Norsk Tipping under another. Competition from abroad is – as we are aware – in strong growth. We have a new lottery regulation that, necessary as it was, has created uncertainty about Norway's perhaps least dangerous lottery, namely the pantelottery. The biggest danger with the Pantelotteriet is probably related to the product you buy before you take the trip to the store with the empty goods, and then there is another addiction we're fighting. Lotteries of e.g. the type of Pantelottery, which, in addition to not being addictive, stands out by not having money as a stake, they do not offer replay, and they give more share back to its purpose. Such lotteries should be discussed separately in the forthcoming call for proposals. I want to repeat that we are cleaning up, and we do not least see that the majority of the points in today's draft representative were taken care of before the proposal was put forward. Furthermore, I would like to stress that the government saved the exclusive model, after it was put into play by the red-green government. This model is the best tool we have today. However, we look forward to the forthcoming report on gambling policy, because we see that today's situation is not sustainable over time either in terms of gambling addiction or in terms of revenue for volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1970	This representative’s proposal for a responsible and solidarity policy on gambling has been put forward primarily as an initiative for a comprehensive review of the gambling policy in the United Kingdom. We believe that we need a broad and comprehensive debate on Norwegian gambling policy. After the proposal was presented in April, the Council of State made it clear that there is to be a big deal about gambling policy, and we are very pleased about that. As we write in the vote, we therefore do not promote proposals for individual elements of the game policy now. We will await the comprehensive review of the policy area in the paper before considering individual actions in the field of gambling. We think that's wise. We also hope that the government will carry out an overall and fundamental review of the gambling policy and listen to the Storting's attitude to the message before the government decides on or actually implements liberalisation in the field. For the Christian People's Party, the social policy elements of gambling policy are the most important. Authorities are responsible for combating gambling addiction and social challenges arising from gambling and gambling. It is about political regulation to prevent large costs for individuals. It is about the fact that volunteering and sport cannot be the recipients of money that has created social problems. The human tragedies that can follow in the wake of gambling addiction are serious, and gambling addiction affects not only the individual player but entire families, including children. Game policy must aim to limit the number of game problems. Norway has a tradition of putting responsibility first in its game policy, and this principle must also lead in the future. We note that more, including Actis, believe that this principle is now challenged by changes in the game policy that are taking place this expansion period, such as the removal of the ban on poker and the opening of new lotteries. With regard to the future of the Pantelotteriet, we understand that it is now to be decided by the application process around the five new lotteries the government wants. I would like to ask you a question about that: is it so to understand that ESA considers the matter as finished before Stortinget has made its decision on the Extra game and before the Pantelotteriet's status is clarified? And what do the Councils of State think about the future of the Pantelotteriet? I guess the government can't guarantee that the Pantelotteriet wins the lottery, and so there's a real risk that the Pantelotteriet will have to go down, despite the fact that the lottery is hard to say to challenge today's exclusive model and is not a game that leads to gambling addiction. The Christian People's Party believes that the government should consider how the pantheon can be continued and regulated, as is the non-aggressive, non-addictive and non-money-based game concept as it is. We can't understand that the government wants to put down the Pantelotteriet. With regard to the creation of new large lotteries outside the key, we disagree whether this is something that threatens or saves the exclusive model. I think we just have to realize that we don't agree on that. However, I would like to ask why it is that, in the run-up to a comprehensive and fundamental review of gambling policy, the government chooses to carry out major and controversial liberalisations in the field. In our view, it is a more sensible approach to put this process at rest and not to take decisions and implement liberalisation until all the premises are on the table and the Stortinge has had the opportunity to carry out an overall review. So the Christian People's Party does not want new and liberalizing initiatives in game policy. An overall review before any changes would be of major importance to all parties. We believe that the proposal for a representative should be annexed to the protocol pending the announcement of the Government's announcement, and we do so with the expectation that the proposal for a representative and the vote will be included as part of the basis for the preparation of a comprehensive review of the game policy presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e1991	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for putting this proposal on the table in Stortinget, and also for ensuring that an overall increase indicates that a wish for a roll-out message and a comprehensive review of the game policy. This is about a responsible gambling policy, but it is also about the one-off model that has been involved in and funded Norwegian sport for over 65 years, and which has been an important history for building up activities, facilities and activities related to sport, volunteering on a broad basis, cultural actions and societal purposes in other areas. I have to say I'm a little surprised at the history that one here is trying to get on the Right and the Advance Party side. Yes, we even have a rapporteur who almost did not justify his report, which was quite surprising. But history is, in fact, as follows: It is that we were faced with an overeager government to liberalize so that it appeared – and then they did. And then they created uncertainty about the exclusive model both through the proposals on the legalization of poker tournaments, by allowing private poker teams and by allowing new lotteries. They then shifted their boundaries and created uncertainty about the exclusive right model and about gambling policy in general. Now they pull the brakes, and that's good, that's good. But it's a strange form of history that it has something to do with the red-green government and ESA that they're now pulling the brakes on the speed they sailed up when they chose to put the whole system of the exclusive model of uncertainty in relation to the proposal they made in the eagerness of the first part of the reigning period. Like the rapporteurs behind the motion for a resolution, the Central Party is pleased that we are finally going to have our own big message on gambling policy, so that the Stortinget can discuss it in full. We are also pleased with the state council's statements that the government will now defend the exclusive model, and that one does not want to go further with licensing games outside Norsk Typing. It was not one of course when one heard the representatives of the government parties just after the government change. For the games from Norwegian Typing are important, and they are still absolutely crucial. Then we are open to tighten up the law, both so that we can stop TV advertising for illegal games and more effectively enforce the ban on foreign payments to gaming companies. We're also open, if necessary, to be tighter than Norwegian Typing in terms of the way a player plays. If the proponent party spokesperson and the rapporteur are so concerned about the gambling addiction that he now expressed, he should also listen a little to what Actis said in his response to the hearing on the possibility of, among other things. blocking the websites of non-resident gambling companies, as is done by a good number of EU countries. It would have been a good measure to also bring some of the problems of gambling and gambling addiction to life. The centre party will continue to challenge the government to protect today’s gambling monopoly and to strengthen – not weaken – today’s responsible gambling policy, on which there is a broad consensus today in this Chamber, and that is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2004	The representative proposal we are discussing today is based on a responsible and solidarity policy on gambling and points to important issues in this policy: How are we supposed to ensure responsible gambling? How are we to protect the legal players in the Norwegian gambling market? How are we to ensure that the revenue from gambling and lotteries is as good as possible for ideal purposes? These are issues on which the government is concerned, and this is also the reason why the government has decided to submit a spillover notice on the gambling policy. It's now over ten years since the last complete review of the gambling field. During this period, the field has had a violent technological development. We see that there are new types of gambling and lotteries that are popular today compared to ten years ago. Technological developments are still taking place rapidly. In addition, there have also been regular discussions in the media, and not least here in Stortingen, about the principles and the regulatory model that will underpin the future gambling policy. I therefore believe that it is time for a new comprehensive review of this policy area. It is also the case that the Sundvolden platform says that the government will pursue a policy that takes care of gambling addicts and ensures that revenues from gambling in Norway will serve as ideal targets. The notified gambling message will clarify the objectives of the gambling policy and at the same time make a choice as to the regulatory model we will have in the future. Furthermore, the Communication will look closely at the measures to be taken to address gambling problems and other unfortunate consequences of gambling. We also need to look at how efficient operation in Norwegian Typing and other measures can ensure that as much of the revenue from gambling and lotteries as possible is due to ideal purposes. In addition, there is an unresolved question of how best to protect legal players in the gambling market from competition from non-regulated actors who are not allowed to offer gambling in Norway. This will be discussed in detail in the notified gambling message. I have noticed that the members of the Committee, in different ways, have been concerned about the future of the Pantelottery. Some members of the Committee ask the Government to consider a special arrangement for the Pantelotteriet. I would like to point out that the government has now cleared up the mess in the lottery code that arose under the previous government. This is not a rewriting of history, these are realities. The immodest practice and the unclear legislation that existed at that time led to ESA actually opening a case against Norway. ESA asked questions at Norsk Typing's lottery. The whole exclusive model was thus challenged. The case is now closed after some changes in the lottery legislation have been implemented by the government. As a result of the changes, we have a regulatory framework that is predictable and that treats the players on the private lottery market. I would strongly warn against Stortinget going in for the creation of new special arrangements on the lottery market. The discrimination of the previous government against the actors was precisely the basis for ESA opening the case, a matter which also affected the scope of the exclusive right model. I would also like to remind you that the Pantelotteriet was part of the basis for ESA opening this case. Although ESA has now closed the case, I have no doubt that ESA is closely following developments in the gambling and lottery legislation in Norway. I do not want to create new special solutions for single actors or allow discrimination, as the previous government did. Such solutions will create new concerns in this field and could put the model of exclusive rights at risk again. Private operators who want to establish lottery in Norway must therefore apply for this in the framework of the legislation we have today. I have noted the various recommendations made by the committee members in the vote. Of course, I will take these recommendations with me and consider further work on the gambling message, and I look forward to submitting the message to Stortinget in autumn 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2027	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2030	It is good that the government and the Council of State say that they want to intensify their efforts to combat gambling addiction. Norwegian viewers are exposed to nearly 1000 illegal television advertisements for gambling from foreign gaming companies every day. In order to limit the number of addiction problems and to protect the exclusive right model, we need to increase efforts against illegal advertising and online gambling sites. In a new study commissioned by Actis, Sentio reports 64 pst. by us to have seen gaming advertising for such companies, but only six out of ten know that it is the type of company it is advertised for – outside the Norwegian Typing model. One way to stop this may be to block websites, which have been mentioned in the debate earlier. 15 EU countries have done this. The Council of State says she will consider doing so in connection with the Storing Communication, but it will not arrive before the autumn of 2016. Why is the government so passive and will wait instead of launching such a rigorous tool against illegal advertising now?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2039	Now it's like this, as I said, that we're going to provide a message for the Storing. Of course, we will consider all the measures that can be taken and go through them. What we have done now, however, is that we have got a new action plan on gambling problems, where we have increased efforts and at the same time said that the increased effort should contribute to an increased information campaign, so that it is also clear to those who play, whether they are actually playing on the games directed by non-licensed companies in Norway, and which do not follow what is Norwegian law in this respect. I very much believe in a prevention campaign, and I hope that this will help us to see better results. But, as I said, we will come back and look at various measures that can help strengthen the accountability regime in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2047	Such illegal advertising of foreign aggressive games is a threat to the model of exclusive rights, leading to more people becoming addicted. That's the big picture. An information campaign is well and good, but in this context it will be a bit like drying up under a dripping crane, instead of turning it back again. When we know that 15 EU countries, including our neighbouring countries, have introduced a blockade of such websites, when we see it working, when the majority of people ask for more measures and the supervision recommends it – why can't the government just do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2052	So, as I said in my post, it's been ten years since we had a debate in this room where we discussed a game policy. I just want to remind you that in eight of those years, the Workers' Party was the one that put and crashed. There was a good opportunity to address the different issues if you thought it was important. But I record that what happened in the period when the Workers' Party was in power was that they did not take up the challenges that were actually there – and that helped ESA open a case against us because there was not a good enough regulation on the lottery side – nor did they contribute to cleaning up this. That was the basis for the exclusive right model actually being put at risk, and that there was the possibility that the exclusive right model was overturned. I am interested in getting a broad political debate in Stortinget. Then I'm going to make sure that we get the different kinds of measures up and running so that we have a good opportunity to get a broad consensus on this for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2057	I think the representative Arnstad gave an excellent account of the falsification of history to the government in his post recently. But I want to repeat my question, because I get no answer. How can it be that the government on the one hand will wait for further measures to limit illegal advertising of illegal games that help challenge the exclusive model, weaken the profits of Norsk Typing and make more gambling addicts — while on the other hand they do not see any problems opening up to liberalisation in the field of games before the notification comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2062	As I have said, we intend to go through the different types of actions when we present this message. I have now understood from the proposers behind this Amendment 8, that we are pleased to have a broad discussion in the Stortinget. I would also like to think that there is an opportunity to wait until the government has been able to evaluate the various proposals and promote them towards Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2067	The government has now taken an initiative to create five new lotteries. My question is: Does the government consider that this means that people are going to play more – corresponding to these five lotteries – so that there will be no consequences for what Norwegian sports and social organisations get through the key, or can you risk reducing the profits from Norwegian Typing accordingly? And how will the Minister of Culture meet it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2072	I must again underline the basis for doing this. There's two reasons why we've opened up to these new lotteries. It was not possible to continue either with the Pantelotteriet or with the Extra Foundation in the future. ESA has pointed out both of these conditions, and that is the basis for us to now have a regulatory framework that should be open to everyone. The second is that the government has said that we also want the humanitarian organisations operating internationally to also have the opportunity to operate with lotteries in Norway. I'm not worried that this is going to help weaken the basis of the incomes that have come under Norwegian Typing's lottery and gaming activity. Rather, on the contrary, I think this is part of helping us to get it into safe forms. Now it's predictable, there's five new lotteries. I know there are eight applications. So it remains to be seen how many of these are qualified to go on in the round when the Lottery Authority goes through this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2077	I hear why the government has chosen to set up these five new lotteries. So you choose to do it to clean up Norwegian game policies. But my question is whether the government believes that people are going to play the correspondingly more – corresponding to these five lotteries – or share my concern that this will have consequences for the profits of Norsk Tipping that go to social, sport and volunteering. Does the Minister of Culture not see that it can have those consequences? My question is, if these are the consequences, does the Minister of Culture have an answer to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2082	I'm not worried that this is going to challenge the exclusive model. If it had, we would actually not have suggested it. It is very clear in the Sundvolden statement that opening up to private lotteries is not going to challenge the exclusive right model. I've had regular meetings with ESA about that. So ESA has set up a case against the previous government, which had a code that was very unclear. So now we have managed to get a code that ESA has actually closed the case on the basis of. I'm not worried about that. And I remind the whole Stortinget that the basis that we have approved the exclusive model in ESA is the consideration of the gambling addicts – that we actually have a responsible regime. It is important to continue, and that is also the basis for the government to stand firm on the exclusive model.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2087	I wasn't really going to take the word to line, but I was: Instead of the fact that the representatives of the government parties only have to keep their lecture on what happened in the past, it must be possible to get an answer to what the government thinks are good tools and instruments – or not. The question is, does the Council of State consider what is being pointed out about the possibility of blocking websites from non-resident gaming companies that are not authorised in Norway to be a good tool? And will it be relevant for the government to use this tool?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2094	As I have said, we will consider different types of instruments, including this instrument, when we put the matter before the Storting next harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2099	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2105	From the first day the government’s eagerness to liberalise its gambling policy has led to strong reactions. It is in stark contrast to the efforts of the Council of State to turn the debate today on some sort of clearing project after the last government. Volunteering, sport and Cultural Norway have a close relationship with the one that has been the exclusive model for many years, precisely because of Norwegian Typing's profits and the key. But what I think the government and government parties have overlooked is the fact that, for example, sport is essential not only to be financed but also to be financed. LNU – or Norway’s children’s and youth organisations – is clear that they do not want income from games that contribute to gambling problems and gambling addiction. They remind us of the automatic conciliation. Organisation Norway has been almost in line to ensure that we do not open up to operators who have weaker protection regimes than Norsk Typing. If there is anything more than the word behind the government's voluntary declaration, it should lead to an immediate cancellation of all forms of gambling, along with blocking the advertising of illegal gambling and mindless gambling companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2118	The Norwegian gambling monopoly was created to combat gambling dependence and the social challenges of gambling and gambling. It's still like that, and it still has to be like that. Responsibility is the main reason why the model of exclusive rights is good for each and every one, and for society as a whole. Any future gambling policy must be responsible. We're in favour of an exclusive model because it works after the intention. Norway has few problems with gambling dependence compared with other nations. The world's strictest regime of accountability works as intended. Control and control of the offers from Norwegian Typing is much larger because the company is all-time by the state. Unlucky consequences of games can easily be regulated by ‘a phone to Hamar’. The model of exclusive rights has the amazing added effect of the fact that the entire surplus is for good purposes for social and humanitarian work, for culture and sport. For each of the heads left after premiums, the exclusive model gives 62 cents for good purposes. A future licence model equal to the Danish one only gives 20 cents. There is simply a lot more money for good purposes with an exclusive model. Today's model provides three times as much money from the profits of social work, voluntary work. It's sensible, rational and economical for the big community. Entrepreneurs who want to enter Norway argue that there will be more money for good purposes under a licensing system. It won't. The license and competition will eat Norwegian Typing's surplus. One ‘exchanges’ 62 cents by 20 cents per cent for child labour and youth work. If there is to be more money from this, it must be played for three times as much, with the negative consequences it has for gambling addiction. Foreign gambling companies do not want to enter Norway to strengthen Norwegian voluntarity, on the contrary. Even if all the regulatory considerations are raised on the boat, a licensing system will not give more money to the beneficiaries than the exclusive right model. We are constantly hearing that the foreign companies say that the sport in Denmark has received hundreds of millions of dollars after the introduction of a licensing arrangement. It's a lie. In the fall, the government in Denmark had to grant 50 million. extra dollars for sport as a result of a fall in income. Stakeholders who are currently circumventing Norwegian law do not stop offering their services even if someone is licensed. As long as there is no stronger control of foreign supply, there will always be a grey market. The Labour Party wants the government to increase its efforts to stop unwanted advertising of games. We want the government to strengthen the law that prohibits payment transactions, and want the government to use blocking IP addresses of the same companies. Today, Sentio Research presented a study in Cultural News that shows that 7 out of 10 in Norway are for blocking IP addresses, as is already done in 15 EU countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2139	I want to link some comments to some of the posts that have been. First, to the representative Bekkevold, who wondered if the Pantelotteriet's status had now been clarified as ESA had closed the case. That's something of the essence: yes, it's in many ways, because now you're introducing a non-discrimination, which was the challenge. Then the representative Bekkewold says that the Pantelotteriet did not challenge the exclusive right model. Well, it meant that it did, because it was discriminated against – not the nature of the lottery, but because it was a ground for discrimination. That's exactly what the problem was. Then I also notice the concern of the representative Bekkevold that the money that might go to the new lotteries – as far as I could understand – is less valuable because they go to humanitarian organisations abroad. Otherwise, the Christian People's Party would like the aid to the rest of the world not to be held up for money spent at home humanitarianly. But game or not, and whether you're happy about it, or not, at least the representative gets to hope for the winning luck of the Pantelotteriet in the upcoming draw and take it into his evening prayer. The representative Arnstad believed that the uncertainty surrounding the exclusive right model came as a result of this government's introduction of the new lotteries. It's with respect to not reporting correctly. ESA opened a case that concerned the Pantelotteriet and the Postal Code Lottery, and she called it a false storyteller. I would say that her attempt at it looks more like a history falsification. The representative of Trettebergstuen also requests that the processes and changes be put in place now pending the notification and a comprehensive review of Norwegian gambling policy. It was also the representative, Mr Becquerad. However, there are nine concrete proposals in this proposal for a representative. Are these processes and changes that are in the nine points also to be put to rest, or is it just those points that you don't like to be put to rest? Because when you talk, for example. to block IP addresses or to seek to prevent illegal advertising, as it is called – it is then sent to Norway from other countries and is by definition not legally illegal in Norway – these things will be put to life, while some other processes will be suspended. So I'm a little bit curious about that call. So there's going to be a big message with an overall review of Norwegian game policy, where these and other points are going to be carefully discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2152	There have been several people who have asked me why the government can't wait with the five lottery tickets until the game message is finished. I just repeat: as the ESA opened a case against Norway with a background of unfair regulation and unfair practices in the lottery field, it was necessary to make changes quickly. These amendments led to the adoption of a new legislation in February of this year, with clear and predictable conditions for private operators. The authorisations were issued and the Lottery Authority is now in the process of evaluating these applications. ESA has assumed that we allocate these lotteries during 2016. We now want to calm down around this field to ensure that the matter does not come to an end again, and that is why ESA has now closed the case. They're safe on what we've said that we're going to do. It may sound as if only games had to be played on the Internet by non-licensed international gaming companies in Norway to contribute to gambling addiction in Norway and that there will be the five new lotteries that will contribute to it. But it's actually the most dangerous interactive games, not the lotteries. And we have a claim on the five new licenses that are now being given – or on these lotteries – that they should be non-addictive. We think it's very important to stress to everyone that of course Norsk Typing also has games today that have contributed to the fact that there are actually some who have become addicted to gambling. It's not like Norwegian Typing's game has not helped to bring it about – it's also very important to underline it. Then I also want to say to Becquerad that 50 pst. the profits of the five new lotteries go to international humanitarian organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2161	I know that 50 pst. of the profits of the new lotteries will go to international humanitarian organisations – these are new organisations. My question in the line-up was whether the council thought people would play as much more as these five new lotteries correspond, that the profits of Norwegian Typing will be quite stable. I never got an answer to that. So to the representative Eidem Løvaas: we choose to propose to attach this matter to the protocol, just waiting for a big message to be notified. But, of course, we expect that the things we have pointed out in this proposal for a representative will also be commented on and taken care of in this big message. It's not about going on with any points, while we're going to wait with other points until the message comes. We attach this matter to the Minutes. We've been very clear on that. So to the Pantelotteriet, because there's one thing I'm wondering: I'm recording that the Minister of Culture is surprised and disappointed that we're at all promoting anything in a note, or saying something in a note, pointing to the future of the Pantelotteriet. We have from our side, that is, the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, asked the government to assess how the pantheon can be continued and regulated as the non-aggressive, non-addictive and non-money-based game concept it is. It's really just about getting a clarification of the Pantelotteriet's position. If we read the comments of the Right Party and the Advance Party, we see that the Right Party and the Advance Party have gone separately. So two government parties have their own specific comments. Right says: ‘These members will show that the government has issued five licences for non-advanced lottery tickets, and note that the Pantelotteriet will be able to be maintained if licensed under this scheme. However, these members are asking that this type of non-addictive lotteries have a high share of humanitarian work, do not allow for replay on gain, and, in addition, do not have money to do so, are specifically addressed in the notified gambling policy notification.’» So here, the right-hand side is saying that maybe you can have a special arrangement with the Pantelotterie anyway. The party of progress writes in its note: ‘These members will ask the government to find a solution to secure the future of the Pantelotteritery. These members will demonstrate that one solution may be to lay down a specific rule granting lotteries, which are not addictive and where money is not used as an effort, a permanent authorisation for humanitarian purposes.’;» It's a little strange that the Minister of Culture can't even comment on these comments from the two government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2184	What I think it is necessary for the Minister of Culture to clarify here today, other than simply to say that one cleans up after the red-green – it is otherwise good to carry out the cleaning up that was started under the red-green government in the case of the Extra game, the Minister of Culture has full support for – is about why one does not clear the Finnish road. What did ESA say when they tried to clear the Finnish road and wanted to put these lotteries under Norwegian Typing without having to give more opportunities to compete for the Norwegian gambling money? What did ESA say to that? It might be interesting to hear the Minister of Culture explain. And why couldn't the Minister of Culture convince ESA that the pantheon doesn't create gambling addiction? It might also be interesting to hear a little bit more about it. Then we have the question that has not been answered here today, and which I believe the Minister of Culture has to answer: what happens now when 1.5 billion. kr will be spent, and others will get the profit from those games? What happens to Norwegian sport then? What happens to the humanitarian organisations operating in Norway? Are they going to compensate for this? It must be possible for the Minister of Culture to answer on a matter that is so important for the financing of volunteering in Norway and on which everyone is concerned. So there are still some very important questions. The last thing I could also imagine the Minister of Culture commenting on is this: there are previous positions where the government parties have said that five lotteries and 300 million. kr is too small. There should be higher limits on the amount of money and more licences should be available. Has the Minister of Culture now overrun his office in Stortinget and decided that it should not be like that? Can you guarantee that you will not get an extension in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2197	I almost don't know where to start. This is one of the most wonderful debates I've been in during the course of these six years. Here, one by one, we go to the pulpit and we say that we're dedicated to preserving the exclusive model. The government, having received clear warnings from ESA, has ensured that the exclusive right model is secured. There's been a hurry to do something about it. They warned the matter against us. They said exactly what it was. That story cannot be discussed, even though someone here has tried to tell another story. That's what it was about. They were the ones on the outside who were not in a system and in a treatment that gave equal treatment. Then they clean it up, quickly and efficiently, so that there will be no cause, and then there will be thunderstorms about postponing it and everything. I wonder if we can get people to come up to the pulpit and say who here was willing to gamble on that ESA probably wouldn't do anything about it, ESA doesn't tend to open things and do anything about things. Who wanted to gamble on it? Now think about what the option was. It would have been that we had no longer had the exclusive model. How would it go with the money for those who are now getting money from Norwegian Typing? I want those who were willing to gamble on it, who will postpone it, and who would not do these grips, to answer. That's the reality, and one can try out all sorts of stories, but the facts are on the table: that's what ESA pointed out, what they thought we had to clean up, and that they drew the case when it was cleaned up. It can't be very difficult. Then there's been a thunderous talk about licensing. It's not a theme at all. It has not at all been the subject of its introduction. It's not a theme. It is probably mentioned in the message that comes. So it's a little weird to hear it. I think we should be happy that the government has now cleaned up. That there are now some lotteries on the outside of Norwegian Typing, had to be cleaned up. Where that money comes from, we don't know. I'm probably afraid that it's just being bought lots for it as well, and that the other one continues as before. I'm worried about the totality, also about what's happening within Norwegian Typing, and I'm happy to grasp it when we get a complete message. I think that's where we're going to put the resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2210	Kårstein Eidem Løvaas has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2213	I would like to express my satisfaction with Mr Bekkevold's statement when he points out that what you are doing now is to attach this protocol, pending the overall review, which comes in the communication next year. Then he made a small, funny point that the Right and Advance Party went a little bit each way. Then it might be interesting to point out that it obviously makes the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party as well, as the Workers' Party was very focused on the fact that you couldn't wait for the upcoming message. So there is, in fact, quite a gap among the proposers. A brief comment on the so-called Finnish road, on which Aasrud was in. Well, there are probably some advantages there and some experiences to get from Finland too. The main challenge will be to see why gambling dependence is a greater problem in Finland than in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2222	To the representative Harberg attached this with a licensing arrangement: the government has now investigated this with a licensing arrangement and the consequences, and there is no doubt that the answers were very clear in this area. Neither in the case of gambling addiction nor in the case of financing for good purposes is the licensing of the good. So I do not therefore hope, as far as the future wholesale notification is concerned, that the licensing system will be further explored, or discussed in particular. The Workers' Party supports the presentation by the Government of a new large-scale notification, but accountability and predictability must be at the root of such a large-scale notification. We hope that the message will prejudge the existence of the exclusive right model and will preferably be strengthened, and that any future gambling policy will take care of gambling addicts and gambling addiction. In addition, it is necessary to ensure that the income from gambling will be passed on to children and young people in the future. In a joint meeting with the Nordic sports federations in September this year in Ålborg, there was no doubt that the Norwegian model was well anchored, and they looked up very much to how we did it in Norway. But not least the Finnish model was presented, and is, as Rigmor Aasrud here says, a model that is increasingly moving towards coordinating all game policies in one and the same company, thus strengthening the model of exclusive rights, strengthening the funding of the various organisations, and of children and young people, and humanitarian and social work. It is perhaps an even better way to go than to open up new games in other areas, which will weaken already good revenues for these organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2231	Only to confirm the end here: The new lottery code will not overturn the exclusive rights model. Under the EEA Agreement, it is possible to have a limited private lottery market at the same time as an exclusive playing and lottery model. The government considers that the changes that have now been adopted are within the EEA Agreement, and so we have also been confirmed by ESA. It has always been that there are private lotteries alongside the exclusive rights model in Norway. There was also practice under the previous government regime, and that is not what it has been disputed about. But there may have been a disagreement about how many, and what I have criticized, and which is a fact, is that it was a dissimilar practice that was underlying, that just helped to make it a mess. I just point out again that the new legislation treats the private lottery operators equally, and that will therefore give new income opportunities for volunteering. Lotteries are not to challenge the exclusive right model, nor are they addictive; they should not contribute to the actual development of gambling addiction. It is a fact that it is the most dangerous interactive games, not the lotteries, and the requirement – I repeat again – for the five new ones is that they should not be addictive. And Norwegian Typing also has games today in the category «hazardous», e.g. The ‘oddsen’ contributes to it. Therefore, accountability measures are also very important, and also that rules of play can be changed quickly by the ministry if it turns out that it is necessary to tighten up. In fact, I think it might also be appropriate to mention that it was precisely the fact that a national lottery, Panto, that is, the Pantelottery, was allowed, which contributed to the development that one did, while others, similar applications were not dealt with by the previous government. That was what formed the basis for ESA actually opening up a case – and then one points to the Finnish scheme and whether we have assessed whether we should introduce it. If you had introduced the Finnish model, there would have been no possibility for Panto to get any permission, so there must obviously be some misunderstandings here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2241	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 6-12 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2324	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 6-12.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2330	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2338	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the extension of Lower Otta for the Stortinget to be submitted by the Government.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Council asks the Minister for Oil and Energy to ensure that the consequences of the development of Lower Otta are adequately addressed in line with the law.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2376	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party 2, by Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 2 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the framework conditions and strategy for the large-scale development of liquid sea winds in Norway in the context of the Energy Communication.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2402	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to consider setting requirements for using zero-emission technologies as sea breezes for the energy supply of offshore oil and gas installations, for example for pressure support [[water injection]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2453	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party The Green proposals No. 2 and 3, by Terje Aasland, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, 4-7, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-7, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for action to be taken on how the development of new technologies for reducing CO2 emissions from ferry transport can be accelerated.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to assess the ferry connections suitable for the use of pure electric power and the extent to which the mains power supply needs to be strengthened in order to facilitate the use of such technology.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked to facilitate the use of new technologies and foreseeable competitive conditions by introducing standardised ferry offers.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The Government is asked to ensure that the development of new and immature technologies for marine emission reductions is given priority in the preparation of a new mandate for Enova.» The voting boards showed that there were 70 votes against and 32 votes in favour of the Labour Party proposals. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 16.35.30]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2498	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2503	The result is that 69 voted against and 33 voted in favour of the proposals – and therefore the proposals are not accepted. There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to raise a case on how the State can contribute to the use of zero-emission technologies in future ferry tenders and to the timely speeding up of these tenders.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2522	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for a major programme of technology development in low and zero emission technologies in shipping, including ferries and short sea shipping, so that the Norwegian maritime sector can further develop a leading position internationally in this area. In particular, the experience in hydrogen and electric propulsion should be emphasised.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2559	The Workers' Party has notified subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2606	Alternatively, between the Committee's position on VIII and proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for measures to be taken to ensure that all county and local ferries and fast boats use low or zero-emission technologies for new offers and for self-reliance routes. A separate grant scheme shall be established to cover the additional costs related thereto.’;» The voting boards showed that, in the case of alternative voting between the Committee's vote on the VIII vote and the proposal, 56 votes in favour and 44 votes in favour. [[Explanation of vote 16.37.16]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2620	My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2625	Since several votes were not registered, we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2638	We then vote on the Committee's position on IV-VII and IX.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2667	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Arild Grande on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for action to improve the gender balance in Norwegian films and to maintain the target of at least 40 pst for women or men in key positions.’ The Central Party, the Left and the Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2718	Cases 6 to 12 relate to the second reading of legislative decisions and to legislative decisions 6 to 12 inclusive. There are no proposals for comments, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-01.ana.ud859e2799	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
