ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e26	The representative Rasmus Hansson, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Odd Omland from 18 March onwards and until further notice. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first representative of the West Agder County, Linda Verdal, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinge under the delegation of Odd Omland. Other alternate for the West-Agder County, Trond Henry Blattmann, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Trond Henry Blattmann is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e54	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Hans Andreas Limi. – Other proposals are not available, and Hans Andreas Limi is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e59	The representative, André N. Skkelstad, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e62	On behalf of the representatives of Terje Breivik, Trine Skei Grande, Ola Elvestuen and myself, I would like to make proposals to strengthen the right to child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e67	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e79	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet Mr. Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Mr. Tine Sundtoft and Mr. Anders Anundsen for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative of Hadia Tajik.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e86	The Labour Party wants a police reform. Now the Minister of Justice has presented his proposal to the Stortinget, and we look forward to dealing with it. The reform has some sensible elements and other elements that should be resolved better. Such a deficiency is that one does not clarify how national crises should be managed and managed. Four years after July 22, three years after the Gjørv Commission report, this is a very critical deficiency. The Labour Party will also take responsibility when we are in opposition. We therefore have a concrete proposal for a solution to this problem. We want a national operating centre to come into force in the event of national crises. Such an operating centre should lead to a police district that is used to dealing with small and large crises, such as the Oslo Police District. Their task will be to support the other operating centres if a disaster occurs, for example. Oslo, Bergen and Nord-Noreg at the same time, because then there is a need for good and clear leadership and proper coordination of resources. The Görv Commission recommended this measure. The Stoltenberg II government put money on the table to settle this measure. So the preparation of the action is done. The Labour Party believes that police reform is so important that it should be anchored politically. That is also why we are making concrete proposals to improve police reform. National Operation Centres are one example, and now that the reform is finally presented to the Stortinget, there will also be more examples in that work that I hope the Government Party and the Left will cooperate on. But right now I would like to know: Will the Minister of Justice agree to improve crisis management in the event of national crises by going to a national operating centre that comes into force in the event of national crises, as proposed by the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e99	Let me first thank the representative Tajik for being constructive in his approach to the work on police reform, which is now in Stortinget. The agreement between the Government Parties and the Left provides a very good basis for good negotiations and for as broad a political anchor in the Stortinget as possible. With regard to the proposal for a National Operational Centre, it is right that the representative says that it was proposed by the Gjørv Commission, as it were, under the premise that we have a police district structure that we have today, i.e. with 27 very different police districts. In major incidents, there is no doubt that many of these police districts will not be able to deal with the type of events with the level of resources they have at the Operation Centre today, and then it was the Gjørv Commission's proposal that a national operating centre be set up that could enter if major events occurred that the police district itself was unable to handle. Now this police reform requires us to reduce the number of police districts from 27 to 12 police districts, and that means that one gets a completely different robustness in the handling capabilities of the various police districts. One of the proposals is that one should have a crew of six persons on the operating centres, as opposed to today where there is a minimum crew of two persons. In addition, the Directorate of Police is now working with a situation centre that they will have staffed 24/7 and that will become operational when they move into new premises. From this point of view, I believe that the situation was different when the Gjørv Commission made its recommendation, with old police district structure, than that situation will be when we get a new structure. I believe that we should then consider whether there is a need to have a national scalable operating centre or not. The police director thinks it's not a priority task right now. Then I believe it is important that we politically assess the possibilities that exist, in order to get the most preparedness and security out of the money we have at our disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e112	I thank you for your answer. I'm a little uncertain about what this answer means, because the Minister of Justice indicates that an addition to a changed district structure, but it's clear that something is happening in Oslo, Bergen and North Norway at the same time, it's still happening in different districts. Some of the districts he has set up are also relatively small – More and Romsdal, Agder and Aust-Finnmark. This means that when he uses the term ‘robustness’ here, it will probably be quite different in the police districts he has proposed. The second is that he refers to the situation center of the Police Directorate. Well, the Gjørv Commission was very clear that a national operating centre should listen to a police district, precisely because a person needs quantifiable training to manage it. It's those who deal with the crisis of everyday life, which is also the best way to deal with it when the disaster is actually there. They also point out that the role of the Police Directorate should be professional and administrative, and the Minister of Justice says that one should consider whether this is still needed. I'm a little surprised that someone hasn't already evaluated it. The Labour Party believes that there is still a need for it. Norway is a composite and demanding country. One needs someone who can support the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e119	The possibility of giving one centre of operations responsibility for events across several police districts is already available today. There is an opportunity that will be used if there are events that go across police districts. Now, one with a new police district structure is likely to come up with that kind of situation to a lesser extent in the future than what you have been able to do now with much smaller police districts. The reason why I say it that way, is quite simply that with the starting point we now have, we have a different police force after the police reform than we had when the Gjørv Commission gave its recommendation. Then I think it is relevant to see how this works in practice, before one concludes that the solution that was adapted to an old police structure is the solution that should also apply to a new police structure. I'm not sure. And when the police's view of this itself is as clear as it is, I believe that we need to gain more experience from how a new structure should work, before one in a way puts up to a national operating centre, in addition to the substantial strengthening of the operating centres that will take place in the context of the police reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e124	There will be four follow-up questions – first Jorod Asphjell.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e127	When I hear the Minister of Justice, it is difficult to get a clear answer to the questions that the chairperson of the Committee on Justice asks about the operation centre. When it comes to changing the number of police districts from 27 to 12, and when we see – at least in the report presented – that there will be very different districts, different sizes, and there will also be different content points, the question of whether each police district will have the opportunity to deal with it by having an operational centre. When the Gjørv Commission four years ago so clearly concluded that there was a need for a national operating centre, I wonder what it is that the Council of State – not just in terms of the number of police districts – does not choose to follow that advice. Is he sitting on knowledge that is much better than that which the Commission itself had?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e136	I believe that the answer to that is obvious, and that I have said it before, namely that the police structure of the future is a completely different police structure and division of districts from what the Gjørv Commission had as its starting point when they gave their recommendation. There are many parts of the recommendation that will continue to be valid in a new police district structure, but one should remember that a constant dependence on ensuring that one gets the most back for the money used. We now ensure a significant increase in the robustness of the operating centres around the country. This means that you get a much better handling ability on big and small events than you ever had before. Then the question of a then in addition needs a national superstructure for any events of a national nature, which makes it necessary. At the same time, the Gjørv Commission has made a number of other recommendations that are also important in order to ensure adequate preparedness in Norway, for example. the need for a new emergency centre. We need to use the means we have, in the best possible way, and then I believe that, when we implement this police reform, we need to ensure that we are able to deliver the services that we are to provide through a new police district structure. It could be that there's also a need for a national superstructure, but we haven't put that into what's in the proposition right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e145	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e148	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good response, and I look forward to the work to be done in the Grand Duchy. Some of the points are just that there are recordings that we're going to make up for through spring's work. I think Hadia Tajik has good points in terms of events that happen in several police districts at the same time. At the same time, the Minister of Justice is right that when there is a new structure, the operating centres will be much more robust and be able to deal with events independently in a completely different way. But then my questions are: what has been done by the Council of State to strengthen national coordination? Which operational centres are set, which staff is set, what types of coordination is taking place when there are national events of the nature of the event? In the past, at the time of the government change, government councils have been concerned that this should be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e158	Firstly, in all police districts, staff training has been carried out, a force has its own ability to deal with major incidents in its own police district. There are clear guidelines for the appointment of a responsible police district or an operational centre of its own if there are incidents across several police districts. In addition, the Police Directorate has now taken a completely different role than they have had in the past. It is those who are now the coordinating factor that will contribute to a resource disposal in the event of major events that are as good as possible. We had e.g. under the terrorist threat situation in the summer quite good experience with a police directorate that took the role of coordination in ensuring that the resources, management and management of a major event – which was also there, even if there was a threat situation – are best managed. It's about enabling the Police Directorate to be more than just an administrative superstructure, but also a coordinating factor and a management factor, if not into the operation, but into the overall picture. It's a role further developed by the Police Directorate, not least now, with this situation centre 24/7.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e163	Jenny Klinge – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e166	National crisis management is one thing, but the day-to-day management of police districts is also crucial. And when it comes to the organisation of police districts, there are proposals for major changes in the police reform that the government has presented. I have noticed that the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, Harald Tom Nesvik, who is from More and Romesdal, has stated that it was his greatest political saying that More and Romesdal will become a private police district instead of becoming part of a larger unit. So he thinks that the county model is the right one for his homeland. This is completely in line with what the Center Party wants, but we want a state model that applies to the whole country. Why does the Minister of Justice think that the county model is not robust enough in the rest of the country, while he is robust enough right in More and Romesdal, and a few other places?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e175	The whole purpose of this police reform is to ensure better services for the citizens of the police. That means we're going to have a closer-to-people police force, while we're going to have police districts that are robust enough to deal with major incidents, both in terms of investigation cases and in terms of preparedness management. Then we've made some criteria that we've had as a starting point, in the government parties and in the left, for the model that one finally landed on. And it is these criteria that have been the main starting point for the division of districts – in addition to taking a number of other types of considerations, such as: in relation to Schengen external border liability and to that type of relationship. If you look at the calculations of how much more it costs to go from 12 police districts to 18 police districts, which I understand is the starting point of the Central Party, you will spend a lot more money on administrative costs. A huge amount of money will be used, which initially does not benefit citizens, who are eaten in, for example. administration. It's getting pretty big rashes. That is why we believe that we have now found a model that is a good basis for the discussion the size should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e182	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e185	The Gjørv Commission was a sort of accident commission for the police after the terrorist attack on 22 July, but there may also be a need for a disaster commission for all the serious killings that happen in close relationships. There are matters where the terrorist is known, where the victim is known, and where it often goes on for many years. An example may be the case with Anna Medvedeva in Drammen who asked the police for help for several months and did not get it. We know a lot of such things, and I have to say that I fear that these matters are now going to get lost in the talk about the reform, and that they are not being prioritised high enough. How will the Minister of Justice ensure that these acts of violence are given higher priority – and preferably prevented?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e190	I would like to thank the representative for a very good question about a very serious and important topic. There is also a crucial need for the police reform that we are now facing, including. ensuring that violence in close relationships is given higher priority. It is specifically mentioned in the agreement between the Government Parties and the Left that the competence and the manner in which it is to follow up and prevent that type of crime must be significantly strengthened. It's also one of the motivations, not only to be out there with people and have a near-police, but also to solve the hardest and worst issues that the police are dealing with, among other things. violence in close relationships. And there are two perspectives that are important: one is to ensure it in police reform when police reform is implemented, but it is also important that one through the process of police reform does not miss the difficult things, that one has the necessary pressure in the process of police reform, so that one does not deliver worse on this than one already does. And then it's a significant potential for improvement. The National Attorney has set this up in his disposal letter as a priority area, and the Police Directorate follows it up with its police officers throughout the country to ensure that it gets the necessary focus. It's through the rule line we have to make sure that the police handle these matters even better than what's done today, because it's right as the representative says; there are many examples that this is too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e197	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e200	In 2008, eight-year-old Christoffer from Westfold was killed. The case was closed twice, and finally it ended with a conviction. In 2011, eight-year-old Monika was killed in Hordaland. The case was committed as suicide, and most of us know the story, where a priceless warning has led to this being investigated as killing. We said 'never more' after the Christoffer case. Yet it happens again. We're going to do what we can to make it never happen. Likewise, we know that thousands of children are subjected to violence and will be subjected to violence, and some will also be killed. Home, which should be the safest thing for a child, has become the most dangerous place. In 2006, there were 81 reports of violence against children. Last year there were almost 2,000 reviews – a huge increase that unfortunately has to say is positive, because there are dark figures coming out. The reviews come instead of that it gets time away, or that nothing happens. But studies show that 5 pst. by their children, they are subjected to serious violence during their childhood. The budgetary agreement we had between the Christian People's Party and the Left and the government parties was a positive step forward to strengthen the work to combat violence. But now we have to make sure that the great words we have as politicians become action. In 1998, the Stortinget gathered on an obliging psychiatry escalation plan to strengthen multidisciplinary work, and the Christian People's Party now believes that we should do something to combat violence against children. That is why we have a proposal to strengthen the prevention, detection, investigation and follow-up of children. Does the Council of State consider that a stepping-up plan of this kind is necessary in order to oblige the Storting to earmark for a long time in order to strengthen the work to combat violence against children?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e213	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Rupstad, for addressing an issue of extremely important importance, which in many ways is a source of shame to society. This is the worst form of crime that exists, and unfortunately, I agree with the representative, Ropstad, that the increase we have in the number of reviews is a positive sign, because one is capable of mobilising more people to report. This is a problem that the government takes on the deepest seriousness. As the representative is probably familiar with, the government has recently presented its own action plan against violence in close relationships, ‘A good childhood lasts its life’, with 43 concrete actions across all departments, which, overall, will help to increase the opportunity to discover. In particular, the health service will be of crucial importance: school health care is essential; dental care plays an important role; child protection plays an important role. These measures address each area in order to look at how a better person can arm himself in the fight against violence against children. In addition, there are a number of measures related to the work of the police and prosecution authorities. So I have to admit that in spite of that, I have sympathy for the idea that one can commit broader than one does in an action plan. The action plan is a very good instrument to commit the various departments' involvement to this serious issue, but that exposure is then fixed in the government and in the out-of-implementation departments. I believe it is a good tool and a good tool, but it may well be that a person can combine it with a kind of action plan or a stepping-up plan in a broader perspective, which also contains some elements other than this action plan. But this is a very high priority area for the government already.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e224	I would like to thank you for a very good and offensive answer. I can only warn you that this is a topic that the Christian People's Party will give priority to, and – as the Minister of Justice has already pointed out in two budgetary negotiations – that we want to give priority to. I'm glad that he doesn't close the door to a escalating plan either, because the main point is that a given committed earmarked money over a long period of time so that the level that everyone agrees that we should really be on, we get commitments that we actually reach. One of the measures that we are also proposing as part of the escalation plan is to do something about death rowing, because when children die, it is not automatically that the police can go in and investigate the matter. As a private person, you can refuse. Torleiv Rognum, a professor at the Forensics Institute, estimates that approx. five children under the age of four are killed or die each year as a result of the actions of their parents. One California study shows that of 118 children who fell from three meters, only one child died, and of 100 cases of falls from one meter, or table height, seven children died. There's something about you not believing it until you actually see it. Will the Council look at changing the site of death?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e234	I share the concern expressed by the representative Ropstad. There is a lot of number material that is very, very alarming, and as I mentioned in my previous answer, I also agree that here there is probably great darkness. So the question of site-of-death studies is a little bit more complicated than that one just needs good political intentions and good political will. Here, there are restrictions on the use of coercive measures by the police, because in this case it will be if there is not a voluntary death study, which is currently possible, but the parents can oppose it. But then there are limitations in both human rights and the Constitution that need to be reviewed in a very thorough way before one can conclude that it is actually practicable to implement. Today, a person can do so if there is cause for suspicion, but a mandatory scheme where a person goes into a home where there is no basis for suspecting that something criminal has happened will meet on some barriers that may be complicated to solve. We've had some assessments of it, and we'd like to review those pages again, but I think it's considerably more complicated than good political intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e241	It opens for four follow-up questions – first Marie Liones Breek.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e244	Statens Barnehus is an offer to children and young people who have been subjected to violence. During the first two months of 2015, 200 court hearings have been conducted in Oslo, which is an increase of 36 p.m. The children's house in Ålesund has conducted 50 court hearings, which is an increase of 100 p.m. compared with the same period last year. The increased momentum also means that resources need to be increased. The children's house does not only questioning, they also follow up the victims. How does the Council of State intend to take care of the children’s homes in the revised national budget and in the future national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e251	In spring 2014, the average waiting time for child questioning at the Statens Barnehus was 54 days. Then we set in motion a great effort in the police districts to ensure that the waiting time would go down. I think it's dramatic that little kids have to wait so long to get to the hearing. At the turn of the year, the waiting time was reduced to about 32 days, so it has been a major change, of great importance. This is probably also the reason why the statistics in the first few months show that a significantly higher number of child questionings are now being conducted at the State Children’s House, precisely because one is now working to reduce this time of treatment. Now they have accumulated resources to get this done, and we have to follow it closely so that the police districts have the necessary resources to prioritize the work of the State Children's House. Then, of course, I would not be able to say anything about the proposal in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e258	Lene Vågslid – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e261	The Christian People's Party's proposals in Stortinget to fight against violence against children are very good, and I hope they get broad support in Stortinget. Unfortunately, when it comes to fighting violence against children, too many good intentions, fine words and little action by the Minister of Justice. I also record that UNICEF and Redd Barna have requested involvement and action in this field. Last year the Labour Party took the initiative in Stortinget to make the use of children's homes compulsory, and it is with concern that I read the government's proposal for police reform, where it says: «Questions concerning the use of children's housing shall be compulsory.» This is not a question, this has Size accepted. You can also read: «The hearings shall take place within the statutory period.» It was just to be lacking, but my question is: does this rematch on the question of whether the use of children's homes should be mandatory, and does the Council intend to extend the statutory deadline for depriving children?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e280	I am not quite familiar with the description that the representative repeats for at least the second time, perhaps the third time, from this pulpit, that there should be a lack of commitment on the part of this council in this area. This is one of the things that interests me most, regardless of what the Workers' Party's representative had to understand about this. With regard to the issue of making the use of children’s homes mandatory and extended deadlines or not – or shorter deadlines, for that matter – the government has notified the Stortingen Government that we are to make a legislative proposal, which is to go through a new model of child questioning. There is a need for better legal certainty for children than today. We are to ensure that the previous government has not been able to do so, i.e. complying with the hearing periods, so that children do not have to wait as long to come to hearings as they had to during the previous government. That's why it's been important for us to do this in a real and thorough way, for example. on the basis of the proposals of the Säverud Committee, which received some criticism during the consultation round. But we're on the route, and the Storting will get these questions addressed very soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e287	Janne Sjelmo Nordås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e290	I thank the Christian People's Party for addressing a very important theme, a very serious theme. Last year, the Children’s Ombudsman presented five measures that she thought required rapid action. It was that the police had to give priority to child protection issues, that there should be violence and abuse receptions for children, good investigation of matters, effective child protection and parental guidance. These are key actions. So previous questions have been about both the issue of children's homes and the follow-up of capacity on these, and that's incredibly important of course. But my questions will then be in relation to good investigations into matters: does the Minister of Justice feel that they have good enough research into such matters? It's complex things. We have seen in some of the issues that have been revealed that there have been clearly deficiencies. How does the Minister of Justice feel that the investigation is now in the police districts related to such types of difficult questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e299	I would like to thank the representative for a good question. There is no doubt that these are complex and difficult issues to investigate, but there has recently been a strong focus both from the State Attorney and from the police director on how to improve the quality of this type of investigation. In general, we are in a situation where several reports have now shown that there are significant potential for improvement in police investigations of these kinds of cases. Work has been carried out and started on a number of measures to strengthen research in general, including in this type of case. Among other things, it is now proposed, and adopted by Stortinget on a proposal from the government, approx. 50 new law enforcement posts to help ensure better professional management of the investigation. The State Attorney has received twelve new State Attorneys' offices in the 2015 budget just to strengthen the professional follow-up to the investigation. So there's a lot of work done, but I have no problem admitting that there's still a significant potential for improvement in some of these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e306	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e310	Thank you for an important question from the Christian People's Party. But I would like to draw attention to the agreement between the government parties and the Left on a new police reform, in particular points 9.6 and 10, where it says specifically about child custody, violence in close relations and sexual abuse, child questioning is also mentioned, trafficking in human beings and children's homes. Another important point of that agreement is the management focus and organisation of robust professional environments. As several of the previous speakers have pointed out, it is about quality and capacity, but it is also a significant management responsibility to prioritise research when children are involved. So the question is how the Council of State will follow up the leadership focus, including the training of police officers who aim to have knowledge of how to acquire the capacity when it comes to research aimed at children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e317	In the agreement between the government parties and the left, the point is also addressed by that we should think completely differently about, among other things. management recruitment, respect for the type of management training other than the management training provided by the police, and a much broader professional perspective also on the management side than it has been in the past. Another point of this agreement, which will also be able to record here, will be that it is explicitly stated that a person should be able to recruit a type of competence other than police competence also in the field of investigation, for example. violence against children. We have that experience with the eco-teams, where they recruit, for example. auditors who are to contribute to the investigation, and you can imagine exactly the same type of recruitment into special and robust investigative environments which have a different background to that of the police, but which will be important for the overall investigation. Then it's important that, from top to bottom, at all stages, the focus is on what tasks are important to the police, that a person is able to prioritise, and it is absolutely crucial now in the organisation of a new police that a person also has a leadership focus in this area to ensure that this will not continue to be a type of crime where the numbers of darkness are too high.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e326	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e329	I am pleased that the Minister of Justice acknowledges the need to do much more in this area to take children seriously and protect them. The Children's Ombudsman has made six recommendations to us, and several of them are important. Several have discussed this with the management and prioritisation of this work, i.e. that the status of dealing with violence against children and other acts of violence has to be lifted. The second is that children’s homes are incredibly important – SV was involved in taking the initiative for them when it was started. But figures from the children's home in Oslo show that out of 700 children who were questioned at the children's houses, only 100 were given medical examination, which they are entitled to. And that's very important, if we're to be able to reveal different types of abuse and care failure to children. How will the Minister ensure that the children receive the medical examinations they require?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e340	This is actually not my constitutional responsibility, it's the Minister of Health, but we're working very closely on it. I had a meeting with the Health Minister just a few days ago, where we discussed, among other things. this question. For what is the challenge and which will also be a challenge in the future, there is a need to have sufficient access to personnel with the expertise needed to ensure medical examinations. Then there is a difference between those who are exposed to something that needs medical examination, and those who are witnesses, who do not even need medical follow-up or examination at the children's home. I don't know how it divides into the numbers that the representative picks up. But the Minister of Health has informed me that he has given a mission to the Directorate of Health to ensure that the necessary competence is in place to ensure that those who need medical follow-up and studies at the State Children's Hospital will receive it, both now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e347	Let's move on to the next main question. I think the Council of State may stand still.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e350	It's to the Minister of Justice again, yes, so he doesn't have to go that far! In the summer of 2013, Stortinget decided that the police and the police security service were given extended powers to use fake base stations to monitor or stop mobile traffic in Norway. From the Stortinget's side, it was an intention that the police and the PST should notify the supervisory authorities every time they set up base stations, among others. to prevent adverse consequences of mobile surveillance. The police were given the opportunity to use controversial tools, because one had confidence that this was going to be handled in a good way. However, I note that the PST manager has stated to the media that the obligation to notify the media is contrary to the obligations of the media and that they do not see any reason to inform about the use of drugs. Such statements can be understood as PST disregarding Storting's intentions. This is a very serious matter. Monitoring of human beings is one of the most interventional measures that can be put into action, and in many areas approval from the Court of Justice is necessary. Now, when we get to know that the PST almost creates its own space on the side of the law, it's also demanding to be lawmakers. In the evening post on 10 March this year we could see that the Minister of Justice was asked the following questions: ‘Do you share the PST’s understanding that they have no need to notify?’ Governments responded as follows: ‘You almost have to include PST.’ The answer is missing sense. I therefore give the Minister of Justice the opportunity to reply to the Storting here and now, and make sense in the answer: does the Council of State share the view of the PST that they do not need to inform about this form of drug use?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e373	The background to my statement was that the question was something like if the PST had the opportunity to fail to warn, and that it was the basis for it, and I replied that you must almost challenge the PST on, which says they have it. This is a complicated legal question. It's a lot more complicated than what you can get in the media. It is not only the PST who have thought that such a warning would be contrary to the strict rules of the Criminal Procedure Act on professional secrecy when a person uses that kind of hidden method, even the Riksadvokat has meant the same thing. Therefore, the PST has taken an initiative towards the Ministry in order to determine whether to follow up the warning obligation of the economist law or whether to deal with the disciplines of the criminal procedural law and the police law. After we received that enquiry, we have carried out a thorough assessment by the Legal Service, which believes that it is legally sound to claim that the obligation of professional secrecy prevails before the Economy Act, but that they believe that in such cases the Economy Act will go ahead of the taushet provisions. That's what's going to be the basis for the answer that we're now going to give to the PST, that's that they have to find alert procedures that satisfy the requirements of the echom law. In addition, I believe that this is the basis for contributing to a law-enforcement process, because there is therefore a clear contradiction between what is stated in the Criminal Procedures Act and the Police Act and what is stated in the Ecoom Act. But, as I said, after the Law Department's assessment, we assume that the echom law will take precedence over the Criminal Procedures Act and the Police Act in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e384	I thank you for your answer. There's no doubt that this is complicated, and I guess we all understand that. At the same time, it is unlikely that we should be careful that PST does not develop a practice that is contrary to the intent of Storting, and that we should be careful that we have ways to ensure this – that it does not evolve within the PST to handle such things that are not in line with privacy, simply because it is about it. So I want to hear a little bit more from the Council of State about how he will actually ensure that this does not happen in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e391	I feel a certain need to say that when PST uses these methods, it's after judicial control. In addition, there is a separate control committee for the use of communication control. So it's definitely under control, I would almost say, the business that PST has in this area. So it's also the Storting that has passed the Criminal Procedures Act and the Police Act, as well as having adopted the echom law, and that's why this becomes a complicated affair. This was followed up from my side. The Ministry clarifies our view of the law in front of us. So I know that the PST is in dialogue with the NKOM to find alert procedures to meet the NKOM's need for warning under the echom law. So this is already under follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e400	There will be follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e404	The council seems to give the impression that there is some kind of ecomatism, but I can't see that it is. The Ministry of Justice confirmed when the law was dealt with, that it did not conflict with the obligation of professional secrecy to have a warning obligation, and the obligation to provide a warning, as set out in Section 6-2, is unconditional – it applies in all cases and with unjustified residence. Nevertheless, it seems that the PST believes that they can relate to the legal text as they wanted the legal text, but the legal text was not as the PST wanted. It is clear that then the PST must also relate to the legal text that is, and notify the communication authority each time, as stated in the law. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice to make it clear that he believes that the PST is also obliged to comply with all the laws and regulations of the Stortinget decide, searing if the seas in the hearing opinion have meant otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e411	There's a clarification there's no need: Of course, the PST should follow all the laws that the Storting adopts, like all of us. But I think it is important to bring with me what I said in my previous answer, namely that there is a clear contradiction between several laws that the Stortinget has passed, and it is clear that the Riksadvokat has also believed that the rules of criminal procedure will go ahead of the rules of the economist law. Then the Ministry of Justice and Defence disagree, and we will communicate that to the PST in a very clear way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e416	Jorod Asphjell – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e419	The center party addresses an important question here. On a case-by-case basis, we see that instead of exercising leadership, the Minister of Justice is pushing the responsibility downwards. I don't know if this also has anything to do with the fact that there's a lot to do with police reform, with culture and leadership. We see it in things like this. long-term asylum children, where he pointed downwards at the UDI, we see it in the police reform, where he points to the POD and police districts, and we see it in investigation, where he points downwards at the Riksadvokat and POD. These are just a few examples. My question should not be so complicated and difficult; it should be simple, so that the Council of State can answer it. Is it the Council of State that is running the police force in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e428	This I think was an unusually strange question. So we've appointed a police director to run the Norwegian police force. The Council of State is not a police director, just as the Council of State would be a national lawyer or director of the UDI. I think it's necessary to have a basic understanding of how central government works, before accusing a government council of not taking management and action. If you go a little bit through what is the reality of the issues the representative is now facing, I don't think there's a lack of leadership from the Council of State that's the challenge. This is a very clear, clear and expectant state council, which has the overall responsibility not only for the police action, but also for a number of other agencies. And I think it's important for a Council of State to recognise the responsibility of the Council of State and the responsibilities of the Directorates. If you don't manage, you should be careful about how you deal with politics. I believe the questioner now showed a clear lack of understanding of how central government works.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e437	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e440	I think a lot of us know the system, and I also think the Council of State knows that the decisions taken in the Storting are also applicable to the bureaucracy below. I want to ask a slightly more fundamental question about what we have now been revealed. The evening post revealed that a number of base stations were located around this area. That means they're monitoring the Storting, and that means they're monitoring the Akersgat. These are fundamental democratic institutions, and there are fundamental institutions in terms of transparency, but also source protection for our journalists, who are going to do their job of monitoring Norwegian democracy. I wonder if the Council of State has any fundamental considerations as to whether Norwegian surveillance should place things so closely as to enable us to address some of the issues that we encountered when the Lund Commission was in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e449	First of all, I just want to say that the revelations presented by the Evening Post are under investigation. That investigation I suppose will take another moment, but it will soon be completed, before in a way you can guess what has been the case. Then I'm a little uncertain about placing surveillance equipment. The principle principle is that we should ensure our democratic institutions against surveillance. It is a clear authority responsibility to ensure that the Storting is not subject to surveillance. This is also something that PST has affected in its threat assessments – we are exposed to intelligence activities, both from other countries and from other stakeholders, who may be interested in knowing what Norwegian decision-makers are talking about on the phone or communicating digitally. Therefore, the PST has also been concerned that they should be clearly informed about this. It is essential that society's monitoring is within the framework of legal certainty. Having a monitoring system that floats out, I think it's unacceptable. [[The President clubs.]] The size must be clearly premised for the monitoring to be carried out by the authorities. It is being followed up today in the context of judicial control and democratic control – as far as possible. I'm sorry I went a little beyond speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e460	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e463	I thought I'd give the Minister of Justice a rest. The transport sector accounts for about 26 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. The entire 60 pst. this is from the passenger transport. Passenger cars account for two thirds of greenhouse gas emissions for domestic journeys. This means that it is very important and effective to facilitate zero- and low-emission vehicles as well as to make it easier to travel by public transport, bicycles and corridors. When BMW is now trying to convince the authorities in Thailand that the electric car is the solution to the air problems in Bangkok and other major cities, the Norwegian electric car policy is being followed by an example. It is a misguided policy that has produced results, a policy that was launched by the Minister for Transport of the Left, Torild Skogsholm, and which has joined and strengthened a total increase. Every third electric car sold in Europe is sold in Norway. Almost 20 pst. of all new cars sold in Norway so far in 2015 are electric cars. In the past, the Minister for Transport has stated on a number of occasions that it is not appropriate to change the positive policy towards electric cars before the first major elections in 2017. Reducing vehicle emissions is not enough; it must also be run less. We can do this with smart urban planning, a good collective offer and better facilities for bicycles and bikes. Urban environmental agreements between the country and the largest cities shall ensure this. Nevertheless, – I am aware – no urban environmental agreements have been concluded so far. Thus, no binding agreements have been put in place between state, county and municipality with a common plan of action to create the cities of the future. My question to the Minister for Transport is twofold: Does the Council of State agree with its previous promises that the benefits for electric cars will be continued until 2017? What progress does the Council of State see that it needs to be on the urban environment packages in order to have the desired impact on the climate and the urban environment in order to reach the overall climate commitments agreed on?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e483	Work on improving the urban environment is very important, and there are the four parties that now make up the majority, working very well both on the budget and on many other measures. In climate policy, a common issue has been promoted which means that there is now a broad consensus on where to go and what means to use. That's very good. Then there are many measures that are important to make cities better to live in. It's about better spatial planning, it's about more collective provision. What is important is that it should be attractive for people to choose collectively, and that they should choose it for themselves, not an approach in which to whip people out of the car without having an alternative to go to, but on the contrary make it so attractive to choose collective means of travel – bus, tram, train and T-Bahn – that people themselves want it. Then there's a lot of grip that the new majority has done. We're saying we're going to have 50-50 for large public infrastructure investments in the four largest cities, that is, the state will take 50 pst. of the cost. It was something that the previous government was not willing to do, but that today's government and today's majority have adopted. There is much more to bet on trains. In December the routes were changed, which means that only at Oslo S there are now 100 more trains a day than what it was before December 2014. The punctuality of the railway was 95 pst. in the last weeks of February. All of this makes public transport appear more attractive. In addition, much is done for multiplication and cycling. As far as the car side is concerned, it is important that the drivers get a good alternative, so that one sees that the day is connected when one travels collectively. Of course, for those who have to drive a car, it is an advantage if we are able to get them to choose low-emission or zero-emission cars, such as electric cars and hybrid cars. There's an advantage to today's charging system. It is important when we are now negotiating what will happen after the 50 000 zero-emission car requirements of the climate agreement have been met, that further sales of zero-emission and low-emission cars will also be facilitated there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e495	I would like to thank you for the answer, and I would like to stress that the Left has a clear expectation that it will be signed, as soon as possible and in line with the objective of strengthening the climate agreement, urban environmental agreements that oblige municipalities, county councils and not least the state to make the necessary investments. Then I hear that the Council of State is positive in favour of the still misleading policy on the electric car side, but is not fully in line. I expect that there is a broad consensus in this house about the benefits of driving and owning an electric car, that it will continue until at least 2017, and as far as I know, it is only part of the Progress Party's politicians who have raised doubts about this. There is also a broad consensus in the people that this must continue. Opinion polls published yesterday show that three out of four questions want one to keep the electric car benefits, and the NAF, which is an organization that the Progress Party often pushes to its chest, has also been crystal clear on this. The Minister of Transport now has the opportunity to put this debate to death once and for all by stating that the electric car benefits will continue until at least 2017. Will the Council of State take the opportunity to conclude that the misleading policy will continue until the elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e502	I would like to have more than 1 and 2 minutes to talk about this, because this is very important. Let me continue where I left off: the urban environment agreements, which one addressed in the first question, are also very important. There's dialogue and negotiations going on with the cities, one's taking them on-the-go. It is then important to stress that today you have reward schemes running, and the urban environment agreements will replace them, so it is not that there are no instruments in use. It's about getting good, new and wider agreements in place, and that's what urban environmental agreements are supposed to be. The government has also said that we want development agreements, in the sense that we need to be involved and commit the development of urban areas when we invest in public transport, so that more people live and work close to the collective hub. It is important for one to choose collective means of travel. As far as electric car policy is concerned, the climate agreement is very clear. The benefits now are going to last until there are 50,000 cars on the roads. That's what we're getting really close to. It will be a mistake for me now to advance what the negotiations between the parties on Stortinget will end up in. It's actually the Stortinge that decides this, and not a single Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e509	There will be follow-up questions – first Ola Elvesuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e512	My supplementary question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. As the representative Abid Q. Raja was inside, is 26 pst. of the emissions in Norway from the transport sector, and there are many instruments that need to be implemented in several areas in order to achieve the objectives that we have jointly set, that we should reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. towards 2030. A large part of this will have to be taken into account in the transport sector – as much lies in what is part of the EU quota system – more than 50 pst. The Minister for Climate and Environment has the overall responsibility for climate policy, and then my question is: how will the Minister for Climate Change ensure that the use of the instrument that we are going to have in all areas is proportionate to the objective we have set ourselves of 40 p.m. reduction towards 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e519	Now I think the Minister for Transport had a good review of the tools we have. Firstly, it is a matter of planning cities and towns in such a way that we eliminate the need for transport. We are now doing this through the urban environment agreements and, in addition, development agreements, where we negotiate with the cities about how they operate their land and transport planning. Perhaps the most important thing we can do is eliminate the need for transport. When transport is needed, it is important that we have good public transport. There, this government, also strongly supported by the cooperation parties, the Left and Christian People's Party, has contributed to a significant effort. And then we now have a joint review of the car charges to preserve the principle that it is worth choosing environmentally friendly. I believe that this government has now used many tools, and we must do that too, because transport is responsible for one of the major emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e524	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e527	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. Norwegian electric car policy, as Abid Q. Raja said, has been an unconditional success. The whole reason why we have the discussions we've had now is that politics works so well. What we wanted is what has been achieved, that many more people choose to buy environmentally friendly cars. It is really amazing that small Norway has managed to become one of the world’s largest markets, which is used as an example worldwide of how it is possible to change car policy. Although we have now put in place a large market, there is still a disappearing small proportion that drives an electric car, and we still need active policies to electrify larger parts of our car park. Everyone understands that the benefits cannot last forever, but at least there is still a need for an active policy to get more people to choose more environmentally friendly cars. I realized that Abid Q. Raja wanted to challenge the Minister to clarify what the Minister's view is, and instead he actually got a statement about what the Storting has already adopted. We are aware of that. What we're asking is, what does the minister himself mean? Will the Minister himself facilitate a policy that ensures predictability until 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e536	I think everyone knows that the Progress Party – voters and politicians – is very happy with low and non-existent car charges, no one should be in any doubt about it. So at the same time, it's not like the Biggest has decided everything that's going on right now. This is because we have a new majority in the Grand Duchy, which has adopted something other than what was in the national transport plan from the previous government. The investment we now get in urban environmental agreements with the state taking 50 pst. of the investment costs, is what happens because you have a new majority. So there's something that the Workers' Party didn't fight out, but that the government of today has come up with. The sharp increase in the maintenance of both road and rail, which makes the bus easier to get around, and that the railway can be on the route, as we now see the result of, is because one has a new majority, which does much more than what was in the national transport plan. And so it was the new majority that made hybrid cars come out better for tax purposes, and thus get better market conditions than what's been on the ground for the time being. So I'm very proud of what we've done. So we're also going to make sure it's attractive to choose an electric car in the future, but it's the Storting that decides exactly how.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e541	Hans Fredrik Gruvan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e544	Several have already indicated that the framework conditions set by Norway for the development of the electric car market have been a success, and we are reaching the target of 50,000 cars in these days. However, further expansion of charging stations is a prerequisite for the future success of electric car policy. That is why this has also been prioritised in the 2015 budget agreement. For an electric car to remain attractive, good access to charging current is important. That is why the allocation to Enova in this area was also strengthened in the year's budget. Can the Council of State promise that, in the future, one from the government will continue to make an offensive contribution to the development of new charging stations, which can contribute to a more accessible and completely necessary infrastructure for electric drivers?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e549	It has become an additional investment in charging stations under today's majority. It's important. At the same time, it is important that we get the market to develop this ourselves, so that you get commercial forces and don't go to the state every time you have to have an extra charging station. That is why we have already had a lot of contact with the Elbil Association, with the various car manufacturers, with different other actors, such as KIWI, who have agreed with one of the major car manufacturers to offer charging options outside their grocery stores. It's when we get that part to work, that you really get a wide extension of the charging system for cars. In addition, we know that there is a lot of progress in battery technology. Tesla has announced that these days they have a new press conference to bring even more news that will remove the range anxiety of electric motorists. It is the combination of State instruments and the market and the manufacturers of electric cars that are the basis for success in this field. We're going to be involved and contribute to this as best we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e555	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e558	My question goes to the Council of State Sundtoft. In Norway, about 1,500 people die every year of air pollution. In Oslo, the death toll rises on days of high pollution. A month ago, the municipality of Oslo warned against taking small children out in some areas of the city. The Groruddalen, where I live, is bad luck. In Bergen the situation is also bad. Parents go with lumps in their stomachs because children don't stop coughing in the toxic winter air. We know that car traffic is the main cause of the problem. Now new figures from the State Road Administration show that road traffic is increasing both in Oslo and Akershus in 2014, despite the goals of zero growth. Last night, the Right and the Progress Party voted against a series of proposals in Stortinget to improve air quality. A vote against the proposal for a new instrument to limit the use of cars on national roads when air pollution is high. One voted against environmentally differentiated tolls to reduce air pollution, against increased fossil fuel taxes, against measures to establish more collective fields in acute situations — and many more proposals. My question is: what is the Minister for Climate and Environment's plan to improve the situation, all the time when the government parties vote against proposals on proposals to improve air quality? And when can those who are struggling with asthma and disease expect to suffer?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e571	Thank you for asking an important question. As the representative said, we had a good round on this in Stortinget yesterday. Fortunately, air quality has improved considerably in the last ten years, yet several Norwegian cities have challenges with particulate matter and NO2. The government will therefore provide several instruments to municipalities – it is the municipalities that are responsible for the local air. The Ministry of Transport will start legal work to establish low-emission zones in municipalities that want it. Further efforts are being made to facilitate environmental differentiation through the AutoPASS system. The Ministry of Transport will also assess costs and possible solutions with other departments concerned. The government has also said that we are assessing the possibilities for free public transport on days of high air pollution. There is a desire to impose a diesel ban on highways in Oslo now. We have said that we do not want to, but we are working on looking at a differentiated ban, so that it is primarily directed at passenger cars outside of business. We have said that we will return to Stortinget with several tools. This is a challenge that has been known for many years. Now this government has a good cooperation with municipalities on it. I have noticed that the municipalities want more tools – several of them we are investigating – but the municipalities also have some tools that they can already use to improve air quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e583	Thanks for the answer. Yesterday the Minister could tell that the current limit values for air pollution unit can only be reached within a decade. This comes a few days after we became acquainted with a new Spanish research study done at 39 schools in Barcelona. This shows the relationship between air quality and cognitive development in children. One fears that air pollution is damaging the human brain and cutting down on learning opportunities. Does the Council of State fear that air pollution in our big cities is happening to our young people, or is the government's policy sufficient to make parents feel safe that the situation in Oslo is not as it is in Barcelona?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e592	The challenge we face in Norway of air quality, we share with many other cities in Europe. Norway is one of 17 countries that are committed to ESA for failure to maintain the Air Quality Directive. The debate we are now having on air quality also illustrates that when we talk about climate society, it is also a better society. We need to change the policy, so that we can bring down the pollution from the cars, both because of the challenge of air and because of climate. The most important thing we do is plan cities in such a way that we reduce transport needs. Then we have to facilitate that we can go more, bike more, and more public transport. And then, through car policy, we have to help the cars that are driving pollute as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e597	There will be follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e600	If 1,500 had died in traffic, no one would have accepted it, but it's actually the traffic these people die of. In Oslo, car traffic has to be reduced by 20 pst. to ensure that the air is not fatal. The City Council candidate in Oslo for the Workers' Party, Raymond Johansen, played out that the E18 had to be reduced and renegotiated because the expansion increases emissions – that is, it makes it worse. City Councillor Røsland from the Right replied that it was also the City Council’s opinion – a little surprising, but good. Then the question to the government is whether you realize that you actually have to stop the measures that increase emissions. Will the government advise the research on 20 pst. reduction in road traffic to the ground? And: Does the government agree with the City Council in Oslo that the E18 must be renegotiated and reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e605	I am concerned that the infrastructure being built meets the challenges of the future with the transition to the low-carbon society and the reduction of noise and emissions of local air pollution. Here Stortinget has made clear demands that the growth of passenger transport in metropolitan areas should be taken with public transport, corridors and bicycles. It also means that if this project generates growth in car traffic, other measures need to be put in place to slow down car traffic, so that, in sum, growth in the Oslo area does not occur. It has even been said by the State Road Administration that strong instruments are needed to slow down the growth of car traffic. Some of what is built west of Oslo is a high-standard collective field and a continuous cycle path. So we have to plan big cities in such a way that we can take traffic growth through corridors, bicycles and public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e610	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e613	There is undoubtedly an important question about air quality, especially linked to the big cities. I agree with the Council of State and her considerations that planning and land use and urban development are important, but it takes some time, and while we are waiting for spatial planning to improve, and that one should get a path and a bike path and get public transport better, one must therefore take other measures. And a part of yesterday's debate in Stortinget was: What means do we want – to say – to be allowed to play teams with better air quality? And then I ask the Council of State the following question: Yesterday, the majority of the population, against the will of the government parties, voted in favour of a number of proposals that will allow the municipalities to have more instruments now. Does the Council of State think it was wrong for the Storting to make that decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e620	What the Stortinget decided yesterday was to ask the government to find out more tools. Now, in yesterday's debate, I gave a statement on what we have already started working on. We have started legal work to establish low-carbon zones, we are working to facilitate environmental differentiation through the AutoPASS system, we are looking at the possibility of a diesel ban – but we want a differentiation, so that this can also be implemented in practice. What I think is good is that there's a lot of commitment in the Storting to do what we can to get better air in the big cities. There is no new issue, this issue has been going on for many years, but now we are doing a good job with the municipalities on it. The municipalities are asking for more instruments. We've given them some tools, and now we're investigating even more, and that's what it takes to overcome this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e628	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e631	The majority not only decided that the government should investigate new instruments; the Storting decided that municipalities should be able to implement measures to reduce car use in large cities during periods of winter when there is poor air, and this could be a number of measures – it could also apply to diesel cars, as is the case with the Right and Advance Party. I think it is necessary for the Council of State here from the pulpit to confirm the decision actually taken by the Stortinget, and that it will be followed up, whether the Right and the Advance Party may disagree a little. It is clear that car use in Oslo needs to be reduced over time. It is likely that a full transition to a zero-emission vehicle in Oslo will have to take place in the years to come, and it also means, in the opinion of the Centre Party, that one continues to bet on electric cars and on a zero-emission vehicle in the way we have done in recent years. In what way will the Council of State work to ensure that the electricity car benefits are not destroyed and that the electricity car market is thus able to collapse?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e638	Now it is well-known nationally, but now also well-known internationally, what success the Norwegian electric car policy is. I myself opened a seminar in Brussels 14 days ago and then told about how this policy has worked in Norway. When we presented our 2030 targets, we said that transport is one of the areas where we really need to reduce emissions. So – point one – we have to reduce car traffic, and – point two – the cars that have to be on the road must release at least possible. That is precisely why we now have a review of the vehicle charges, with the principle that it is worth choosing environmentally friendly. Here, the Storting and the Government have gone ahead with a policy that works, and we need to continue to do so if we are to succeed in achieving the targets of reducing emissions in transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e643	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e646	The Minister for Climate and Environment can only stand still. As we know, several times in Stortinget, we have asked questions about climate policy. Every time, the Council of State has replied that she believes that the government conducts an ambitious climate policy, that the climate agreement is firm, and that she believes that the government has strengthened the climate agreement. The opinions of the Council of State are so well known to the Stortinget. I believe, however, that the Stortinget has a certain expectation of when a key issue relating to climate issues, that a broader analysis from the Council of State will be given: What will Norway's role be? What are we going to commit ourselves to as a country? And what steps must be taken to achieve the objectives that the Storting is discussing and possibly setting? I think everyone agrees that this requires action and political implementation and – not least – clarity. We have recorded that this is demanding even in discussions between central right-wing politicians. When the government promoted the growth announcement of indicative targets for 2030, the State Council of Helgesen, on the one hand, said that Norway can achieve the objectives of action in Poland. On the other hand, astrup’s representative said this is a wrong understanding of the EU’s climate policy. It could be interesting to know who's right after the state council's opinion. And what approach will the Council of State itself choose when Norway will achieve its emission reduction targets by 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e657	There have been many climate debates in Stortinget – it's a big commitment, and it's very good. Now the government has proposed where we're going to put our ambitions forward towards 2030. We have said that we want Norway to be at the same level as the European Union. That means to cut 40 pst. by 2030, starting in 1990. It is then to be distributed between the quota sector, where we are already well integrated into the EU quota system – that is approximately. Half of the emissions – and the other half, which are in the non-quota sector, where we are now negotiating with the EU on where the Norwegian level is going to be. It is quite clear – we know that the EU has said 30 pst. in the non-quota sector. The EU now has a process of distributing this between its 28 countries. When you're going to take GDP into account and adjust for cost efficiency, I'm probably pretty clear that we're going to be closer to 40 pst. than 0 pst. The government has also outlined five areas where we can contribute to national cuts, but also what through Norwegian technology development we can contribute to by international cuts. That's exactly what's so crucial in climate policy, that we get a good mix of what we're going to do nationally. We have not entered into cooperation with the EU to avoid Norwegian cuts, but we can work together to reduce the cuts, because the climate challenges are global.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e666	I share the opinion of the Council of State that once the negotiations have been completed with the EU, probably Norway's commitments will be closer to 40 p.m. than at least 0 pst. We can agree on that. That means predictability and clarity and not least quick action are really very important. Because I think we can all recognise that setting goals is easy, much more complicated to put into practice good actions that build up below and actually work according to the objectives set. That is why, when we deal with the climate target communication, we are already going to challenge and point to some very clear measures that are concrete in their approach to the objectives. It might have been interesting to hear if perhaps the government parties will support it, but I will not challenge it since the matter is under consideration. But can the Council of State now indicate how the government intends to meet any obligations on Norway in the non-quota sector that will operate directly nationally? What concrete action does the Council of State now see as recommending it for the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e671	We've outlined five areas that we're going to work on. The first is one of what the size has already discussed, reduced emissions in the transport sector. This is perhaps where we need to do the most nationally, both by planning to reduce transport needs and by transferring traffic from car traffic to public transport. We need to invest more in public transport and rail, and we need to extend the policy we have, so that when one first drives a car, a car that reduces emissions as much as possible. Then we also have more areas within the industry. And construction is something that we also have to do more in Norway. Transport and construction are where we need to do more in Norway, and the second is what we can do in Norway that also contributes to cutting internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e678	There will be follow-up questions – Åsmund Aukrust.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e681	It's going to be an exciting debate we're going to have in Stortingen next Tuesday, where we're going to set our own goals. But much more important than that is the discussion we're going to have over the next year about how we're going to achieve these goals, because the goals themselves get us nowhere. I think the biggest mistake we're making when we're discussing the goals is to think that this is a very long time, that 2030 and 2050 is something that's far ahead. Because the society we're going to live in in 2030 and 2050 is being built today: the houses we're going to live in, the jobs we're going to have, and the way we travel – that foundation is being laid today. Therefore, the Communication on 2030 and 2050 is actually about 2015, 2016 and 2017. One of the things we know at least is that if we're going to be a zero-emission society in 2050, we can't allow large new dots that are going to be there then. This does not allow our own emissions budgets. My question to the Council of State is whether she agrees with that, and if so, whether she is willing to accept the consequences and say no to new large points in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e688	I fully agree with the representative that the choices we are making now have implications for the ability to reach the low-carbon society by 2050. We have discussed many times the need to transform society as a whole – how we plan our society, how we plan for less transport, how we need to transform Norwegian industry to take care of its low-carbon and clean production technologies through a shift with less oil dependence. That's why we have strengthened the Climate and Energy Fund and given Enova several tools, so that Hydro Karmøy will now implement the plans for the world's most energy-efficient aluminium production. This means that we can get higher emissions in Norway through it. But that's why it's important how we now cooperate with the EU, so that the emissions within the bubble are limited.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e694	We move on to the next main question, from the representative Rasmus Hansson.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e697	Then I guess I can just stay standing!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e702	I think the Council of State can stay standing, yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e705	The Council of State guessed correctly. The question is to the State Council Sundtoft. Nature reserves are the most stringent form of nature conservation in Norway, and therefore nature reserves include the most important natural values that are given the most stringent protection against tampering. Nevertheless, Minister of Environment Solhjell granted a derogation for the construction of a new power line through the Sørdalen nature reserve, contrary to the trasé recommendations that had originally come from energy management and environmental management. Earlier this month, the Borgarting Law stated that this exemption was a clear violation of the Nature Diversity Act, but in the meantime our current climate and environmental minister, Sundtoft, had ordered a change of the protection regulations for this reserve, so that the regulation now allows the completely absurd combination of berry picking, fishing, etc. and the construction and operation of a new power line. The Council of State has therefore actively ensured that in practice, exactly the intervention that the law of the law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Does not the Council of State now have a very delicate taste in her mouth in terms of how she manages her responsibilities, both to preserve some of the most important things we have in Norwegian nature, and to manage the natural diversity law?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e714	The decision on the trasé elections in the south of the valley was taken by the previous government, and today's government has founded it. A reversal of the decision of the previous government and a subsequent new round on the trasé choice would have delayed the process and led to a further delay in the power supply to the north-west and central Norway. It is important that we protect a representative sample of Norwegian nature, but in some situations the protection of other overriding interests must be safeguarded. The strenuous force situation in Central Norway is well known, and I think everyone, or at least most, agrees that this should be remedied as quickly as possible. It was the assessments made by this government that followed up what the previous government had taken a decision on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e719	So I remember that it was recommended a different trajectory for this power line from, among other things. the energy management itself, which did not pass through this nature reserve. So then we have the situation that we were aware that there was a legal case in which one risked, with great probability that the exemption decision became known unlawfully. The question is then: Why did the Council of State not wait until she was given the legal clearance of whether this situation was illegal, until she carried out a regulatory change that was thus forced by the decision that we now know was illegal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e724	The Ministry of the Environment concluded in the 2013 Decision that a derogation from the Protection Regulation was necessary to ensure a rapid security of power supply to Middle Norway. I can now only record that the law of law has assessed the risk of a delay for the power line different from what the department did in its decision. Here we have followed the decision of the previous government, and we have been concerned about delaying the important power supply to North-West and Middle-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e729	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e741	There will be one change in the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic overview made available to the representatives in that context. The proposed amendment to today’s Question Time is proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 4, from Kari Henriksen's representative to the Minister for Culture, has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment, who is directly responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e754	‘On 9 February, the Evening Post reported on SwissLeaks, where hidden assets in the HSBC central bank have been revealed. According to the newspapers, in 2006 and 2007, there were 111 clients associated with Norway, covering a total of 2.8 billion. krones. This is only a small part of Norwegian wealth hidden abroad. Does the Government have an estimate of the amount of Norwegian membership hidden abroad, and what does the Government do to combat such activities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e766	Hidden assets abroad and so-called tax havens are a global challenge. It is difficult to accurately estimate the amount of Norwegian association hidden abroad. In 2010, however, the Tax Directorate proposed in an internal study that the Nordics hid at least 200 billion dollars. kr in deposits abroad. In addition, there are properties, shares and financial instruments. These estimates are, of course, uncertain. The government is concerned that the assets that are subject to taxation are actually properly taxed. The main means of detecting hidden funds abroad is cooperation on information exchange. The Ministry of Finance has therefore worked actively over time to conclude a number of international agreements on the sharing of tax information in order to ensure proper taxation. Today, Norway has a network of about 90 tax agreements. Through the Nordic tax havens project, we have also concluded 44 separate information exchange agreements, the TIEA, with so-called tax havens. In addition, last year I signed a historic agreement between several countries on automatic exchange of tax information. This agreement will provide the tax receipts with information about the Nordic foreign deposits, reserves, shares, dividends and interest. The first countries will exchange this information in 2017, but as early as this year, an agreement with the United States will automatically provide the tax haven with information about the Nordics with accounts in the United States. In total, these agreements provide for faster and better access to tax information. Greater transparency about tax information is important to reveal hidden assets, but it also has a significant preventative effect. This also shows the tax haven's amnesty system. Since 2007, nearly 1,100 people have reported 43 billion. kr in wealth and nearly 2 billion. kr in income for tax purposes. It can also be mentioned that the Tax Act is working to improve its communication with the taxpayer. In cooperation with the Norwegian School of Economics, the Tax Administration has found that letters of information to taxpayers providing information on how income and wealth are to be reported abroad contribute positively. Both the number of taxpayers reporting tax relationships abroad and the amount reported are increasing. It's positive. Better communication provides better enforcement without necessarily having to carry out extensive back checks. Taxation is a major interference in ownership. It is therefore also essential that the legal certainty of taxpayers is properly ensured. A good tax system must have the trust of taxpayers. That's the government's concern. Nor are we going to sub-communicate the importance of making people feel they're getting enough for the tax they're paying. Therefore, we have to show the taxpayers respect by using their tax money as properly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e783	I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for a very good answer. I am very pleased with the initiatives taken by both the current government and the previous government to combat illegal tax evasion. The amount of money placed illegally abroad, which should have been taxed in Norway, has gradually reached a level that could be said to threaten our well-being in the long term. The welfare state of Norway is undermined when tax evasion is avoided, but in addition, the bill is pushed over to people most and other taxpayers. In addition, there are a number of companies that have a business model designed to avoid as much taxation as possible by invoicing. Will the government take any own measures to prevent multinational companies from moving out of Norway in an organized way profits that should have been taxed in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e792	First to the question of scope: I want to stress that it is uncertain. Here's the number of darkness, it's hard to know how large the scale is, but it's clearly a challenge that several countries are taking seriously. That's exactly why we have succeeded in getting a broad international consensus on the exchange of information about this kind of situation. More and more countries join, precisely because we live in a global and very open economy where the type of information exchange is good for the tax base of each country. So, of course, as I said in my first answer, we have to be able to balance this against legal certainty issues, against reasonableness considerations. It is important for everyone to have confidence in the means and measures taken by the authorities. Now we are going through major elements of a potentially new tax reform. What we do in that context, we almost have to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e799	‘For the welfare state’ and the Trade Union made a thorough effort about four years ago, through the practices of Norwegian commercial welfare providers. They believe that Norwegian money that should have been spent on welfare has been sent to tax havens abroad. It is a problem that will increase to an extent by opening up more commercial providers of welfare services, such as kindergarten, child protection, asylum reception, nursing homes, etc. Is the Minister of Finance aware of whether large commercial companies that provide welfare services today are using such a practice? And will the Minister of Finance take the initiative to identify any scope of such practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e804	It's not a problem I have enough knowledge about to be able to give a good answer to the representative Serigstad Valen. But what I want to say is that we're busy with several things. One is international cooperation to improve information to combat tax evasion. The second thing that I think we need to have full pressure on is our domestic relationships with black work, work-life crime, which is also a major problem, where the darkness figures are also significant. Here the government has launched a wide range of measures, including efforts to publicise the chemical industry. I hope there is a proposal in which SV is fully involved, because the main purpose of implementing this approach is to provide a better tool to the tax authorities, in cooperation with the police and other authorities, in order to establish better, larger and more robust regional units in the fight against black work through the employer controls.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e813	‘Harstad/Narvik airport, Evenes, is a central airport in Northern Norway with significant traffic and, inter alia, more than 700000 passengers per year. By 2020 you will reach 1 million travelers. The aerodrome is also used actively by the Defence and it has been decided to be a QRA base for new fighter aeroplanes. Although Evenes is experiencing growth, Avinor’s north-eastern strategy has little to do with the plans ahead for the airport. What are the plans of the Harstad/Narvik Airport Government, Evenes?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e820	Harstad/Narvik Airport, Evenes, is one of the most growing airports in the country. Last year, the number of passengers increased by 6.4 pst. compared to the previous year. In addition to the regular growth in passenger numbers, increased traffic on Evenes is expected from 2017 when the Hålogaland bridge opens and Narvik airport is shut down. The new E10 will lead to increased traffic from the West Pole. Avinor has spent between 400 and 500 million. kr at Evenes since the terminal was built in 1998. By the summer of 2014, the runway was reasphalted, in addition to upgrading the safety areas and lighting installations. This was investment for about 150 million. NOK, so it's done a lot. According to Avinor, there are no major capacity challenges at Evenes now, but there is a need to upgrade security controls and baggage facilities. This work is already under way and an expanded security controls are expected to be completed in the second half of this year. Even’s airport will also – as mentioned above – be important for defence in the future. The size decided in 2012 that Evenes should be a forward base for the Defence Fighting Aircraft Preparedness when the new fighter base is developed in Ørland. This Decision is firm and is used as a basis for the ongoing planning of property, construction and civil engineering at the airport. The decision of the staging means that three fighter aeroplanes of type F-35 shall be located on Evenes, in addition to some exercise activities. The fighting readiness will require day-to-day operations at the airport, as planned by the Ministry of Defence from 2021 to 2022. Although the airport of Evene is not specifically mentioned in Avinor’s north-eastern strategy, I can assure you that the government has comprehensive future plans for Evene airport and follows the needs closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e831	I thank the Minister for the answer. That was a positive answer to what you can read out of the strategy. That strategy goes to 2040, but here you think a lot in a three-year perspective. That's right, but we have to remember that Harstad is, and will be, a prominent city in the north in terms of oil and gas, and with Narvik in addition as a technology center. Mid-Hålogaland, Vesterålen, Lofoten and Süd-Troms have the heaviest population base in North Norway. In addition, military aviation is increasing at Evenes, and it is no wonder that the region is surprised that there is so little about it in strategy thinking. As I was about to do, military activity is increasing, and my question is, What role has the defense played in this strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e838	So when you look at the answer that I've given, I've assumed that you don't see capacity challenges at Evenes. That's probably one of the reasons why you don't use a lot of text in a strategy either, when you think the capacity is good. In addition, it is not only on the roads in North Norway that there has been record-breaking asphalting during today's government, but also the runway was reasphalted. That means that the landing strip is considered to be in good shape right now. The areas that have been identified as challenging have been security controls and baggage facilities, where investments are made. It demands that when you have an airport that works well, as you expect to have a good role in the future, you don't have to spend a lot of space writing about and discussing those challenges. That's why I'd rather focus on the situation the airport is in, what we're communicating here, with expectations, and the fact that when the defense gets a more central role, there's going to be 24-hour continuous operations at the airport. All of this indicates that an airport gets an airport that will be very viable and have good prospects.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e845	I don't personally have so much knowledge of remote-controlled towers, but when I look at the plans that lie down, it's suggested that many of the small airports be controlled remotely. Evens is also an alternative to remote control. My question is: how will Avinor ensure that the defence activities are properly maintained at Evenes if a remote tower is to be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e852	Avinor's work on remote towers is a way where one can cut costs while maintaining safety, thus increasing the vitality of the airports we have in the districts, which tend to have little passenger traffic. It is important to ensure good air navigation services across the country. In the case of the individual aerodrome, Avinor, who is a company with a separate board, makes his judgements. It's not a state council that sits and makes those considerations. We have not yet received a decision from Avinor's board, and then it would be wrong for me to go in and start to advance consequences – what airports this will apply and the speed of progress – before Avinor has made his decision. But to me, this is very good. Of course, when making such decisions, Avinor must also take into account the defence activity at the aerodromes where applicable.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e861	‘The government has opened up the possibility of organising poker NM in Norway. A non-profit organisation is required to obtain a licence and to receive 2,5 per cent of a turnover of not more than 50 million. crowns, while the game operator shall be double. According to the newspaper Our Land, everyone who has applied has attached to a company registered on the Isle of Man tax haven, and the company will use the poker NM to recruit players for international tournaments. Is this a wild policy on the part of the government?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e868	It's a wild policy to open up to poker, so it's possible to get tournament poker in regulated and sound forms here in the country. This can be done with the same lottery code – who can be the operator of private lotteries – as it was when the red-green ones crashed. I would like to start by making the representative Aasrud aware that there are twice as many, i.e. 5 pst. of the turnover, for the purpose – not 2,5 pst., claimed by Aasrud. Poker is a game that has not previously been allowed in Norway. Nevertheless, there are many Nordics playing poker. So far, annual poker NM has been organised abroad with the participation of several thousand Nordics. By being open to poker NM, the Nordics are now given the opportunity to play tournament poker within regulated and sound forms also here in the country. Poker-NM will be a relatively small event. The maximum turnover can be assumed to be 50 million. kr, and restrictions have been placed on the number of participants and the amount of deposits. By the fact that there is only one annual championship in addition, poker NM involves, within the limits currently established, a very low risk of gambling problems. Poker-NM is a lottery under the Lottery Act. Permits to private lotteries may only be granted for humanitarian or social purposes, but their purposes may choose whether to operate the lotteries themselves or to use a private operator. The vast majority of purposes then choose to use a private operator. The Lottery Code does not restrict who may be the operators of private lotteries. So it was also under the red-green, and we haven't found any basis for changing this. Here we have to deal with the EEA Agreement rules on the free movement of services and the right of establishment. The EEA Code makes it impossible for us to exclude foreign companies from the EEA territory from providing such operator services in Norway. Nor have we placed any restrictions on companies outside the EEA area that wish to provide their operator services in Norway. Therefore, for poker NM operators, we have called for them to have, or relate to, the relevant competence to organise land-based tournament poker. This requirement has been included in the legislation to ensure that the poker NM is implemented in a competent and reassuring manner. The operator receives a maximum of 10 pst. of turnover as income. This shall cover all costs associated with the event, in addition to any profit. This means that the operator’s performance potential from the championship is limited. Otherwise, I would like to point out that it is not free for companies that want to provide operator services in Norway. These must be authorised by the Lottery Authority and a number of requirements have been imposed on operators who must be satisfied if they are to be able to do so. The Lottery Authority has now informed that they will meet in a short time with the company that is likely to be responsible for the poker NM, among others. the framework for the marketing ban will be reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e887	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I record that the Council of State is constantly saying that there is a red-green code on which to base its work. The difference is that our government didn't authorize poker NM. I think it was a rather passive answer that was given here. The operator is interviewed in Norway and says that one of their aims is to recruit players to poker abroad. When we know what consequences it has for individuals to become addicted to gambling, my question becomes to the Council of State: How will the Council of State actually ensure that you do not use poker NM to recruit players abroad, so that the problem of gambling addiction increases even more than it has now?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e896	The marketing of lotteries and gambling not authorised in Norway shall be prohibited. The poker NM itself can be marketed, but it will not be allowed to market other games related to the championship for recruitment purposes. This may, for example: include the use of logos on poker tables, poker chips, clothing and banners in premises. The lottery supervisor has informed – as I said in my previous reply – that they will shortly meet with the company that is likely to be responsible for the poker NM, where the framework for the marketing ban will be reviewed. I have a rather long list here of requirements that are required – ‘Authorisation can only be granted if the following conditions are met:...’ – and there are no less than 20 clarifications, and in addition it is open that one can do even more. So it doesn't mean that you have the opportunity to advertise in the recruitment context.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e901	Another side effect of the government's decision is getting operators registered in tax havens, and we heard in a question before here that there's a certain concern also on government teams that there might be a lot of money moving there. Last week I asked the Prime Minister a question about the same thing, and she justifies the liberalisations that are being made in this area, including: that our government, the red-green, refused Postcode lottery access to the Norwegian market. The postcode lottery, which is a lottery registered at the Netherlands Antilles, says in Swedish newspapers that they don't run charity, they run business. Is this also a misguided policy on the part of the government, shifting sales to tax havens instead of closing and keeping sales in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e908	As I said in my first answer, that's exactly what's the point. In the lottery code that the red-green government practiced, there were no restrictions on who could be the operator of private lotteries. They did not take advantage of the possibility of excluding or creating restrictions for companies outside the EEA territory wishing to provide their operator services in Norway. Neither has this government. In the case of companies within the EEA territory, it is not possible to make any restrictions or any discrimination, and I assume that the representative Aasrud is also aware of that. But as I said, we haven't made any other assessment than the one that the red-green government did in all the years they sat and ran. Thus, we have not imposed any further restrictions on companies outside the EEA area that wish to offer their operator services to different lotteries in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e919	I have the following questions for the Minister of Culture: «Seven Diver Club has written letters to the Riksantikvaren pointing to unfortunate conditions that weaken the protection of cultural memories in wrecks along the coast. The register of cultural memoriesok.no of the Riksantikvaren is precise on the declaration of wreckage. It makes it easy to find valuable cultural memories. Observations have been made of suspicious activity from boats and the sale of wrecked cultural memories at finn.no. What will the Council of State do to prevent the plundering of waste and the removal of important cultural memories from the Norwegian coast?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e928	The Culture Memory Act protects all wrecks over 100 years of age. It is the State which has the right to own ships and cargo and other goods which have been carried if the owner is not known. The Cultural Memory Act protects cultural memories as a national environmental asset, whether on land or in water. The purpose of the Act is to preserve these findings as resources, either as scientific source material or as a permanent basis for the experience of present and future generations. According to the Culture Memory Act, if you find a wreck, you have to say from there. Of course, the purpose of the country is not to make this information available to wreckers and others who have dishonest purposes. The purpose is to get more knowledge of these findings and to make these findings known, so that the public may have enjoyed them. Furthermore, this information has a general preventive effect. Knowing where such findings are located can prevent them from being harmed by planning and implementing measures at sea. Therefore, the register of cultural memories by the Riksantikvaren is a good measure to enable interested parties to search for and acquire knowledge of local cultural memories and of the findings made in their neighbourhood. However, even if someone should have dishonest intentions, I am not convinced that withholding information leads to something good. On the contrary, I stand for transparency and information sharing. And I'm glad we live in a society with a well-developed infrastructure. That's why we have the police, customs and Coast Guard, who have a clearly defined responsibility, and who, if they get to know the actions of dishonest individuals, turn down. In addition, I am pleased that we have the State's nature oversight, which has a good cooperation with cultural memory management, and which makes an important effort to keep track of the environmental values along the coast. However, in some cases it is necessary to go to more concrete actions and peace ships less than 100 years old. The temporary rescue of the ships Blücher and Tirpitz is a direct reaction of the Riksantikvaren on the increasing wreckage and the fact that the ships are also the tomb of all those who went down into the sea. However, I believe that cooperation between public authorities and local forces can work well, both for the interest in identifying these findings so that knowledge about them is increased, and for these findings to be preserved in the sea and a source of experience for divers and other interested parties. And I hope that those who may be on information about illegal acts will give notice of this to the appropriate authority, and that in general the public will not help to maintain the illegal movement of looted wrecks.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e945	Thank you for the thorough answer. Through Søgne and Songdalen Budstikke and Fädrelandsvenn, it is shown that it was picked up wrecks dated to the 1600s from a boat under foreign diplomatic protection. And a study from Rogaland showed that all the cultural memories examined there were disturbed, according to the information contained in the newspaper. I think that is quite serious. My follow-up question will then be: What initiatives has the Council of State taken, or will it take, to increase the scope for the control, which the Council of State also considers to be important, and to strengthen the follow-up and investigations associated with the offences suspected of being committed, and in relation to the disruptions of these sites?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e954	It is important that if anyone has information that wreckage is taking place, it must be notified to the police and investigated in the usual way, so that the facts of the case can be clarified. Nor is it the individual finder or the association of which he or she may be a member who has the ownership of those findings. If the wrecks are over 100 years of age and the owner is unknown, they are the property of the country and the finder is obliged to notify the appropriate authority. I believe that, through this question from the representative of Henriksen, there will also be more information about what is, in other words, the legislation in this area, and there is a need to remember.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e963	Yes, I can share that – that there is a need for knowledge about the legislation. But my question was whether the minister has taken, or will take, the initiative to increase control and detection, and whether the minister will address in bilateral talks with other countries the challenge it is, if that is the case that it is pointed to in the newspaper, that foreign countries' boats under the cover of diplomatic immunity actually do the catching up of old items – I think it was according to the Riksantikvaren, but items that were picked up were at least dated to the approximately 1600s. What initiatives will the Minister take in this area of control and bilateral agreements to put this problem on the agenda?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e968	I gave a thorough explanation in my answer about how this system is. If there's anyone doing something illegal here, this is an ordinary police case, and I assume that those who are much closer to this issue than the state council is, and who have information, alert the police, and that it's being investigated in the usual way, so that we can clarify the facts of the matter. This is an ordinary law for which the police will handle it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e977	‘Hepatit C is a contagious and chronic liver disease that poses a major health problem in Norway. The disease is referred to as the'silent epidemic'. The framework postponed groups in society, mainly former or active drug users. About 800 people are infected with the virus every year, and 20–30,000 live with chronic hepatitis C in Norway today. In 2012, fewer than 5 percent of the infected drug users received treatment. Now are new antiviral drugs on the market. What are the government's treatment ambitions for these patients?'
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e984	New and highly expensive medicines for the treatment of hepatitis C have emerged in the last year. In order to obtain control of the introduction of these medicinal products, some changes were made to the prescription of the blueprint from 1 November 2014. This includes, inter alia: that the relevant specialist must apply to HELFO for individual reimbursement for the treatment, on behalf of the patient. The conditions for reimbursement were changed from 24 February and are now in line with the recommendations of the professional community for whom treatment is to be offered. All new medicinal products can now be prescribed under the same conditions to patients with F2-F4 fibrosis. The National Institute for Public Health has been responsible for developing drafts for a coordinated, multisectoral, national strategy for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of viral hepatitis. The strategy shall be completed on 31 December of this year and shall be developed in cooperation with the Health Directorate, non-governmental organisations and, where appropriate, other relevant actors. Such a strategy is in line with decisions of the World Health Organisation Health Assembly in May 2014. Member States were invited to develop a strategy for viral liver infections — hepatitis — including treatment with antiviral medicines.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e991	I thank you for your answer. This is a matter that we have not discussed so often politically, if we have done so. I think it's a very interesting issue when we have so many patients, often former or active drug users, who have a chronic disease, and where we only give treatment when they get liver damage. What is a major political and professional issue is whether the aim of the treatment should still be to prevent liver damage or whether the aim of the treatment should in any case be to prevent infection in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e998	The issue raised by the representative here is an important and central issue. The first step is to ensure that the reimbursement criteria for the medical treatment of this disease are in line with the technical recommendations. So the Swedish Institute of Public Health is working on a strategy that also deals with prevention. In that work, the issue raised by the representative will be an important topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1005	Thanks for the answer. I understood that the national strategy should not go beyond what was in the framework, but I am referring to the Council of State saying that one should be able to assess whether one should be able to eradicate, for example. hepatitis C. So my question is, what kind of ambitions do you have? To get a little bit closer, now there's a million dollars worth of money. In the state budget for new drugs, is the ambition in the short term to treat as many patients as today with new drugs, or is the ambition to include more in the future? It would be nice to have a slightly more specific response to whether the Council of State thinks it should at least be a long-term goal for us to fight and eradicate hepatitis C, i.e. fight infection.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1012	The scheme currently in place implies that there is an individual reimbursement scheme. In that case, patients who meet the criteria recommended for professional use will be allowed to start treatment. There are no number limits attached to it. It will be a rule-based system based on an individual assessment, but where the technical criteria are clear as to who is to start treatment and who may not meet the professional criteria. The second question raised by the representative is a significantly larger and more comprehensive one. I do not have the opportunity to give a clear answer to that today. It's a question where we need to get recommendations from our professional body, and in these kinds of questions it'll be the Institute of Public Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1023	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice and Defence the following questions: ‘In the process of preventing the recruitment of terrorist networks and socio-terrorism, the police’s concern talks are an important tool. Among those who work with this locally in Oslo, it has been pointed out that the law house to call for such calls in section 13 of the police law applies to persons under 18 years of age. In many cases, the need for a discussion of concerns will also apply to persons of other age groups. Will the Council of State consider legislative changes that may oblige persons of all ages on an equal footing to meet concerns?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1032	Let me first thank the representative, Mr Bøhler, for a good question. The police's concern talks aim to capture the first-time criminals as early as possible and to identify any follow-up needs through the conversation. Those who commit crime for the first time are largely under 18 years of age. In the case of conversations with people of all ages, the methodology used in the discussion of concerns and the concept as a whole has proved to be very good. However, for this tool to function properly, it is essential that trust and good climate are present in the initial conversation. Therefore, most of the calls are initiated through an invitation and not after a call under the Police Act § 13. If the family only receives a call, or in the utmost consequence must be picked up by the police, there will be a heavy start to the conversation. Often this only ends with a police monologue. The home meal does not give the person any rights or obligations to speak or to provide information — nor to listen to what the police have to say. Therefore, there is mainly an invitation being used today. Invitations can be used to all, regardless of age. But it's clearly an advantage to have the home as a means of using it in utmost consistency to mark the seriousness of the situation. I see that there is a great point in the challenges of preventing radicalisation and violent extremism. In this context, it is essential to engage in dialogue in order to identify the need for follow-up and the extent to which individuals may have progressed in their radicalisation process. A challenge to this group is that it is not only the age limit that needs to be changed, but it will require a more extensive change in content. Section 13 of the Police Act states that there must be reason to believe that a person under the age of 15 has committed a ‘criminal act’ or ‘an otherwise punishable act’ in order to be able to summon or pick him up for conversation. As we know, it is not punishable to be radical or have extreme opinions, and it is an important balance with freedom of expression to intervene with someone in terms of their opinions and attitudes as long as they do not commit criminal acts. Today, it focuses on the methodology of concern talks as an effective and good tool in cases where the police want to use dialogue as a method. There is now provision for further training at the Police College to carry out concern talks. This will also happen to those over 18 years of age, and it will be a very important way to go in terms of increased skills and their consistent use as tools. Concern calls are already being used to address this group, where the call initiative is an invitation to people over 18 years of age. There is a strong focus on empowerment and uniform use in police districts today. Local courses are run for those who use worry calls as tools in their daily activities. And before we investigate a possible question of changing the law, it is therefore important to gain further experience on what are the challenges of carrying out conversations with this group, and on where the need for change and development is greatest.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1049	I thank the Council of State for an interesting and good answer and for discussing the same premises. It is clear that the action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism on which the government is building its policy and on which the Storting agrees must mean that we give the police the tools that are appropriate and that we see whether the tools that are available to us today are working. As the Council of State says, the section of the police law that can possibly be used to summon, i.e. to do something more than invite, is shaped by other issues. The policemen I've talked to and who are working preventively with this out in the metropolitan areas of Oslo, describe it so that there are some people who can't be influenced yet, but who aren't there yet that they're coming to a nice conversation. It's an intercession before you're fully executed followers of terror. That state council should look at further, is this middle group, where you need something more to get them to meet up and maybe slide.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1058	I absolutely recognise that issue. It is important to provide the police with the tools they need to help prevent radicalisation and violent extremism in the most effective and good way possible. At the same time, I think that part of the group, as I mentioned in my main response, will be of such a category that being called, or picked up in the utmost consequence, does not necessarily contribute to the dialogue between the person and the police being specially strengthened. That's why it's probably important, I think – as long as the basis of the house is as it is – that one at least uses the method that these conversations are, to the extent possible. The police have a quite wide range of tools to get in touch with this group. But I fully agree that one must assess this in the future, and whether there is a need to look at whether the basis for registration should be extended. But then one must also consider the consequences of the use of this instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1065	I thank you again for the answer. To me, it's clear, as police officers working on this, describe, that there's a group of people who, even though they're over 18, need to understand the seriousness. There is no dialogue today, but sitting down, and the fact that the police can go through things thoroughly in such an atmosphere as it is in a worried conversation at the police station can mean that you're moving. So I'm asking you to take this perspective very seriously: that it's an experience that you have a group of people over 18 years of age where you need to get started with something. It is difficult to see that there should be a limited level of concern to them under the age of 18. How the lawroom you use is organized should really be looked at.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1074	I want to make it clear that this way of using worry calls is not limited to people under 18 years of age. Concern calls are used for a much larger group, but then they are based on a real dialogue through an invitation, one in which a volunteer becomes a participant in such a communication. It is also widely used by PST and police prevention units — including in groups with far older people than 18 years of age. I share the concern for those who may be in a border country, who need this extra motivation, to call it that, to get into some kind of dialogue with the police. But I think we need to carefully evaluate what the consequences of it will also be before a possible further consideration of an extension of the grounds of residence. But I think this is an interesting input, which we're going to get on with.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1085	‘The case treatment period in the UDI in family reunification cases is approximately 12 months, and the waiting time has increased through 2014. The Council of State has stated that the UDI is unable to achieve its objectives of shorter procedural periods due to the reorganisation and reduction of procedural capacity as a result. In response to questions from Stortinget, the Council of State states that the processing time is expected to decrease in 2015. What measures have been taken to reduce the length of proceedings in family reunification cases and what results have been achieved?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1092	Initially, I would like to thank you for the question. It is absolutely a correct and important issue that the representative points to. I would also like to say that I have a great deal of understanding that long processing times in the foreign administration are a test for those involved. I agree that today's processing times in family matters are not at an acceptable level. The government strengthened in 2014 UDI by about 30 million. kr – i.e. We proposed it, and the Stortinget decided on the strengthening – for the treatment of several housing cases and ICT developments. This has continued for 2015. It is up to the UDI to find the best measures for the most effective procedure within the allocated framework, and I expect the UDI to work continuously to improve case flow and increase efficiency in order to provide a predictable procedure. In 2014, the UDI implemented several measures to streamline the treatment of family matters: the reorganisation of the UDI’s guidance service, electronic messages to users at different stages of the process, and new websites where the applicant is focused. These are measures designed to better respond to users and reduce the number of user requests to the UDI and thereby increase the procedural capacity. The introduction of this reorganisation has led to an increase in the processing time and the UDI did not obtain the immediate results they expected from this reorganisation. However, it is important for the UDI to implement measures aimed at contributing to longer-term efficiency. The UDI now reports that they are starting to see the impact of the measures implemented in 2014. I follow closely the developments through the governance dialogue with the UDI and the demand in the governance dialogue the impact of the measures that have been taken. If the expected results persist, other measures need to be considered. Unfortunately, it is not realistic with a sharp reduction in the length of proceedings in 2015. To that, UDI already has too many old cases to deal with. I still expect a certain decrease during 2015, especially for the matters that are priority and curative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1105	We have recorded that at the turn of the year, about 12 000 families were in line to process their family reunification applications. Many of these address us. It is especially painful where there are kids – young children – inside the picture. Some people have had to stay abroad temporarily to have contact with their newborns at all, for example. This is just one example of major challenges that have arisen. In his response in January, the Council of State pointed out that the main reason for this period of proceedings – which he was in the process of doing – is resources for training in connection with the reorganisation. It is difficult to accept that a system almost collapses due to a planned training. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate that internal training in the UDI has been provided with the consequence that the period of family reunification has become twice that required by the letters of assignment of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1112	I expect the underlying agencies to deliver the results they are told to deliver, both through the leaders that Stortinget gives, and through the leadership that we put in the letter of allocation. Then I record that there have been some challenges along the way in terms of UDI's efforts to streamline and improve the process. This means that they are also now working further to find a more effective and better way of dealing with their affairs. In my opinion, in particular, it is necessary to consider whether a procedure can be different according to the type of case involved. Some issues are relatively simple, curative issues, which should take a short time to deal with, while in other, more complicated issues it is necessary to spend some more time, for example if one is dependent on others in order to deal with the matter, by taking DNA samples, etc. There are several factors that affect this. I believe it is important that we now ensure that the UDI is able, and enables itself, to have an effective procedure, which ensures that in the future – even if it will take some time – they will deliver within the deadlines set.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1121	I understood the answer to that, that we can expect a certain improvement in 2015, but that we cannot expect everything to be taken care of during this year. As I understood it, the UDI could not promise that they would be able to meet the requirements during the year. Then the questions are, are there too few resources that we can do something about this? Has the State Council assessed whether there is a need to provide UDI with more resources temporarily – to take a power cap to reduce the queue – or whether there is a need for more resources to process capacity over time? Will the Council consider making an additional allocation in connection with RNB, just to take away the large queue that has arisen?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1128	Just to be very precise: when I say a certain improvement, it means that we are far from achieving the goals that they should achieve in 2015 – so that the expectations list is not too high. I think that is unacceptable. Therefore, it is important that one facilitates the further effectiveness of the UDI process. In addition, it is always the case that one has to assess the need for resources, but it is done in the ordinary budgetary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1139	‘Today, the Kristiansund Police Chamber has sole responsibility in its area, but this is now proposed to be transferred to Stavanger. The competence associated with the liability of the socket is gradually built up with technicians and investigators. These can quickly move out, and give close follow-up to the oil companies. The starting point of the police reform is to build up under the local police. More and Romesdal police districts are relatively small, so how can the Council of State go in to build up this important special competence in this police district?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1146	The questioner points out that the starting point of the reform of the police is, among other things, is that you have to build up under the local police. That is an entirely correct assessment, it is one of the primary objectives of this police reform. The close police reform must facilitate a good and present police force. But to achieve that, we also need to meet the challenges we face in the field of crime. Also in the area of rescue services, social security and preparedness, we need to ensure that the police have an appropriate organisation both at police district level and at national level. Police are a central player in the security of society. The extensive responsibilities and diversity of tasks in this area require competence, planning, carrying out exercises and coordination between different actors. By providing some larger units, the police will be able to create more robust professional environments with a higher level of top-notch competence, while at the same time providing more police force for operational and visible police services. The responsibility for police tasks on the continental shelf is now divided into four police districts: Rogaland Police District, North Moravia and Romesdal Police District, Helgeland Police District and Trom Police District. The responsibility for the operational coordination and management of the rescue services lies with two main rescue centres – one in Stavanger and one in Bodø. The boundary between these two centres goes at 65 degrees north, i.e. between the Northern Trøndelag and the Helgeland Police District. The current organisation of the rescue services is well-functioning and is to be continued, in particular by changing police district structures. Through the proposed changes to the continental responsibilities of the police, a corresponding number of responsibilities will arise. It has been believed that the parties of government and the Left have been an advantage in this respect. We've assumed that we need to streamline and improve the supply and responsibility for the continental shelf in the collapse proposition we've put forward. We would therefore feel that it is better to pool this expertise in the same way as one has done in the rescue services — in two police districts, instead of distributing it to others.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1155	With the government's police reform, it is so far completely unclear what kind of police we will get in More and Rome's valley in the future. The district division seems to be based on completely random criteria. How the reform is to trigger more local police force is so far impossible to read out of the proposal for the reform. At present, it appears more like a centralisation reform than a near-police reform, as the government tries to refer to it as. I have some follow-up questions. One is, will the competence be improved by moving this to Stavanger? The second is: Is the agreement between the government and the Left and Christian People's Party – i.e. the supporting parties to the government – locked, or is it the basis for the negotiation of the Left or Christian People's Party to adjust the course if they disagree with the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1162	Let me first say that I absolutely do not share the starting point of the representative Else-May Botten for what one can read of the proposition on police reform. I mean a very clear reader there that we should get a clearly better neighbourhood police force – a police force that prevents and is present, that has the skills and resources to investigate and organise, and that will ensure a better preparedness. So I definitely don't share the character of the representative Botten. I also think that it's very clear in the proposition. In terms of competence, we believe that by bringing this together in two places, one will ensure that one gets an even better skill than one today, without me saying that the competence that is currently in the police districts is not satisfactory. But we want to strengthen it by collecting it in two places instead of in more. In addition, we do not have a cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party exactly in terms of police reform – it is with the Left. Both the Left and the Government parties have been open that we want to ensure the widest possible anchoring of police reform in Stortinget. That means that this is possible as long as these three parties in the Storting together agree that there may be changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1171	The police officer in North Moravia and Romesdal has been in charge since 1980. It is a permanent team, annual exercises and close dialogue with the oil companies, and its competence can also be used in nearby rural sites, such as the Worm Lange, the Tent Goods, Hydro, Hustadmarmor etc. These may also be subject to future terror, so it is important to have close contact and prevention. I cannot understand how, given the arguments he is now making, the Council of State may feel that this could be a better offer for the rigging on the base. Continued: there is no financial basis, the offer has not been determined, and that is very poorly justified. So once again, can this be better for the socket in central Norway, or will it exacerbate the situation – in terms of both prevention and research?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1178	I understand that one is very concerned about defending the competence of his own police district, and I underlined in my previous reply that this is not an attack on the competence of the police district today, but it is a more appropriate organisation to ensure that one gets an even stronger professional environment in two places instead of in more – which will also release police force for other tasks. The answer to this follow-up question is the same as the answer to the same question instead: we believe that it will improve competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1189	‘On questions from the Minister of Justice and Security of 11 March 2015 on the understanding by PST that they did not need to notify using mobile zones, answer the Minister of Justice and Security ‘You almost have to include the PST’. Why did he refer to PST, instead of exercising leadership by expressing what expectations he has of strange etats?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1196	I record that the Labour Party is constantly trying to spread doubt about the characteristics of the undersigned as head, and I think that the head of the Judicial Committee and I have a different view of what leadership is, if the head of the Judicial Committee believes that a Council of State should express itself on that kind of question in advance of having considered what is actually the issue. As far as I know, the head of the Judicial Committee has quite good legal competence, and as she is familiar with, there are therefore two provisions in different laws that contradict each other in this specific matter, and therefore the PST has attributed to the ministry for an assessment of what we think about this. That assessment has been assessed by the Legal Department – which has even better competence than both the chairperson of the Judicial Committee and I as a whole are in possession of – and they believe that there are legal arguments to interpret it in the way that the Riksadvokat and the PST have done, but they believe that, overall, it is right that the eco-nomy goes ahead of the taushets provisions of the Criminal Procedures Act and the Police Act. It will also form the basis for my feedback. But I think it's important if you're going to exercise leadership, if you're sure of what kind of conclusions you're going to reach, and if you don't express yourself on a basis that isn't clear first, and secondly, I answered a question that PST thought there was a basis for them to deal with these warnings the way they did, and it almost had to defend PST before the department has taken a decision on what we actually think about that question. I think that's good management, and I think it's pretty good management, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1205	The council says that he can't, prior to an assessment of what's happening, start to make a statement about it. But then he could have said it. He could have said that all the facts are not on the table, and that he should decide when the facts are on the table. Instead, the Minister of Justice chooses to point down and say that this must be included in the PST. He's talking about these relationships as if they've never been evaluated before. He emphasises that it is complicated, and he says that there is a contradiction between different laws – he also pointed out during the spontaneous Question Time – but this stands out as a relatively open case of lex specialis, where special laws lead. In addition, the relationship between the obligation to tender and the obligation to give warning has been carefully assessed in the preparation of the eco-law and the obligation to provide warning is the most weighty. Then it is unclear to the rest of us what it is that is unclear to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1210	I can't take it very seriously that the head of the Justice Committee is dissatisfied with my formulations in a response to the media. I think we both live well with that. So I do not agree – and neither is the Ministry of Justice’s law department – that this is a clearly legal case. So they've shown that there are reasons why both of them understand. This is something that should have been resolved by changes to the law when changes to the eco-law were adopted in 2013. It was not solved. That is why we have had the Law Department make a thorough assessment of this issue, and their conclusion is that they believe the most natural thing is that the echom law takes precedence over the taushets provisions of the Criminal Procedures Act and the Police Act. We use that in our feedback to PST. I think it's a little strange that the head of the Judicial Committee is so clear that this has not been a problem at all, and that it has been fully assessed, when both the legal competence of the PST and the Riksadvokat have a slightly different view of it. But I'll just take that for information.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1219	It is strange to hear the Minister of Justice reflecting on this, because he talks about this being a situation that should have been resolved. One should have discussed it at an earlier time, should have taken a stand for it at an earlier time. But this is discussed, it's the drawing position, it's part of the preparation of the echo promise, where a clear discussion is just about the relationship between the payroll and the warning obligation. And just because you've assessed this, the legislation in this field is pretty clear and clear. It is difficult to understand why this is something the Minister of Justice needs to spend considerable time on before he clearly decides what he thinks should be the laws PST adheres to. But we can still fool – and I want to follow it too: If he actually thinks that the problem here was that things were unclear to him, why isn't it then what is his answer when he is challenged from the Evening Post? I'm not sure, he could have said, I want to find out. But his answer is that he points downwards on his inferior level – again, I am tempted to say – and wants them to answer on behalf of him.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1226	I really think this issue is developing in a rather festive direction, because these are my wordings the representative Tajik is still dissatisfied with, and claims that I am pointing downwards. So the question was whether I agreed with the PST that there were warrants, and I showed that the PST had assessed this relationship to the fact that they thought there were warrants. So you could say that I should have formulated myself in a different way. I just don't think the Greatness Chair should be used for that kind of semantics. I also directly disagree with the representative Tajik that this was as obvious as what she said, and it is reflected in the treatment we have had in the department. Now the conclusion is right. We will express it to the PST, and therefore it should be resolved – in addition to looking at how we should solve that law so that one does not have a persistent situation where there is a conflict in the law between two different regulations. I am quite convinced that at least the chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1238	The question to the Minister of Justice is: ‘Syria now enters the fifth year of war. The humanitarian situation has become extreme, with 12 million people fleeing. The neighbouring countries have taken 3.8 million refugees in total. In Europe, Germany and Sweden have taken exceptional steps to help as much as possible. Recently, a number of organisations launched a effort requiring Norway to receive at least 10,000 Syrian refugees. What will the Council of State do to protect several Syrian refugees, and to ensure that Norwegian municipalities will and can accept them?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1247	The situation in Syria is very, very serious, and the humanitarian situation is very serious. I would like to thank the representative for addressing an important issue. The government believes that we must contribute both to support measures in the region and by accepting refugees. Norway has contributed about 1.45 billion. aid to Syria and the region since the start of the conflict and is one of the largest humanitarian contributors. In 2014, Norway contributed more than 930 million. kr. In 2015, the government will continue to give high priority to humanitarian action in Syria and neighbouring countries. In addition, Norway increased the quota for transfer refugees by 1000 places in 2015. The total quota is now in 2120 places, and it's never been bigger. Enlargement came as a result of the increased need to accept Syrian refugees and the budgetary agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. It is Norway that now has the largest quota for transfer refugees in Europe, and we are accepting most Syrian quota refugees this year. Germany has established a scheme called the Humanitarian Admission Programme, where they receive 20 000 acids over a four-year period and grant temporary authorisations. What happens to the Norwegian quota in the future will be the subject of discussion in relevant budgetary processes. With regard to the settlement of refugees and the capacity of the municipalities, I point out that on 1 December 2014, the Stortinget adopted a request to the government to ‘provide in an appropriate manner an overview of the overall capacity to accommodate refugees in all the municipalities of the country’. The residence of refugees in municipalities falls within the responsibility of the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion. The Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion aims to respond to the request decisions in the context of the presentation of the revised national budget in May, after I have been informed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1260	The opening of so-called collective protection was introduced into the Foreign Affairs Act in the wake of the Balkan war a few decades ago, and the intention was to provide an opening for protection during periods of mass effusion. Is the Minister of Justice open to assess this opening in the law in connection with the refugee disaster in Syria? If the answer is no, how does the Minister of Justice then estimate that a disaster should occur in order to trigger the use of this paragraph?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1265	The starting point is that asylum applications are treated individually. This is a good starting point for asylum management. It takes a lot more to provide collective protection, and there are benefits and disadvantages to it. But it is true that we believe that this is the basis for maintaining the practice that one does not provide collective protection, but still has an individual treatment of asylum applications, including applications from Syria.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1270	The Council of State refers to good reasons for not applying collective protection. We are facing the greatest humanitarian disaster in Europe after the Second World War, so it is interesting to hear what the good reasons for continuing to hold individual judgment are in such a situation, when you know that a few decades ago, we considered it quite differently in connection with the mass migration in the Balkans. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees has appealed to the world community to receive more refugees from nearby areas. The countries around Syria formally shout for help, they are completely crowded, so the question is left: can the Council of State at least justify a little more precisely why this exceptional disaster should not trigger collective protection as an instrument?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1275	Let me first say that I share the representative's reality description. It is a huge humanitarian disaster, and there are huge numbers of people on the run. It is a situation that Norway takes seriously through the contributions we make internationally, and through the refugees we receive, not only as refugees, but also those who come to Norway as asylum seekers. It is then a fundamental principle in the foreign administration that protection needs are assessed individually. Not all applicants who say they are from Syria are allowed to stay in Norway. There are also people in such a situation as this. comes from elsewhere and says they're from Syria. Therefore, it is still important to maintain individual treatment of asylum applications coming to Norway and not open to providing collective protection. I believe that it is also a number of other issues that can be discussed in order for an individual to have an individual assessment, including: security policy aspects.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1293	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1300	My question to the Minister of Knowledge is as follows: ‘National tests are an important management tool in schools. At the same time, more and more schools are using iPad in their training. This sets new requirements for the implementation of national samples and screening tests. Some schools have reported that it is not possible to carry out these tests on iPad, which makes it difficult to carry out tests for pupils and teachers. How will the State Council ensure that national tests on iPad are technically feasible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1309	I would like to thank you for the question, which has well been sent in via PC. The representative of Asheim is right that it is currently not possible to carry out national tests and screening tests on tablets. The testing system was simply developed before tablets were used in school. The tests have therefore been developed to enable students to respond to tasks using keyboard and mouse, and not touch technology. It is natural that schools using computer boards in the training will also want national tests to be carried out on tablets, but just as a paper sample cannot be transmitted to screen immediately, an electronic sample cannot be transmitted to tablet devices without delay. It is important that there is a basis for professional assessments to ensure that the tests continue to measure the skills we want to measure. It is also important that students are shown their skills without technical barriers. The Directorate of Education, which administers the testing system on behalf of the Ministry of Knowledge, is now working on the further development of the technical systems to facilitate on-board testing. The work is carried out in close cooperation with the professional communities developing the tests, and the changes are tested several times to ensure that the technology is working, and to ensure that the tests measure the same on both platforms. On schedule, it shall be possible to conduct on-board tests from the next school year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1324	I thank you for your answer. It is very positive that the government is already addressing this challenge for the schools. It is quite right, as the Minister of Knowledge says, that this question has been sent on the PC, but it is also the case that we at Stortinget are so lucky to have distributed the iPad. The challenge in school is that the schools that use iPad do not necessarily have access to PC at the same time. This again means that some schools, Jong School in Bærum, for example, who contacted me about this problem, were told by the Education Directorate that they had to borrow computers from other schools to conduct national tests. So it's the school owner, the municipalities, who's responsible for making sure they have the material they need. I share in many ways the Minister of Knowledge's skepticism with an overconfidence – to use that word – in ICT at school, but the schools that have chosen iPad as their platform for learning should also be allowed to use it when carrying out the national tests, which are an important tool for identifying the knowledge that students receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1331	I think it is good that the representative Asheim takes the ombudsman role and raises issues from the school. We are in complete agreement here. There is no need for national tests to be carried out on a PC rather than on iPad, precisely because schools have full freedom to choose whether to equip students with a PC or an iPad. That work is important to get started. If everything goes according to plan, it should be possible for students at Jong School and other students at schools in Norway who have a tablet to do the on-board tests from the next school year, so that they do not have to go to the neighbouring school and spend time doing it to pass the tests.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1336	Then there's case no. 2, the ordinary Questionnaire, processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-18.ana.ud605e1349	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
