ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e26	The called alternate of Hedmark County, Hege Jensen, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e41	The Stortinget received on Monday's notice from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Børge Brende, State Councillor Thorhild Widvey and Councillor Robert Eriksson will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The first main question is from Dag Terje Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e48	The process we have had in Norway with the pension reform seems to me to be a very good example of a broad political compromise in major, important national issues. The last stage of the major complex of pension reform is the impregnation of a unanimous decision in the Stortinget. It is our shared responsibility, and it was not pre-reform that would be a savings reform, but a change of system. The majority stressed that the proposal should ensure a good disability – at least at the level of today’s rules or better, that was what the Stortinget said at the time. After the reform has been completed, we get a lot of input from individuals who, based on payments now in the first month, are concerned about the effects of the reform. Non-governmental organisations claim that as many as 170,000–200,000, and well above that, may have lost significantly on the reform. This means that, on the part of the Labour Party, we believe that it is necessary to address the situation of the individual in detail, take the concerns seriously and jointly examine the cause of the figures that emerge, in order to take them seriously. That is why, in the Labour and Social Committee, we have proposed for the first time to deal with a matter in Stortinget under Section 22 of the Rules of Procedure, in order to have a dialogue and a discussion with the government on how to jointly take responsibility for following up our intentions in a reform that we have agreed on. That's our starting point. We have to take the uncertainty seriously, but we have to go seriously in there and figure out what's really going on, how much can be explained, and how much is evening out over the year. On the basis of this, I would like to ask the Council of State: is the Council of State in favour of taking joint responsibility and having such a dialogue in order to implement the intention of the reform and possibly clear up unintended effects?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e57	I thank you for the question. Let me start by saying that the FPR was adopted in 2011, after a thorough investigation into the FDR. It was also clear from the report of the Selection Board, and not least from the proposition delivered to Stortinget, that the main objective was to make it easier to combine work and disability. You should get about the same out. It meant that someone would get out better, someone would get out a little bit worse. It is also stated in the documents. It was a starting point that was well known to the Stortinget, and was presented to the government at that time. Even at the time, I was in opposition and felt that the tax rules could be a problem for some in a transitional phase. Therefore, this government came with a transitional arrangement, to prevent so many people from getting an extra tax increase overnight. The transitional system works satisfactorily and has made it less necessary than we thought when we made the state budget. That means there's more people coming out better. So it'll still be so that someone gets worse out. I agree with Mr Andersen that we all share a shared responsibility to ensure that the intentions, the purpose of the unfettered reform, are met in a good and proper way, and that, at the same time, we ensure that we have a good policy that prevents people from becoming dramatically worse off in terms of living conditions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e66	In the case of this transitional arrangement, which is linked to the fact that some people are getting worse because they have high debts and are thus losing tax on the change, there is a solution to which there is an agreement. In any major reform, one will discover that there are some effects that one has to take into account when it is actually to be implemented. There has been a lot of work to do with the misreform, and the Storting has been concerned about it. We got a government that got compensation in place, and a unanimous increase that put in place the compensation scheme. On the part of the Labour Party, we have stressed that a three-year transitional system may be too small, that we must have a permanent system. But that is precisely how we should deal with the unintended effects of the reform. Now there are a number of other proposals that affect those who have been proposed by the Council of State, in which we disagreed, and which are restrictive, but my concern today is not to squander on it, we can take that on other occasions. My concern today is to invite the Council of State to take them seriously, go deep and find reasons, and possibly compensate, if necessary. That's what I'm inviting the Council of State to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e73	The state councils take seriously the fears of some disqualified people. Therefore, the transitional regime is in place. We also take it seriously by following developments further closely. I also record that the Stortinget should have a debate on it. Should I be invited to participate in that debate, I will naturally set up and participate. And I expect the Storting will invite me to participate in such a debate. I also think it is important that we together manage to find good arrangements. If you are going to have a permanent transitional arrangement, it's too early to say as of today, because then you're also going away from the whole tax principle, which was one of the important foundations of the underprivileged reform. But what is important is to make sure that you have targeted, good actions with regard to the families who might be disadvantaged, and to make sure that there is a good development in living conditions for all those who are too ill to participate in the working life, so that you can have a decent life in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e80	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Lise Christoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e83	I would like to start by saying that I think it is very positive that the Council of State has an open position that the Storting together can find good arrangements that take into account the unforeseen effects of the unforeseeable reform. I have noticed that the Council of State has been involved in the past, among other things. in Tønsbergs Blad on 7 February, where he says that we are ‘willing to assess targeted measures for those affected, and especially for those who are responsible for child care’. After all, we had a rather heated debate on the proposal for a cut in the child supplement, as a majority of the Stortinget fortunately stopped, but does that mean that the Council of State is now taking maritime criticism of the extensive cuts that he proposed for families with children who are disabled, and that we can count on that kind of proposal not coming up again?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e90	Firstly, I support the proposals made by this government in the State budget. This government came up with targeted measures. This means that several families with children who were in a poor situation had lower child care costs. The children who grow up with lonely, low-income disabled people got better scholarships. Targeted services, activities and leisure activities were provided to enable these children to have the same opportunities to participate in activities as other children. I think that is a good, targeted tool use to ensure that. Then I will register the decision taken in Stortinget. Any government, including this government, will deal with the decisions taken in the Grand Duchy. But what the frail reform adds up to is a completely different debate. It's the tax conversion that makes these differences come, and there we have made a compensation in the form of a transitional arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e97	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e100	I think many people are asking themselves – when a reform has been adopted here in the Storting over four years ago – that until the time of disbursement it is unknown to those who are going to receive the benefit, what the new benefit will be, and that when you contact the relevant public agencies, you hardly get a good answer. It must be a cross of thought for everyone in this Chamber that reforms seem so poorly prepared at the point of informing those who are actually being affected. The budgetary agreement also agrees that the possible unintended consequences of this reform must be considered. I want to ask the Council of State: Does he currently? see any unintended consequences he believes there is actually reason to do something about?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e108	Let me first thank you for the question. I fully agree with the representative that it is incredibly important when major reforms are being made, that they are well planned and implemented, and that those affected by the reforms are getting good and correct information as early as possible, in order to know the consequences of the reforms that the Storting had to adopt. You could have done this before, at my discretion. Looking at the consequences of the tax conversion, it was already called for in 2011, to which the then government said no, as the Storting said no, and as suggested in the Stortinget. This reform was adopted in 2011. The same decision also states that it should be implemented from 1 January 2015 – a decision taken by Stortinget. The unintended effects we've seen so far are well known, and I haven't seen any new ones as of today, other than those that are already known, namely those that have to do with the tax conversion that has been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e121	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e124	New disability benefits are dealt with in many cases here in Stortinget. There has been a broad consensus. The red-green government presented proposals that were adopted and the current government submitted proposals for a transitional period of three years. The Labour and Social Committee shall address this in depth. So the Storting has done a solid job here. Nevertheless, figures from the Tax Directorate, based on the best available tax returns and information, now show that 94 000 people receive an increase in net income of over NOK 6000, that 176 000 people receive plus/minus NOK 6000 per year, and that over 14 000 are estimated to have a decrease of over NOK 6000. My question to the Council of State is: Can the Council of State provide a breakdown of the 14 000 who receive more than NOK 6000 over income ranges as a loser, and what is the main reason for a loss? This would be informative for further consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e133	Thank you for the question. I might need a longer time than 1 minute to go through this thoroughly. I can always give written feedback to help the committee as best I can. One of the reasons why the 14,000 loses is that there are a lot of people who have a public service pension, who don't have a paycheck out of the population, so they have little disability coverage, they work a lot, and they're married or they're cohabiting with a high income. This means taxing the disability coverage of the occupational pension, which has not been taken into account in the malpractice reform, which is mainly about a popular-reform reform. You won't get the same tax deductions you've had in the past by subtracting 150 pst. of the interest costs. So a family could subtract 150 pst. of the interest costs, now it's 100 pst. They'll come out worse and lose weight on it, while they're in high debt. This is one of the explanations why many of the 14,000 get worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e140	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e143	The left supports the under-reform and I think it is important that it be easy to combine work and social security, and important for the resilience of the system. For the individual Nav user and the individual disability benefit, this is not about what one or the other government has done and said, it's about the relationship with Nav, which is a great deal of distance to which many people experience. Just before Christmas, I received a letter that a misappropriation had been sent from Nav, who informed about the changes in the system. She said she didn't understand that letter – she wondered if I understood it. After reading it a couple of times, I had to admit that I didn't either. The government has talked a lot about it wanting – as it is called – to renew, simplify and improve the public sector. Could a place to start be renewing, simplifying and improving Nav's language? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e154	The answer is yes. We have started this work through the Expert Committee, with new letter templates, that what is being put out on the new web pages, follows the guidelines for clear language. I fully agree with the representative that it is a concern and a problem when you receive a letter from a public office – whether it is Nav or other public offices – and you do not understand the content of it. One of the things that the Expert Committee has also pointed out is that too poor language leads to Nav getting more users than you strictly need, because you have to go back to the Nav office to get guidance on what is really in the letters. This is something we have undertaken and are trying to clean up, namely by dealing with the guidelines for clear language. There is a lot of work to be done, but the work is well done. Mistakes are one of the groups we've started with -- through better, online, information.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e163	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e166	The speech of the numbers is clear when people now get the disability benefit into the account. Very many loses. We see that there may be as many as two out of ten who have lost on the conversion, although there is great uncertainty about the numbers and about what has happened. On the basis of the misreform, it was unanimous that people should not lose but get about the same money as before. We must therefore say that there are some unintended consequences, and it is the responsibility of the Council of State to clean up. That is why I wonder if the Council of State will come to the Stortinget with changes that will prevent the miscarriage from losing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e173	First of all, in my head when you talk about unintended effects, it's about information that hasn't been known at all. In this respect, two out of ten are likely to be worse off with the new pre-accession reform, it is well communicated in the Stortinget on several occasions, both in budgetary documents and in the revised national budget. So there's an information that's been well known. It is also well known through the Occurrence Committee, which in its time pointed out that ‘approximately similar’ would mean that someone came out better, some coming out worse. The implementation reform, as it is today, is not austerity reform. The total proceeds is that you spend more on disability benefits now than you did in the past. So it's not a savings reform, but a better reform to combine work and disability. I think that's important that we take over. Yes, someone has come out worse. Therefore, the transitional regime is important. So it's important that we now go through all the sides of the disability benefit. I think that's good. It is important to be able to see if better measures can be taken to prevent people from becoming dramatically worse off.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e184	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e188	My question is to the Minister of Culture. The government has said she will introduce Sunday-open shops. That is why the Christian People's Party has asked about the consequences of government policy in this area. We have asked the Minister for the Environment what the consequences are for climate and the environment, and the answer is that ‘it is difficult to estimate the overall impact of the proposed deregulation’. Then we have asked the Minister of Labour what the consequences are for the workers, and the answer we have received is that it is difficult to accurately estimate the consequences of the proposal. Then we've asked the Minister of Culture what the consequences are for Sunday as a different day for the community. The answer is also here that it is ‘difficult to say something safe about now’. So the conclusion is that the government says it's hard to say anything about the consequences of the proposal that a person now wants to send on the phone. Then the Minister for Culture also says in his reply: «Both traders and consumers will have greater freedom of choice, but this freedom does not need to change the individual's priorities and time-use.» This means that there is no need to change the timing and priorities of each individual. Will it also apply to the 370,000 who work in the retail trade? Would it also apply to the families of the 370,000 who work in the retail trade, that one does not need to make any changes? Per Arne Dahl has said: «The government has promised to introduce Sunday open shops [[...]] My question is, Has the government done that?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e218	There is nothing to hide that this is a political view of the government. We have had it included in our declaration of accession, that we want to facilitate the conditions for getting more open on Sundays, so that it is not the discrimination that is there today. I have registered that there are very many people who are engaged in this debate, and who are particularly concerned with impact assessments and of what lack of impact assessments might be available. We do not see that there is any basis for carrying out any impact studies – for the following reasons: firstly, the shops will not be required to have them open. It's going to be a freedom of choice for all the shops to make independent assessments. It is also such that there will be freedom of choice for those of us who have to choose as consumers to act on Sundays. I might think that if you were to make some impact assessments, you would have to take care of the shops that are open today, and look at the consequences for the environment, whether it has gone beyond the time you've had to rest, or other arguments that have been used. A prerequisite for making the necessary assessments almost had to be that you had gone back and had not been open. I think it's pretty hard to imagine that you have any chance of doing that kind of assessments. I repeat: this is an optional offer. It is not a requirement, but an optional option – an opportunity to keep open to the shops that want to, and also to those who choose to act.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e229	I thank you for the answer, but I also record that the government says very clearly that they do not understand the consequences of the proposal they are making. They don't want to figure out the consequences. As the Council of State itself says – this is a political argument, one does not want to receive professional evidence, either for individuals, for the environment, for employees or for the districts in this matter. I thought that was very serious. We're going to have ideological debates, but I think it's important that we know what it will lead to. The council says we need sleep days, but ask if it's the way we need to have the same day all together. I think it's important that a family have a common day where they get time for each other, and that one doesn't split it up. Thinking that what other people do, it doesn't matter, I think I'm naive.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e236	When we send this proposal to the hearing, it is because we want feedback from both industries and institutions and those who want to be heard. The feedback that had to be received will, for example: perhaps give important answers about different consequences, and then the government will take it into consideration before we may promote this matter for the Storting, or before we conclude. We also have to think about our starting point is that we want to get equal treatment. There is a great deal of discrimination today. For example, there are tourist places where shops have actually opened also on Sundays, Christmas Day, Pentecost 1st and all these special holidays, while 20 minutes further into the village is closed. There are also many good examples here in town that some shops have the opportunity to be open, while others don't get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e243	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e246	The government has many in its political position in the case of Sunday-open shops. Customers are against, shoppers are against, shop managers are against, employees are against, employers are against – yes, the majority of people are against. Removing Sunday as a different day is a significant shift in social structure. So the government is talking about volunteering. But the government's voluntary reform is, in reality, a forced reform, because that's how the market works, that if one store stays open on Sunday, then probably the neighboring store must also be open on Sunday, when it has the opportunity. My question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State believes that the government's coercive reform, with extensive changes in the social structure across the will of the people and the majority of the population – with enormous consequences, as we have heard – is in line with the value-conservative approach on which the government is building its policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e255	First of all, it's not up to me to admit that a majority of the Storting is necessarily against it. It remains to be seen when we come to Stortinget with the matter, how it will be expressed. I am very concerned that we should have equal treatment in our society, and today there is discrimination. That is why the government has addressed this issue and wants to open up to a moderate reform development in this area. In the proposal that we intend to send to the hearing, we will still keep some of the special holidays screened. I believe that this is a good basis for opening up to get rid of the discrimination that is there. I register that many people take advantage of these possibilities. I can't believe that it's square meters size or being a tourist resort that's supposed to be the basis for keeping the rest day sacred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e262	Arild Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e265	It is obvious that the government in the case of Sunday-open shops has confused the term ‘trafficking’ with ‘trafficking’, because although the government refuses to follow the effects of Sunday-opening, we know a lot about how this will affect the lives of people. We hear it from employees at the shops, who fear that they will be forced to work. We hear it from shopkeepers, who fear closures because they feel compelled to keep open. And we hear it from the volunteer, who fears the activity. The last is that even single parents want to get involved in this, because as a companion recently said, what's the point for me to have time off on Wednesday when my kids are free on Sunday? Many weeks have passed since the government announced that they would send this matter to the hearing, but since then we have neither seen nor heard anything. Does that mean that the matter is so delayed that the government realizes that right-wing policy does not tolerate the meeting with everyday life of people?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e274	The government is working on this proposal, and it will be sent to the hearing in the near future. It's not like it's going to be a 'trafficking'. That's putting things all on your head. I just said that we're opening up so shopkeepers and those of us who want to shop on a Sunday get freedom of choice. There is no requirement that you keep the shops open, or that you have to shop. It is also the case today that a substantial part of the shops have actually been open on Sundays, as I have already mentioned, if one looks at the tourist sites. And then you like some tourist places, for example. in the mountains. I spend part of my time at Beitostølen, and there can be a shop on the first day of Pentecost, one can shop every Sunday, and one can shop at both shops that sell sports equipment and shops that sell food. But driving one down into the village, 20 minutes down to the Payernes, everything is closed. I record that the policy of the previous government has been that one should limit this opportunity to act. Then there is one to contribute to discrimination, which we want to clean up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e285	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e289	This is more and more evidence of a rather remarkable reform. It's a reform where it's hard to say something about the consequences, but where you don't want to figure out the consequences either. It is a reform that almost nobody wants – not the 370,000 employees, not the trading community, not the voluntary organisations, not the Church. What we're left with then is really pure ideology, as far as I can understand. Now there are some reflections about the market ideology of the government as well. The Minister of Education of the Council of State warned in an article that ‘liberalism is to colonize all spheres of life’, saying that ‘conservatives have neglected the cultural critique’ and that it ‘has paved the way for commercialisation and market thinking in areas where it does not belong’. [[...]] There are also interesting considerations in relation to the issue of Sunday open shops. When this now seems like a pure ideology, how does the Council of State view the kind of thinking that her colleague expresses, in relation to the question of open shops on Sundays?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e298	First of all, I said in a previous post that it is possible that it is those who believe that this will have major consequences. That's what's meant when you send something out to the hearing, to get feedback on what actually had to be negative. Then the government will assess it when we will conclude on this matter. Moreover, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the undersigned agree with most of the assessments on how far to go in order to liberalise the society in which we live. We're behind this point in the Sundvolden statement, and we're prepared to help do this. I repeat, there is no force for the shops to keep Sunday open, that is an opportunity. There is also an opportunity for each of us to make the necessary choices, and to be able to act on Sunday if we need anything. For me, it is a great paradox that today there is a great discrimination between those who have the opportunity to have the open, especially shops that sell goods, the different places that sell flowers, etc., and those who may live by it, but have no reason for it. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e307	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e310	There are a number of shops that have Sunday soup today, depending on the square meter size, the range of products and the number of tourists in the municipality. But it is clear that having a more general opening would obviously have an impact on important issues such as employment, shop structure, working life, etc. So I understand that a lot of representatives here are asking for knowledge. But then I'm going to argue that the best way to get knowledge is hardly to start the Minister of Culture writing a long story. It's actually having experience. I think that many people in this room could – and should – settle down on what is, of course, the best way to solve this, simply to let the municipalities decide and have that debate in the different municipal authorities in this country and not in this room. Then some will keep open, and others will keep closed. And then we can have actual experiences out there. Does the Minister for Culture agree with that assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e315	Of course, the government has also assessed that possibility, but we have now promoted our proposal because we want through the law to open up opportunities for more to be open on Sundays. But we have made certain exceptions. I have registered that the Left's proposal is to let the municipalities decide this. Then it has to be up to Stortinget when the government has had this out at the hearing and takes into account and evaluates the hearing opinions that are coming. Before the government concludes in the matter, we will consider what we might send to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e320	We move on to the next main question, which is from Per Olaf Lunstieg. While Lundtigen is on his way up to the pulpit, the president will stress the importance of sticking to the time of speech. We have a rather tight form, and if speaking time is not kept, we're going to have to run a bit tougher on how many follow-up questions we don't have, and none of us want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e325	It's a question to the Council of State Eriksson. Permanent and temporary employment are the two types of employment regulated by the Working Environment Act. The number of manning enterprises, companies that hire workers for work in the service of others, is increasing. An increasing number of people are getting employment contracts with such recruitment agencies. Manning enterprises are governed by the Working Environment Act § 14-12, in particular paragraph 1, and ‘Rental from activities for the purpose of renting’. [[employee]] My simple question and the purpose of the whole question is: Will the Council of State decide whether this should be the case in Norwegian working life: permanent employment without pay between assignments?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e336	What the queryer is addressing is correct. It is well regulated in the Working Environment Act. Manning enterprises and staff rentals are defined by law. Then it's up to the parties to settle the payroll and determine the formation of wages. I think it would be wrong for a government council to go in and decide how to determine the pay conditions in the industry today, as long as one relates to the regulations that are. I believe that today's regulations are satisfactory and work well. Then I also record that the manning industry is quite complex. Many manning companies are serious, good manning companies. Most people have tidy and good relationships, and many also have fixed-paid employment. Some also have a fixed salary between assignments. This varies greatly between companies, and I believe that individual companies should still have freedom within a safe regulatory framework in the law to define the employment contracts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e345	It is correct that it is regulated in the law, so it is in the Working Environment Act § 14-12, in particular paragraph 1, where it says: ‘The hiring of workers from activities for the purpose of renting is permitted to the extent that temporary employment can be agreed under the first paragraph of Section 14-9.’ It's regulated, but it creates a number of conflicts and ambiguities. So far, it has been unnecessary to clarify what is fixed-term employment, but it will now be necessary. With permanent employment, people understand most specific hours, rights and obligations to carry out a particular job with a corresponding job size and salary. Here we have employment contracts that neither determine the working time, the size of the job nor the right and obligation to carry out a particular job. Can the Council of State consider such contracts to be fixed employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e357	Yes, I mean they are, because in the manning industry – if you have a serious crew company – working hours may vary. The law makes demands on how much you can work, but you can be hired out to company A, such as: may have a different working time from that of enterprise B. It may vary according to the nature of the work, the tasks of the work and what needs to be done, including: renting in to get away from peaks. I also know that there are many manning companies that have separate departments with plumbers, carpenters and masons – for various tasks. It is well regulated, and I see no need today to change the legislation we have in the Working Environment Act in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e364	There will be follow-up questions – first Liv Signe Navarsete.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e368	The Council of State has confirmed, through the previous reply to the representative of Lundteigen, previous responses to the Storting that the Council of State does not wish to give a content to the topic of permanent inclusion in the Working Environment Act. We should notice that. Parts of Norwegian working life are undergoing dramatic change as a result of weak pay and working conditions under the EEA Agreement. We import legislation prepared by bureaucrats and lobbyists in Brussels, and it undermines the Norwegian People's Government. The free flow of an almost complete supply of cheap labour pushes Norwegian workers out of work. Too get into this house wanting to get that fact out. The scope of the preferred recruitment form for the manning industry, fixed addition without pay between assignments – developed and defended publicly by the NHO Service – is at a time when the supply of cheap labour is so great. Will the Council of State defend the ability of staffing agencies to attract our young people to such unemployment contracts – without a fixed salary and without pay between jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e377	Firstly, I register that the representative Navarsete also put in a government that implemented EEA legislation. Secondly, as far as the manning industry is concerned, I believe it is wrong – with the constitutional system we have, and how power conditions in Norway are set up – that a government council should go into the law and define what is permanent employment or not to interpret and judge the law. What I have said in the past – I stand firm and believe it is right – is that it is the courts that have to decide on these kinds of questions, it is the task of the courts to determine what is involved and how the law should be understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e386	Fredric Holen Bjørdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e389	The Council of State does not take this seriously. So-called fixed addition without a guaranteed salary is a mishap in Norwegian working life. It's spreading more and more, and we're getting what looks like the layman industry. This is nothing but the camouflage of repeated temporary additions, and in reality, no such worker is stronger than a ringwager. There is a need for tightening up, and here there is a need for clarification. This practice challenges the purpose paragraph of the Work Environment Act on safe conditions of insertion, and I think it is somewhat irresponsible to leave this to the courts. How does the Council of State feel that a newly-exploited 20-year-old in a low-level staffing industry, where the government is still going to eliminate collective redress, is going to be able to dare or afford to sue an employer to find out if this is contrary to the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e394	To the questioner: This government practises the same law as the previous government did. If it was like this that this is a layman's society, which is used as rhetoric, my question goes in return: why didn't the last government change that law? Why was it permitted to have the legislation and practice, which is actually in force today, which also applied in 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 and beyond in time? It's a rhetorical way of acquiring this. I expect that the representative does not believe that a State Council should go around and review the courts regarding how the law and law should be interpreted. I actually think we're going to stand firm and relate to the principle of power distribution. If the social partners – we have tripartite cooperation – believe that there are uncertainties in the law in this area, then it is also the responsibility of the parties to try it out. I am concerned that we are going to have a clean and orderly relationship, and we have that in today's law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e401	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e404	One can always believe that regular employment in a normal job is the best, but every day there are thousands of employees who work in the agency, who step in at very short notice to ensure that there are some health workers present, who take the jobs that unfortunately there are no others to take. Then they solve a very important societal mission. One should balance all the time, but what I feel is that the main questioner is that these are people who are permanently employed, and who have days when they don't get paid. When the Temporary Agency Directive was introduced, it was an opening to grant a non-discrimination exemption, that you, as a tenant, should have equal pay to the other employees of the company. If you are a permanent employee, you can get a guarantee payment and get a salary even if you do not have a job, but then it must also be accepted that the salary is slightly lower than for those who work in the company. Is there a system that the Council of State wants to look at?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e409	The Council of State has already looked at that mechanism, and it is quite right that the representative, Mr Ropstad, points out in relation to the derogation provided for in the Temporary Agency Directive. Those who are on the job under the main provisions of the Temporary Agency Directive must comply with the pay and working conditions of the enterprise in which they are on the job. So they have to deal with the tariffs and the pay terms that are there. I think it's important to look at the exception. I think it's important to do that, and the government has already started working on it. We have already notified it in the cases submitted to the Stortinget on 5 and 12 December respectively. We have said that we aim to apply the derogation in a correct and good way, and that we should implement it at the same time as the other changes in the Working Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e416	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e419	The very situation in the manning industry was the starting point for the introduction of collective redress as one of several means of combating social dumping. The government is now proposing to remove it on the grounds that it is worrying that trade unions can raise a case without necessarily wanting to do so by the individual employee who is exposed. I wonder if the Council of State believes it is more important to protect vulnerable workers from collective agreements and arrangements than against unprofessional employers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e424	I believe it is important to ensure health, environmental and safety for Norwegian workers. I believe it is important to have a good, safe framework around Norwegian working life, and that Norwegian workers should feel safe at work. At the same time, I am in principle opposed to privatising the Labour Inspectorate's way of running a job through collective redress. I'm basically against it. I believe that in principle it is objectionable, and there were also strong legal objections to collective redress. Collective legal proceedings have also not been used since it was introduced, only once in a case that was rejected in court because it was not allowed to be used in that type of case. I believe it is important to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate. Their main task is to ensure that health, environment and safety are maintained for Norwegian workers in Norwegian workplaces. They have the law to deal with, which is given by the Stortinget, and I believe that there is a better way to follow it up than by collective redress. That is why we have withdrawn the matter, which we also announced before the elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e432	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e435	I do not think anyone in this Chamber is against the manning industry or does not understand the need for labour hire, at least of all the red-green parties that introduced the EU agency directive in Norway. The manpower industry is important, but it is clear that he should play an additional role in the labour market and offer flexibility. The government has now proposed changes to the Work Environment Act. One of the changes is about the general aspect of temporary additions. In the hearings we have carried out here at Stortinget, among others. The crew industry expressed their dissatisfaction with some of this, and they want to be treated in a non-discriminatory way. Then a reflector can reflect on what it's an expression for. But my question to the Council of State is: does he believe that giving a general access to temporary additions could reduce the need for labour input for some enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e442	It's a very difficult question to answer. General temporary access in Norwegian working life has not been tried. There is no experience of this, and it is difficult to draw a bastant conclusion as to what it will be like before you have experienced it in practice. I think there will still be a need for a lot of rent in connection with large projects, large companies that have long-term projects. The general access to which we have opened up in the Working Environment Act is mainly about creating an arena, a springboard for all those who are outside the labour force, to try within a limited period of time. That proposal will not help the major contractors involved in a four-year project and will take off major peaks. Then, with a four-year rule, the temporary employment legislation, which we already have today, will be what will benefit the companies most, so that they have enough labour to take away the tasks they face.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e449	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e452	I think it is reasonable that we also ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs about something. I also think it is reasonable that we take up the events that have happened quite close to us in the last few days, because this weekend Denmark was hit by terror. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was present at the Memorial. I expect that his job there, under that marking, was to represent us all, and I felt that he did it. On 16 February, the Grand President also sent a letter to the President of the People's Party expressing the importance of standing together, of lifting democracy and freedom of expression, and showing that we express our compassion. I also felt that the Grandfather represented us all in his letter. It's important to stick together when we meet extremism. Norway has felt the same way in the past. Helle Thorning-Schmidt said in his speech, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs was present: ‘It is not a fight with Muslims and non-Muslims. It is a struggle between values based on freedom for the individual and a dark ideology." What values does the Minister of Foreign Affairs think we should use when discussing what has happened in Denmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e464	The events and terrors in Copenhagen merge into the range of terrors we have experienced both in Europe and in other parts of the world. It affects children, it affects minorities, and it's a grotesque and highly speculated form of terror we're facing. I fully agree with Denmark's Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt when she stresses that this is a timely reminder that we must stand up for the values on which we have built our open societies. It's tolerance, it's freedom of expression, it's freedom of speech, it's freedom of the press, it's tolerance for others to express opinions that you don't agree with, and then you can make your counter-arguments. It is also the case that those who come to Europe to our societies, in many ways, accept a contract that means that here we have free dissent. It's the hub, among other things, in our societies. What we have also seen, which worries me very much, is that children have now been attacked by terrorists and extremists. It's actually something completely new. The attack at the school in Peshawar, where over 130 children were killed in a bestial way before Christmas, was a reminder, and Boko Haram's mercenaries, not only in Nigeria, but now in Cameroon and Niger, where young schoolgirls, who have as their only desire to learn to read and write, are taken prisoner and exploited sexually. This is not something we can do indifferent to. The work now being carried out internationally, and which we must also fully support, to combat terrorism and extremism on a broad scale, is absolutely crucial in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e475	I'm probably sharing all the thoughts that the Minister of Foreign Affairs put forward today. It's important to say that you have to fight the extremes, that you have to fight for the values that we stand for, but also that there is not a struggle between religions that we now see. In today’s VG, a former representative of one of the government parties says that these are Islamic murders, and that even others must be killed before one understands that this ‘applies to the paralysis and the growing indulgence of pressure from various Islamic press groups’. He has also received support for being a comprehensive concept, from the staging representatives who have now been elected to this room. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that the concept of Islamic murders and snipeslamization is a comprehensive concept of meeting the discussion that we now have before us?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e484	I think the representative Skei Grande and I use the terms that we think are right to describe what we are now facing, and I agree with the considerations that the representative made in his first post, about the importance of protecting freedom of expression and about tolerance. So now we see that there is an abuse of religion among extremists, violent and terrorists. This is not an unknown phenomenon up through history. There have been others who have abused other religions in the past — with regard to witch burning and other types of activity, religion has been abused. When you shout Islamic words and expressions at the moment you commit cruel acts of terror, it's the abuse of religion, the abuse of Islam.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e493	It opens for follow-up questions – first Iselin Nybø.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e496	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Culture, because after the last events in Europe, I think we can all agree that dialogue between religious communities is important. We saw the same thing back in 2006, when we had this caricature fight. There we saw that here in Norway we were able to have a good dialogue between the religious communities. While the imams in Denmark whipped up the mood and went down to the Middle East, our imams and our bishops had a completely different approach. They talked, they had good dialogue, they traveled down to the Middle East to calm the muddles. What does the Council of State see that she can do to ensure that we have good dialogue between the religious communities further now in the demanding time in which we stand?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e501	In fact, there is a great deal of work to be done in dialogue around our society. The former dialogue forums that were subject to the churches have today been very much involved in this which has to do with the Cooperation Council for Creeding and Living Societies around. I've been to visit several of these environments, I've been to Sarpsborg, I've been to Tromsø, and I was in Stavanger a few weeks ago. It's a big activity, and I think it's very important. It's underestimated what dialogue really means. Getting together, learning to understand each other's religions, helping to increase tolerance and respect for each other, and it's a prerequisite for us to be able to live in peace with each other that we actually also respect each other's beliefs and beliefs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e507	Marit Nybakk – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e510	Initially, my question was meant for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but I think the Minister of Culture can stay standing. Let me first say that it is important that we stand up for the freedom of assembly, for democracy, for freedom of expression, that we do not celebrate this. It's important that we fight terrorism internationally, and that's where the Foreign Minister does a good job, there's a lot of people doing a good job. But then we have a job to do in our own neighborhoods. We have a job to do in school to prevent radicalisation, prevent extremism. Not least in the big cities, it's about the neighborhoods of the city we're in now, and in other cities. How will the Minister of Culture in the Government work to improve the prevention of extremism and radicalisation in our neighbourhoods? It also has to be about inclusion, it has to be about participation, and it has to be about feeling taken seriously even if you have a different religion and a different culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e517	First of all, I think it is important that we agree that a prerequisite for freedom of religion is, in fact, freedom of expression. It must be at the bottom. We can't have a society where there's going to be a sense of self-esteem towards the press, or that one should prevent it from being possible to make statements. It may not be that the social debate cannot develop – it is incredibly important – but we must learn to have tolerance for each other’s stand, especially in terms of beliefs and beliefs. We have funds in our department that are distributed to the Dialogue Forum. In fact, we also have several meetings this year with the Council of the Cooperation Council for the Doctrine of Faith and Life, where these differing views are discussed. I've been visiting some of these meetings with the different institutions and also the different religious communities. I think it's incredibly important that transparency is created for you to have room to discuss this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e524	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e527	My supplementary question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. After the tragic events we've seen in Paris and Copenhagen, you can't escape the fact that a particular group is attacked just because you have the ethnicity or the belief you have, the Jews in Europe. There is nothing new about Paris or Copenhagen, the same has been the case in Brussels and Toulouse, and we also see flows in other countries, perhaps going a little east, where this is also infiltrated in pure party politics. So my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who meets many of his colleagues in many contexts, is: How will we follow up on the Norwegian side, so that it is safe to be Jewish in Europe in 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e534	A number of actions from the PST have been implemented in recent days to ensure, inter alia, that: The Mosaic Religious Society in Oslo, Kindergarten — and other security measures. But what the representative addresses is a much broader question. It's frightening that in the 21st century we now see an emergence of an antisemitism that we haven't seen in many decades. It's only a few weeks since Auschwitz-Birkenau marked that six million Jews were gassed in the heels of Hitler and the Nazis during World War II, and then one sees the blossoming of some of the same kinds of attitudes. This must be put back on with a hard-on. The first thing I did when I came to Copenhagen was to visit the synagogue, put down flowers, and I had a conversation with Melchior. From the Norwegian authorities, it will be a clear priority in the years to come to contribute to an international alliance against growth in anti-semitism.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e539	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e542	Increasing antisemitism is a major problem – and also the fact that one sees Jewish targets being attacked, both in Paris and in Copenhagen. I think it's very important – as some people have been involved here – both to focus on values that gather us together, and to avoid this becoming a struggle between religions, and also to contribute to increased dialogue between religious communities. It is also important that Norwegian politicians are concerned about contributing to conditions that may be unfortunate. Some of the things that play a little bit on the situation that has now happened are when the spokespersons of one of the government parties come up with statements about both Muslims and Norwegian politicians and their relationship with the State of Israel. One of them is Erlend Wiborg, who believes that former Prime Minister from Right, Kåre Willoch, contributes to Jewish hatred. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs view the kind of statements that have come from Norwegian politicians in recent days?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e551	First, I would like to agree entirely with the representative Arnstad that interreligious dialogue is more important than ever, that religious leaders talk together and understand each other. Then it's important that religious leaders also send clear signals that what you're experiencing now, you take a great distance from it. As politicians, we have a responsibility now to underline the values that gather us and that we agree on – freedom of expression, freedom of religion, this with tolerance, tolerance for those who are different, and tolerance for those who belong to religions other than ourselves. It's an abuse of religion we're seeing now. You push religion in front of you and claim it as the cause of terrorist acts, extremist acts. This creates a lot of hurt and hurt feelings for those who belong to the religions that are pushed in front of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e560	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e563	We all defend freedom of expression, but it is also easier for those who now spread conspiracy theories about, for example. Jews – all the collective guilt for individual acts of terrorism thrown at Muslims. In Norway, we experienced a violent act of terrorism, which is directed at, among other things. democracy and equality, i.e. women. All of this often spreads on some closed channels, but some say it out loud. It has, among other things, representatives of one government party have now done so. I think that the Foreign Minister has no choice but to answer whether we do not all have a responsibility to object to these conspiracy theories, these misstatements. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs contribute his response to these false claims, which also come from representatives of the government parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e571	I think I've been crystal clear in what I've said about freedom of expression, about freedom of belief and religion and about hitting hard on what's about intolerance. On the previous question, I was not allowed to answer this with the accusations against Willoch, which I think are groundless. Instead of polarising the debate further, I think we should stand up for the values that gather us. But everyone has a responsibility — both religious leaders and political leaders — to emphasize what gathers us together, and what principles are the basis for our society. We stand for openness. If there are people in the Norwegian social debate who want to limit this, it is contrary to what is the foundation of our society. We tolerate hearing arguments and opinions that we disagree with. That gives us an opportunity to argue against. Conspiracy theories – however much I dislike them – it's okay to get on the table, so we can hit it hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e580	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e583	My question goes to the Minister of Labour. The aim of the reform was to achieve lower barriers to work for those who are able to do it. The premise that SV joined the reform was that no one should lose, and that was also the starting point for the bulk of the population behind the reform. People were not to lose social security, nor were people to lose housing. Now both of these things happen. The Minister of Labour is responsible for some of the most important areas of people's lives. It is the basis for people’s security that is managed in the welfare state, and in particular it is to see the Minister’s response to Tønsberg’s magazine on 7 February this year that ‘unfair reform has nothing to do with today’s government’s policy’. I would like to remind you that today's government is responsible for today's budget and that it is today's government that is responsible for the transitional arrangements, and it is today's government that is also responsible for funds for housing support or cuts in it. SV is involved in finding solutions, and we have also promoted more in the last round of the budget, but we are wondering about that discharge and want a clarity on that. I wonder: does the Council see its responsibility in the matter, and will he do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e594	Thank you for the question. Yes, the Council of State sees its responsibility in the matter. The Council of State has shown responsibility, and the government has shown responsibility, and therefore a transitional arrangement was introduced to ensure that over 50 000 people did not receive a significant tax increase from one day to the next. That would have been the case if this transitional arrangement had not been implemented – as the government and I took responsibility for it and presented it, and I am pleased that a total increase was supported and adopted. I am not aware of the premise that SV in its time supported the unpremeditated reform, but once again: what is quite clear in the proposition put forward by the government at that time was to compensate for the tax on it being taxed as a salary – it was one of the premises of a new disability, that it should be easier to combine work and disability – and that it should be compensated for the gross income up to 15 p.m. But it is also clear that someone would then get a little worse out, and someone would get out better. But most would get out better, and so does today, which means that this reform is not austerity reform, but a defamation that we spend more money on in the future. And with that transitional arrangement, there are also many thousands who didn't get an increased tax increase. I'm willing to sit down and find solutions, and I've signaled that from this pulpit – still based on the premises that were in the premise reform. I didn't say we didn't take responsibility. What I have said is that this reform was presented by the previous government. This reform was adopted by the previous enlargement in 2011, with effect from 1 January 2015. We've been dealing with that. Any government must take account of the decision of the Storting. Then we've seen that there have been some unintended effects, and we've been trying to correct that transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e603	I'm glad the Council of State is open to the fact that there have been unintended effects. I wonder what the Council of State will do to ensure that the effects of the reform are adequately monitored and that all information on how it works for the individual receiving disability benefit today is brought to the table. Not least, I wonder what the Council of State is going to do to remedy the unsustainable situation in which the country's atrocities have ended. I would like to add that I am pleased to meet you in terms of future solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e608	I do not share the view that there is an unsustainable situation in which all the people of the country have come into disrepute. When eight out of ten disabled people come out better, I don't think there's an unsustainable situation. I think that's a good situation. It shows that there is a reform that works well and that makes it easier to combine work and retirement. This applies to the tax restriction rule that has been repealed. I have a question back. It's a total expansion that has said that you want to have the same tax system. Is it that way to understand that SV and other parties do not want this to be taxed as remuneration but to keep the tax restriction rule? It's okay to get a signal on this from Stortinget. Is it so to understand that the tax limitation rule applies to some, but not to all? It's okay to get a signal on it too, because then we're talking about two different tax systems in the disability insurance system. It's never been the intention or the premise of the Big One that you should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e615	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e618	I record that the minister has difficulty taking responsibility for what is now happening, but one thing the minister has to take responsibility for, and as the Stortinget has not decided, is to remove the shielding of half-life adjustments for the disabled, when they are going over to retirement. Such an old-age pension system is now, you have to be able to work longer to zero the effect of your lifestyle adjustment, but if you've had a disability, you can't work anymore. When SV put in government, we got in place at least half a shielding, so that those who had had had a disability should not lose that much when they were going over for an old-age pension. So it's going to be 6 billion. kr, fully phased in, to be taken from underage pensioners and given to the rich country. Can the Council explain why it is right that pensioners who have previously been disabled should receive a lower pension now than the original decision of the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e625	This is a debate that we have had in Stortinget in the past. But let me also remind you that Stortinget has made a decision to keep that shielding off for a while. When we presented this proposal in the state budget in its time, I thought – subject to my not remembering errors – that the principle is still the same, that it is right that it should not be the case that those who work for them are 67 years old can have a lower age pension than those who are dissatisfied with, for example. 65 years of age and disabled for two years until they are 67 years of age. I think that is a bad principle. At the same time, it is important to ensure that you have a good disability coverage and a good pension system. I believe that the rules we have today in this area are in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e632	Fredric Holen Bjørdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e635	Prime Minister Erna Solberg said that the government is taking the noise for what was decided in 2011. It is very different from what the Council of State Eriksson said to Tønsbergs Blade on 7 February, that the reform has nothing to do with the policy of today's government. In this context, I would like to remind you that this reform was unanimous, and that the Council of State has voluntarily entered into a government that is in the process of unbridled reform. But then I want to say that the signal that the Council of State comes with today's Question Time is positive and constructive, and I understand that he is willing to enter into a dialogue. That's why I want to ask if we can establish that the Council of State has now changed its opinion once and for all. He wants to take responsibility for the reform, but will he also let us put forward a policy that will give them additional burdens, as outlined in the 2015 state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e643	That question has already been answered three times in this questionnaire. I record that there are some people who choose to use Tønsberg's Blade as a witness of truth rather than what the Council of State stands in this room and says. I had hoped that the magnification representatives would deal with what was said in the hall. What I have said is that it was not this government that presented the reform. It was the previous government that presented the reform. Any government must implement the proposals and decisions taken by the Storting. That's what this government is doing. I have said that we take responsibility for the decisions that have been taken. That is why we have also made a transitional arrangement that was not part of that reform. Me and the government will pursue a policy that we believe is for the best and for the benefit of most people, and will reserve the opportunity to come back to the Stortinge with the proposals we think are right, at the times they should come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e650	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e653	There are a lot of people who are concerned about this. It is important, and then it is important that we have a debate on the right basis. There was consensus when one went into this reform, that one should have a change. It was then said from all sides that there was no guarantee that no one could lose. It's essential to get there, so we can have a proper discussion. Any change in a system will mean a change, not a status qou. Then the logical answer is that there will be someone who will be able to lose, and someone who will be able to win. What's the question, is how much they lose, those who lose. I would ask the Council of State to group those who lose: more than NOK 6000, NOK 6000 to NOK 12 000 to NOK 18 000, NOK 18 000 to NOK 24 000 and over NOK 24 000 per year, and tell us what is the reason they lose, so that we can get an informed debate further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e660	I thank you for the question and for the invitation from the representative of Lundteg. I want to do my utmost to bring out the numbers and the groupings that are wanted. At the same time, let me say that I fully agree with Mr Lundtegen that when you present a reform that involves change, that means change, that doesn't mean that you're in a rest position and you keep everything that's in the old system. Of those who lose, it is, as I explained in the previous answer, people with occupational pensions, high debts, maybe combined with labour income, and spouse with high income. How does this turn out 100 pst? We don't know until we get a tax settlement. Among other things, many of these are now going to get half taxes in one month, which they haven't gotten in the past. At the same time, there will be other changes in the combination of work. Let me finally say that all the minimum pensioners, with the minimum benefit, with debts come out better than they did in the old system.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e669	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e672	My question goes to the Minister of Culture. ‘A responsible gambling policy that contributes to limiting the risk of gambling problems must be the objective of Norwegian gambling policy. Over 100,000 Norwegians have a problematic relationship with gambling. This affects not only the player himself, but also family, friends and employers.» This could have been obtained from the Work Party application. It's not. I quoted from a letter to the members of the Family and Culture Committee, Oslo, on 14 January 2015, signed important organisations that contribute to providing people with quality of life and meaning, security and joy of life. I could mention more, but I mention organisations: Norwegian Sports Association, Norwegian Music Council, Rescue Company, Norwegian Blind Federation, Norwegian People's Aid, Cancer Association, Red Cross, Red Child, Norwegian Theatre Council, Blue Cross, LNU, MFO, National Public Health Association, Salvation Army, Actis and the Norwegian Music Corps. The government of Stoltenberg took several initiatives and actions in its time to prevent aggressive advertising of illegal games in Norway directed at the Norwegian gaming market. The Lottery Authority called for action in its 2014 report. My question is: What has the government done since 2013 to prevent aggressive marketing by foreign gambling companies on the Norwegian market?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e686	As the representative is aware, it is illegal for foreign companies to market these games in Norway. We have followed up that matter, in exactly the same way that the Stoltenberg government did in its time, when they sat in government. These are demanding issues that you have to follow up, and we work every day to see if there is anything more we could do to prevent it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e691	I thank you for your answer. Something unclear. A little concrete. Foreign gambling companies are currently preparing and implementing advertising to Norwegian users. Large funds are invested in draining the market on which Norsk Tipping controls well and has good control. Norwegian Typing also contributes with large sums of money back and is considered to be an important social actor throughout Norway. At best, foreign gaming companies will contribute sponsoring funds. In its eagerness to change the Norwegian game policy, we have seen several initiatives to liberalise the market. How will the government take control of such an open and liberalized market?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e696	As the representative is also familiar with, the Sundvolden statement states that we will consider opening up private lotteries on the outside of Norsk Typing. The Sundvolden Declaration also states that we will address the issue of a licence scheme for foreign gambling to see if it is possible to combine social policy considerations and the increased total proceeds of volunteering within the framework of the EEA Agreement. We've got an interim report on that. The economic consequences are so clear that I see that it will be almost impossible to go on with it. There will be considerable consequences for those who are addicted to gambling – we have asked for an additional report now, to check both criminal and social policy – but, in the worst case, there will be a very large loss of volunteering in Norway, some 720 million. kr, which we will strongly warn against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e703	It opens for follow-up questions – Sonja Mandt.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e706	We record that the government and the government are most concerned about liberalizing to get more games. At yesterday's meeting, Norwegian Tipping told us that more than 700,000 players are banned in the controlled legal market today. It's the last year a double of people who have been quarantined because they've played for and lost more than NOK 10 000. One can only know what it looks like in the illegal market, where no one looks at anyone in the cards, and no one can stop if it goes out of control. Why would the Council of State take the tool she has to regulate and control what Norsk Typing has, and be willing to let people play even more without borders, without card and without control?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e712	As I have said, the government has assessed two aspects. One thing we have had a wide-ranging consultation. This is about changing the lottery code, and it's about opening up an opportunity to have lotteries on the outside of Norsk Typing. The basis for this is very well known to the representative. It is because the previous government helped to open up the lottery on the outside, with an unclear code, which has resulted in a letter from the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, which last year opened a case against the Ministry of Culture following a complaint from a lottery that experienced discrimination against the red-green government. I have received a very clear request from ESA that we should sort this out, and we are about to do so. That is why we have proposed legislation, so that it is actually non-discrimination, so it is not possible to challenge this exclusive model that everyone is calling for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e717	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e729	The President will inform the representatives that there are currently no changes to the list of questions drawn up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e736	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In the Question Time of 12 November 2014, the Council of State said that building Åland station in large planned residential areas south of Oslo ‘would delay the entire Follobane project for many years and cost it with billions of dollars’. Norconsult has recently investigated the technical solutions and costs of the Eastern Plan project. The conclusion is that it can be carried out as an additional work without delay for the Folloban and that costs are estimated at 1.4 billion. kr. On this basis, will the Council of State initiate an independent investigation of the Åland station?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e750	This station, which we have discussed before, is a station like the then government, under Jens Stoltenberg's leadership, did not choose to continue after making thorough assessments of it. The last three government parties thought this was not a good idea, although it seems to be smart, because one wants to make it possible for more people to live in this region, and then it's important that one gets good collective solutions. But one made an overall assessment then, and we've also done that now when we say that it's not this Folloban tunnel with a station inside the mountain that necessarily is the good solution there. That is why one has a good cooperation between the Railway Agency and Router to look at how one should develop infrastructure for collectives in this area. And there's a sketched solution that we think takes care of the travelers in a potentially developed area far better, using today's Eastfold Railway, with several departures. Building public transport through the Router system is better than spending money building this tunnel. In addition, I note that yesterday's Evening Post, the Railway Agency also points out that there are several things Norconsult has not included in his investigation, which means that this is not an investigation that has received new, objective facts in itself. One has e.g. forget that a job has to be done with regard to the planning and building law. It's something that in itself takes a year, and it costs a lot of money. Many other elements were also mentioned in the Evening Post article. So my assessment is that, with the information we have today, there's no reason to reconsider your position. On the contrary, I would like to say that it is important that we continue the work we are already doing, investigating the infrastructure in and around Oslo, both on the state level and in cooperation with Router. I also note that the Labour Party's own representatives, both in the Transport Committee and elsewhere, also do not support the view that this is something that should be investigated. The representative Eirin Sund stated in the evening post a few months ago that the Workers' Party does not support this, and as late as today, the representative Svein Roald Hansen has been out saying that this proposal has no support in the Workers' Party. Then it becomes a little strange that I, as Minister of Transport, should start an investigation that does not even support the questioner's own party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e761	Thanks for the answer. I think it's important that the Storting and we, who are concerned about getting the greatest possible environmental benefit out of the big investment in Folloban, are able to get actual information based on when we're going to assess whether there's any reason to think about it again. What I have to ask is whether we are talking about the same project, because in what Norconsult has presented, which of course is a work they have done on behalf of developers – it is not my role to do well for everything in that investigation – is defined a particular project with sidings. One of these is also available at Holmestrand station, which is now being built for 900 million. kr, and at Lillestrøm station – for the Fly train. They have calculated this to consist of some extra exploding work of 400 million. kr, as a separate additional work, and accommodation for 1 billion. kr. This will not lead to delays in the project and does not mean many billion kroner in extra expenses. It is important to know whether the Council of State is based on a separate study of this that has now been carried out — with the new perspectives that have come in — and whether there is something that can be seen — in addition to the general reasoning.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e770	There is no new information in what Norconsult has come up with – in that case I have to get the new information that the representative of Bohemia believes is available. On the other hand, there have been thorough investigations of this, because it seems to be a good idea. We in the Progress Party have also said that we went into this because we thought it seemed exciting. But we see the consequences. It will delay the Folloban project and thus destroy public transport for many thousands of people in Akershus and in Eastfold, and we will see what extra costs it brings. This is money that we think would have been better spent by getting ahead e.g.. on an Ahus track or on a tunnel under Oslo – rather than building a station that will still be 1 to 2 km away from where people want to live. So there's so much distance from the station area to where you plan for people to live, that it's unlikely that so many people will use this station – compared to the other plans. That's why I'm holding on – until new information comes – to the decisions that a total increase also... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e777	I also thank you for the additional reply. When the Council of State now says that it will delay the project, it is important to know why it will delay the project more precisely than that it is said that it will be delayed for many years – when such a recognised consultancy agency as Norconsult investigates this and says that this can be done in parallel without delay. It is an important premise, and 1-2 km do not vote for, for example. Those who live on the Bjørndal today. They want to live several times closer to such a station. It also applies to those who want to live in an Åland town. I think this is a big question that concerns how Norway is going to deal with the fact that ESA now demands that we have to get much better air quality in Oslo. The Government shall provide an answer to that question by April. Here you have the opportunity to take a great deal of action to provide very environmentally friendly transport for 60,000 people – and to provide 6 000 access parking spaces. What worries me is that this is called too small and is not willing to go into this more seriously in the light of the new challenges we are now seeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e786	As I have repeated many times, this station area will be better served by the Eastfold Railway. So it's not about getting collective offers to those who might want to move here, but we can do it a better way than what Jan Bøhler argues for. By using today's Eastfold Railway, getting better bus services, investing through the Router system, and through the NSB and the Railway Agency, you will thus offer a better offer than you get if you go in and do something that the red-green government also rejected, which is what the Workers' Party has rejected today – with the exception of the representative Bøhler. I think it makes more sense to get ahead of Ahusbanen, get a tunnel under Oslo, get built out and maintain the railway we have many places, and make sure that several thousand travelers in Akershus and Eastfold get Follobanen in place faster. There's no doubt that the tunnel into this area is almost a mile, and people don't want to live right at the tunnel opening. There'll be a distance into the tunnel that makes it less attractive. There is a huge need for maintenance on existing railways to get more people to travel with it. We're in the process of doing all this, and I don't feel that there are any new arguments that suggest that we should change our strategy to get more people to travel collectively – by building this station.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e801	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Transport: ‘The national transport plan has a set of 350 million. kr to the pair Bjørset-Skei on E39 in Sogn and Fjordane. The plans are ready, and one had hoped for a start-up break in 2015. The plant is a transport year with over 3000 ÅDT. This means that the work will take longer than usual and that the funds earmarked for 2014–2017 will not be used in full. As a result, the road route may be delayed depending on the NTP plans. How will the State Council ensure progress as planned and when can the project expect start-up permissions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e810	This is a road map that I pay a lot of attention to, and which I think is important to get in place. This government, through its work, has ensured that work on a free E39 link across the West has received significant funds to start planning. We made trasé elections quickly after we took over, so we have good progress on the whole route as such. With regard to exactly the part of the E39 we are talking about here, the national transport plan, which was presented by the previous government – so I guess one knows it well – is based on the assumption that the start of the project will take place in the period 2014-2017, with a traffic opening after 2017. Thus, no concrete position has been taken in the NTP as to when plant start will take place during the four-year period. This will start to talk about a delay when we are 15–16 months within this large-scale period – that is, twice as long again – wrong. Nevertheless, we have said that this route is important. The majority of the Transport and Communications Committee – the members of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left – also pointed out the importance of achieving this project as quickly as possible in the setting up of the State budget. I agree that it is important to eliminate this bottleneck on the E39 in Sogn and Fjordane. Therefore, plant start-ups in 2016 will be very high priority in the preparation of the State budget for the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e823	I thank you for your answer. State Secretary Aarseth said at a press conference in Førde on 8 October last year that the progress of the road project Bjørset-Skei is going after the plans with start in 2016/2017, when the plans are ready. The State Secretary probably referred to the proposal in the 2014-2017 Action Programme, Route 4a Stavanger–Bergen–Ålesund with connections, from the State Road Administration. There it is starting in 2016. It is argued that the regulatory plan for the 11 km long parcel was extensive and complicated. One thought that the plan work took longer. It seemed to be a mistake. The cooperation between municipalities, landowners and the State Road Administration has been very good, and the regulatory plan was approved after a hearing and completed in 2013. According to Statens vägvesen everything is ready for start-up, and the thoroughfare can be started. A startup decision is only waiting for you, following the department leader in the State Road Administration. What will the Council of States do — when all is done? The Council of State has said that it should have increased the progress of the project in order to get this going as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e828	As I mentioned, that's exactly why, and because the majority parties in the Storting are very offensive about this, we're going to work to get it into next year's government budget, so that you get a quick start then. It is true that the government is offensive also in terms of transport in general and road. After taking over, we have accelerated work on at least 12 road projects as a result of additional appropriations or as a result of simplified planning processes. In addition, in the state budget that the Stortinget has now adopted, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have been given a boost in maintenance far ahead of the national transport plan, which means that for the first time in many decades we are reducing the maintenance run. We were also able to make a rag election on the E39, which the previous government failed to agree after several years. I appreciate being reminded that we are offensive, and I am happy that we can also show that we are delivering. I work hard to ensure that the Bjørset-Skei section enters the budget and can be realised from 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e837	I notice little about the offensive in Sogn and Fjordane. So far, I've noticed that it's cut on tunnel maintenance and cut on the E16. That's what's fasitating so far. And this project is over. It was planned in 2013. It's ready to start. There's only one signal waiting for from the state council. This will affect the whole progress of E39 through Sogn and Fjordane. It is a project where traffic is to be decommissioned at the same time as one is to be built out. If one does not start before 2016, those who have something to do with it say that one will not be able to use up the funds in the national transport plan for the period up to start in 2017, because one has to expect a slightly longer period of time for a project to be phased out while a major traffic is being phased out. That's the challenge, and the challenge for the Council of State is to give a signal this year so that one can start a complicated job that is very important to get done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e842	As I said, we're working to get the funds in place next year's budget. I believe that the representative of Navarsete, who was formerly Minister of Transport, knows very well that the Vegvesen cannot begin to build without money for it. Thus, the Vegvesen has never had more resources than they have now, not just because you have had a steady growth, but because you have had an extraordinary growth in the appropriations this year. On the maintenance side, the appropriations have increased by 67 pst. compared to the budget submitted by the red-greens for 2014. It's a strong growth in just one year. On the investment side, there has been a growth of about 20 pst. compared with the red-green proposal for the previous financial year. This makes it possible to realise more projects. In addition, we should remember that when it comes to meeting the national transport plan in the budget that the red-greens provided before they went off, it was about 22 pst. – far below what you had to have to pay 100 pst. in the course of four years. It was also what the Road Administration took into account when they made their action plan. But we've had a growth that allows you to get started faster than anyone else would.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e851	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Nearly 700,000 people in Norway live with a hearing impairment. Your Hearing Officer has surveyed the waiting time for, and adaptation of, hearing aids for hearing impaired persons at the country's hospital. Vestre Viken HF, Department Drammen, is one of the worst hospitals to get out, with waiting times in 2014 up to one year. What will the Council of State do to shorten the waiting time for this patient group in Norway in general, and in the Drammen in particular?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e858	The Free Hospital Choice website, which is the source for, inter alia: Your hearing shows that the expected waiting time for hearing tests in hospitals varies from four weeks at Kongsberg Hospital to 52 weeks at Drammen Hospital – both are hospitals in West Viken HF. The University Hospital in North Norway has as long waiting time as the Drammen, and Ålesund Hospital has the longest waiting time in the country with 66 weeks on February 15. Waiting times for Free Hospital Choice shall be reported as the maximum waiting time for the lowest priority patient. Often, priority will be given to children and young people. Health South-East has informed that the national priority guide is actively used by the West Viken health company. Some patients have to wait for the maximum time, but this happens after a medical evaluation. In the letter to the Department of 13 February, Health South-East reports that the waiting time in autumn 2014 was 21.8 days for patients under 60 years of age with unexplained hearing impairment that needed both audiograph and doctor. For patients over 70 years of age with a suspected hearing impairment or hearing aid need, the waiting time was 85.1 days if the patient only needed audiographs. There are significant variations in the expected waiting time for hearing examination/hearing test throughout the country, but also within one and the same health establishment. More extensive use of free hospital choice could help balance the differences between hospitals. The Pasien wire telephone provides patients with guidance on choice or change of treatment site. The patient may also ask the hospital for help to find more rapid treatment. For many patients, private contract specialists will be a good alternative to getting an hour faster. The Health Region has been asked in the 2015 mission paper to use these where it contributes to reducing waiting times in a professionally sound and cost-effective manner. I expect hospitals to actively assist patients in selecting treatment sites with a short waiting period. At present, there are short waiting times for hearing aids to be adapted to ear-nose-neck specialists who have agreements with Health South-East healthcare companies. In addition, all health regions have been asked to report back to the Ministry of Health by 1 April 2015 on their concrete actions to reduce unnecessary waiting. They have also been asked to enter into more agreements with contract specialists, and we are also now working on a significant matter of improving the free choice of hospitals to make it easier and more accessible to patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e877	I would like to thank you for a constructive answer. On the other hand, in addition to a long waiting period for the investigation and adaptation of hearing aids, many people experience poor follow-up once they have received the help. And if you're using HLF as a source again, it's said that about 200,000 people in the North have hearing aids, but that more people could have benefited much better from it. For example, HLF estimates: that as many as one in five hearing aids simply end up in the drawer because they are not trained. And it seems that there are challenges both to who should be responsible for such follow-up and to the competence of the municipality related to the day-to-day follow-up, for example. in the home services. What will the Minister of Health do to improve this situation as regards follow-up — after examination and adaptation of hearing aids?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e882	Firstly, we support – as I also see it as a broad political support in Stortinget – the job that is being done, among other things. under the auspices of the HLF through the Hearing Aid, which is a very simple and accessible mechanism for the easier adaptation and maintenance measures. Part of the contract specialists that I mentioned in my post also have good and accessible services for this, which is also an easy and accessible part of the specialist health service. One of the main tasks for us in the work on primary health communication is to highlight the importance of having good competence and multidisciplinary approach to those patients and users with chronic health challenges, and that will be the case here. So when it comes to this, we come to Stortinget with our own big message about a rise for the primary health service before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e889	I thank you again for the answer and look forward to the description and measures in the communication that the Council of State mentions. Because if you look at the demographic challenges in our country in the future, there is reason to assume that there will be more elderly people, who in turn will have the consequence that we need to strengthen the supply of the group that will need, among other things. hearing aids. And I think there's also a reason to look at the way we organize the offer to the group and think about new things in this area as well. One of the examples of a place you have thought about is the Hospital Telemark, where you have implemented a system of so-called ambulatory audiographs that travel around the municipalities, which means that patients do not need to visit the hospital, for example. In Skien. And I hear it works very well. The municipality is satisfied, and those who need adaptation and follow-up are satisfied. Will the Minister of Health also take the initiative to look at alternative organisations in order to improve the provision of hearing impaired persons in the notification to the Stortinget he himself has notified?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e896	I think it sounds like good and sensible ways to work, and this is also something we have as a general approach to the work we are doing: the importance of the use of specialists and expertise in the specialist health service, both by meeting patients and offering an offer locally and by working against the groups already working in the municipality, so that some of the tasks that you might not necessarily need a specialist to do can be solved by others who are already working in the community health service, so that you get an exchange of expertise. So this is something we're going to follow up and look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e905	‘The political leadership of the Ministry of Health and Welfare has stated that hospitals in Kirkenes, Hammerfest and Tynset should have surgical emergency preparedness. Will the State Council confirm this to health businesses by decision in business meetings?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e912	In the hospital speech in January, I presented three possible models of Norwegian hospital structure in the future: we can continue with today's structure and maintain emergency surgery even at the smallest hospitals for a few more years, or we can follow a traditional medical thinking that suggests that in-house medicine emergency functions must always be with emergency surgery. When the surgery is centralised for medical reasons, it will mean significantly less acute reception and thus significantly less hospitalisation. The third possibility is that we maintain our decentralised hospital structure, but adapt the emergency functions based on the population base. This will mean that we can maintain medical emergency preparedness in several hospitals near where many patients live. These three models will be highlighted in the National Health and Hospital Plan submitted to the Stortingen for the autumn. Until then, I have invited an open debate on the direction of development we will choose for the hospitals in the future. In the three models, the population base is one of several criteria that can be used to define different types of hospitals. It can never be the only criterion. In our country, we need to take into account the weather, distances and prosperity of thinking about emergency preparedness. The hospital at Tynset is an example of the fact that a great distance from other hospitals must have a bearing on the location of emergency facilities. Similarly, I have stated that because of the large distances, it will be totally impractical not to have emergency surgery in Kirkenes and Hammerfest. As for the representative Lundtigen's question as to whether I would like to confirm my views at the business meeting, I have not taken a decision as to whether there is a need for it. The majority will take the debate and draw conclusions on what the Norwegian hospital structure will look like in the future when they deal with the National Health and Hospital Plan. The estimates of the size could provide clear policy guidance for decisions on hospital structure and functional distribution at all levels of the specialist healthcare service. In conclusion, I would like to point out a fundamental relationship around ownership management that I perceive lies behind the question put by the representative Lundtigen. The provisions of the Health Business Act which limit ownership to the business meeting do not prevent me from expressing views in public spaces. It would be absurd for the Minister of Health and Care and others in political direction in the Ministry of Health and Welfare to have been cut off from thinking anything about the sector for which we are responsible, except in the business meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e927	It is important that the minister says what he means. I've never attacked it. The point is to have cleanliness in relation to the Health Business Act. We're talking about an important task here: emergency preparedness, and I'm glad that the Council of State now says that it's totally inappropriate not to have surgical emergency preparedness in Kirkenes, Hammerfest and Tynset. It's clarifying. Then I also expect that what State Secretary Erlandsen said in Østlandingen on 13 January 2015, is something the Council of State can agree to. In conclusion, the State Secretary says that what she has seen and heard is music in her ears, and she has full confidence that the hospital at Tynset operates professionally soundly, sailing if the requirements change. ‘They must continue to do so. The extent of emergency surgery they have seems right for the residents who are soaking up the hospital at Tynset, and for those who are being treated». Do the Councils agree with the opinion?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e940	I have nothing to postulate on the wise thinking of my State Secretary in this area. It is entirely in line with what we are thinking, namely that it is important to have some overall, clear leadership on how to develop the hospital structure in Norway. Then Norway is a country where one also has to take into account geography, distance, to weather, and then we have chosen to be clear on these three examples that we think exactly highlight that point. Then it's important to have a thoughtful plan for how to ensure good quality, make sure that there's an interesting job where one also recruits. These are questions that we're working on further, and we've set up our own group of professionals who have their daily life in clinical practice, just to make good professional input to achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e947	In the Minutes of the Hospital Inland HF of 22 January this year, Director Morten Lang-Ree, in the light of the statements of the Secretary of State, presented a clarification of the terms of reference of the Working Group, which reads as follows: ‘The acute surgery on Tynset is maintained as today in line with the leadership and justification of the Minister of Health as expressed in an interview with State Secretary Erlandsen of Eastlandingen on 13 January 2015.’» Now, we've been further clarified by the council of state at the Stockholm pulpit that it's totally impractical not to have surgical emergency preparedness on Tynset, in Kirkenes and Hammerfest. Is it not the Storting's will that such a decision should be taken at the Enterprise Meeting in order to create the necessary legal security, as called for in many cases on these issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e957	The Inland Hospital is working on a development plan that they are discussing in the board of directors. It is not that, since political management has not expressed a position in a business meeting, it is forbidden for health businesses to listen to what is being said and to take it into account in their assessments, whether it is said in the media, in the public debate or from the Parliament's pulpit. That would have been the case if the board of directors of the Inland Hospital had adopted the opposite, namely that they would not have emergency surgery on Tynset. Then it would have been close to me to include it in the business meeting in Health South-East and give leadership on the opposite. That's the only way I can instruct the Hospital of the Inland. They may have to include everything else in their assessments, and I think these have made a wise assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e966	‘A study from Bergen shows that patients with psychiatric disorders live less than the general population, and the main cause of overdose was cardiovascular disease. These figures are confirmed in other countries and show that people with severe psychiatric disorders die 15–20 years earlier than normal. Explanations are related both to lifestyle and to the under-use of other healthcare services. What will the Council of State do to ensure that auxiliaries take the challenges seriously, and assesses somatic health as part of the disease picture?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e973	I'm familiar with research that shows that people with severe mental disorders have a significantly shorter life span than others. Among other things, we know that untreated somatic disorders are the main cause of early death for this group. This tells me that we are still not good enough to ensure that a comprehensive and coordinated service provision for people with severe mental disorders. The great differences in life span concern me, and I can assure the representative that we take this very seriously in the messages, strategies and action plans that the government is now working on. In the forthcoming public health notification, the government addresses how the silo organisation of municipal health and care services is an obstacle to a comprehensive and coordinated provision of services for patients. For people with mental health challenges or drug dependence, multi-disciplinary cooperation and team-based services will be important to ensure that the mental and physical health of the patient is protected – not in part or in part, but as a whole. As far as specialist healthcare is concerned, I have commissioned regional health companies from 2015 to establish procedures to ensure that patients in the field of mental health protection and interdisciplinary specialised drug treatment receive treatment for their somatic disorders. Similarly, they are given the task of ensuring that patients treated for somatic disorders receive an offer to deal with their mental health challenges and drug problems when appropriate. The government continues to invest significantly in mental health. I remember reintroducing the golden rule from 2014. This means that mental health protection and multi-disciplinary specialised drug treatment should be given priority in relation to somatic health services in health regions. This year we set up free treatment options where we start with mental health protection and drug treatment. On the municipal side, we are facilitating an increase in the bet on low-threshold measures. In addition, we now come with a public health report, where we equate mental health with physical health also on the prevention side. All these are measures to help improve the overall provision of services to people with mental health challenges. In the EEAS and in the National Health and Health Plan, we will return to several measures that will be of importance both for people with mental health challenges and for the general population.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e986	I thank you for your answer. Norway has joined the WHO global target of reducing the premature death of non-infectious diseases by 25 pst. by 2025. It will require, as the Council of State set out here, targeted efforts to achieve this – not least to people who are affected and who are in a vulnerable situation. To what extent does the Council of State believe that the necessary measures have been taken or can be taken at short notice in order to achieve this objective, the reduction, by 2025, also for those people who are suffering from mental illness?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e995	In terms of providing treatment, which is a challenge in itself, for this group — i.e. not being treated for their somatic diseases when undergoing treatment for their mental health challenges or for their dependence on drugs — this has already been given as a mission in 2015. I'm concerned that the problems occur a lot before that, and it's a lot of the work that we're doing now in the primary health message, about: seeing the whole human being and making sure that the municipal health and care services are organized around the whole human beings – and not as it is organized today, where one can get the impression that people are going to be treated piece by piece and division. On the preventive side, we are now doing a lot of concrete work, where we are also concerned about implementing measures that do not require individuals to make their own choices, but where we have made choices on behalf of the collective. So let's do that. on the food side, where we are reducing the content of salt, sugar and saturated fat in food.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1004	The study from Bergen shows it as both the Council of State and I know that everything is related to everything, and that people with mental disorders also have somatic disorders. However, in this forthcoming performance reform, free treatment options, psychiatric patients should have access to specialised psychiatric treatment in private service providers who do not need to have an agreement with the other treatment provider. Does the Minister of Health understand all those who now warn against free choice of treatment not responding to the needs of these patients for interdisciplinary and comprehensive treatment? I am aware that we have talked about individual levels, but does the Council of State see that there are challenges here?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1011	I do not see that the free treatment choice reform poses any additional challenges in addition to the challenge we already face. Therefore, those challenges need to be solved in the same way as they do today, namely by making you look better at the whole patient. The institutions that will be eligible for free treatment and be able to provide help to several patients are well-established institutions, which in many ways are not just complementary, but are the basis for some of the good help we can provide in mental health in Norway today — for example. Modum Bad and Sigma Nord, which are institutions with prominent professional environments that provide people with good help. In the same way as the health care services owned and operated by health businesses, they need to be better able to cooperate with the other parts of the healthcare system in order to provide help to patients’ somatic health challenges. It is a challenge that applies regardless of whether it is public or private, non-profit or commercial.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1022	‘Oslo University Hospital’s Ideas Phase Report has drawn a long-term objective of future Oslo Hospital in one Campus Oslo. [[OUT]] The Hearing Round showed little confusion about the collection of large parts of the OUS on Gaustad. In response to the Storting, the Council of State has told of a meeting between the Council of State, the OYS and the Health of the South-East, where it has been ‘common perception of the political realities of the matter’. From a media lookup, it seems unclear what the common perception is. Can the Council of State address the political realities of this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1029	Oslo University Hospital has recently presented a new version of the report ‘Idea phase report Oslo University Hospital’. This is a comprehensive investigation work in which more than 300 people have been involved. The work shall provide a basis for considering developments in the future Oslo University Hospital. The 2014 consultation round shows that, among others: The municipality of Oslo considered that the necessary infrastructure measures must be a cost related to hospitalisation. The municipality of Oslo pointed out that they were skeptical of giant projects which require coordination of many actors, different levels of government, opposites of interest and sectors at different levels. This hearing opinion, along with what I perceive to be a majority on the Stortinget, is critical of an overall hospital in Gaustad. It was also crucial for my opinion on the matter. In addition, the director of Oslo University Hospital has formulated it this way: it is not realistic to fund the full collection of Gaustad. However, this does not mean that the ongoing investigation work at Oslo University Hospital is stopped. Oslo University Hospitals need to replace old, inappropriate and sometimes completely worn-out buildings. There are also several parts of the establishment that should be brought together to a greater extent than at present in order to ensure the best possible quality and efficient operation of the hospital establishment. There is also a need to strengthen overall capacity due to strong population growth in the capital area. I record that many are concerned that a lot of investigation tools and resources are now being used in this process. But Oslo University Hospital needs new constructions and upgrades. There are a number of interests that will be affected by the development of Oslo University Hospital, which must also be involved. All experience suggests that good planning and decision-making results in lower costs in subsequent rounds. The present report from the project, ‘Idea phase report Oslo University Hospital, version 2.0’, is readable and provides a useful insight into the challenges facing Oslo University Hospital. The Management Board of Oslo University Hospital decided on 13 February to postpone the administrative procedure for the matter. The reason was that further decisions should be anchored in a new government and that the board needs more time. I therefore await the management board's treatment, which is planned in April. The final report is planned, as I understand it, to be completed and processed in the board of Oslo University Hospital before Christmas, with subsequent treatment in Health South-East.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1040	My question concerned the political realities of the matter, as the Council of State had mentioned this in a meeting between the OUS and Health South-East, and I still think it is unclear. My main question is: is it a political reality, as the Council of State sees it, that it is okay with the somewhat reduced version of the magnificence, that it is good to move on with that project, and that it was only the first version that was not a political reality? I would like to answer if the Council of State thinks there are political pluralities at Stortinget to go on and figure out the version that is somewhat moderate, and that is what is the political reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1045	What was common to me at that meeting, both from my side and from the management of Health South-East and Oslo University Hospital, was that the option of full assembly in Gaustad, which also implies the need for a bridge over the motorway, does not have the connection of the most affected municipality and which also had to be a strongly involved party to such a development project, which would be not only a development project for Oslo University Hospital, but in reality a major urban development project – on many levels, such as that one. has seen in Stockholm. When the municipality concerned is negative, as it was in the consultation round, and when one sees clearly that parties representing the majority of the Stortinget also express clear scepticism for this, there is a solution that is not a basis for going further and that one therefore does not need to use more resources to investigate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1050	I perceive the answer so that the council thinks it's political uprising to co-locate large parts of Oslo University Hospital at Gaustad. The Governing Councils were committed to anchoring the decision in the new Governing Board. I think the Council of State must be concerned about anchoring this in the Stortinget, the premises and the framework for having a major hospital or not. It's a big decision that many people, including The medical association in the hearing interview, has said that we haven't discussed enough. So my question is, we're going to have a national health and hospital plan. I had hopes that the Stortinget would join the important leadership of the hospital. In connection with that plan, will Stortinget determine what kind of hospital form we are going to have in Oslo, major hospitals or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1055	I am very happy that I am given the opportunity to complete my answer, because the representative has drawn the wrong conclusions from what should be the continuation. I believe that this is not a political basis, is a collection of Oslo University Hospitals in one place. When Oslo University Hospital investigates their future model of building mass, they are required, through the guidelines that apply to this, to explore different models. Then I hear that – both the representative and in the public debate – one of the options is very much involved. There are also several alternatives investigated, and one of the other questions relates to the need for local hospital functions elsewhere, in several places in the city. This applies, for example: where the cancer treatment is to be investigated. There are questions that the Management Board of Oslo University Hospital in the first round is responsible for assessing what alternatives they want to take. As I have said to the Storting many times, I am following this process very closely, and I will of course involve myself if I see there is a need for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1068	‘In an interview on 16 October 2014, the Justice Minister said that ‘The work on attitudes, culture and management is a work that must be ongoing’, it must ‘be part of our daily focus [...]’. Does he think that changing a sentence in an allocation letter and not following up later on if the change has been practised is a good path, when a ‘ready policy change’ at the bottom is the purpose?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1075	The question raised by the chairperson of the Judicial Committee deals with parts of a matter currently being dealt with by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. In the verification hearing on the matter, the issues raised were also affected. I believe it is right that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee should deal with this matter in detail, and that in addition to that, I refer to what was said in the hearing. I'm sure that's not a surprising answer. In general, however, I would like to point out that the most important operational governance document in the state is the letter of allocation. It is the follow-up to the budget decision of the Storting and it is assumed that the heads of the letter of allocation are closely followed up by the underlying agencies. The ongoing governance dialogue follows up the specific objectives and reporting requirements and, where there are deviations, it would be natural to ensure closer follow-up. In the absence of deviations, attention will normally be somewhat lower. However, the Ministry of Justice and Defence has changed its procedures for the follow-up of letters of allocation recently to ensure that the leaders are also followed up in the disposal records of the underlying agencies and also in the other management dialogue in an even better way than has been the case in the past. However, it is important to ensure good and trust-based management that the control regime does not overshadow the responsibilities of the establishment for the implementation of the landfill and department.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1084	I'm not asking about the cases that are being dealt with in the Control and Constitutional Committee. It's only allowed to go its own time. I take this up because the council itself has said that he is busy with culture, stagnation and leadership, and then I am looking to clarify what is his philosophy of leadership. The criticism he has received in the matter to which he refers is, among other things, of course. that he should have run what is called management by e-mail, i.e. that one gives a short, written message, and that one does not follow up in a proper way afterwards to see if it is actually practiced, even if he thinks he is sending a clear policy change signal. What I'm about to get ready is exactly the philosophy of leadership of the state council, which is the top leader before the police, if he thinks that giving a message in the form of a change in a sentence, without following it up afterwards, is good guidance or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1091	The representative puts some premise on the question that, in my opinion, is wrong. In general, I can say that I am very concerned with trust-based management. I'm totally dependent on the fact that we have leaders in all parts of the underlying businesses and in the ministry who can lead on the basis of the trust they show from both the Council of State and their own other leaders. I believe it is absolutely fundamental in any form of management. If you're going to get creativity, if you're going to get people to shoulder their responsibilities, to do their tasks in the best possible way, there's one thing that's more important than anything else, and that's that they actually have confidence in doing the job they have. That means that from time to time things will go wrong. This means that from time to time it turns out that one should follow up control signals in a more thorough and better way. I think that's exactly what we have to bring with us. Then the routines that are to be changed are changed, as a result of a discovery that things should possibly have been done in a different way in some context.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1096	I record that the Council of State does not respond to whether he thinks it is good rental or not. I address this issue because the Council of State has submitted an agreement on a police reform. Soon there will be a proposition detailing how the police reform, which is a major change, will be implemented. There may be important points in the details where there will be a clear, proper lead from the Minister of Justice. I can give him a chance to answer another way about how he wants to run the lead in this matter, by asking the following questions: What is the Minister of Justice really learning about the management of the long-term children, which means that he wants to exercise his leadership in the matter of police reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1101	I'm glad we're still taking on new lessons along the way in a process. I think that the most important thing – in general, completely independent of the specific matter to which the representative Tajik refers – is to have experience from events where you can see that things should have been done in a different way. In this context, it is very important that we have a structure that specifically follows up the political objectives of the police reform, that we have a follow-up to it regularly, and that we get a report on this on a regular basis. I believe that we are far better able to deal with those kinds of challenges in the future than we were in the past, because all of us, as leaders, are learning along the way, completely independent, of course, of the matter specifically referred to by the representative. I'm very happy that we're learning people, and that we're part of a learning organization.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1110	I have allowed myself to ask the Minister of Justice and Defence the following questions: ‘The Sex Purchases Act entered into force on 1 January 2009. A recent evaluation report shows that the law has worked according to intentions, both in terms of changes in attitudes and in terms of decreases in the number of people buying sex. But according to the Ostland mission, the police in Oslo do not give priority to enforcing the law. Will the Council of State ensure that the Oslo Police take the Sex Purchases Act seriously?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1119	A key reason why the majority of the population decided to prohibit the purchase of sexual services was the expectation that the ban would include: would lead to less trafficking in human beings. In Oslo, in particular, there had been an increase in the number of foreign women in prostitution who were largely controlled by hallucinators and traffickers. The central task of the police both in Oslo and elsewhere has been to combat trafficking in human beings and infirmities. The prostitution markets in our largest cities are different. Oslo has specific challenges in relation to other cities related to the presence of many organised networks that govern and exploit women in prostitution. The Oslo police state that their strategy has been to look at a broad approach in which an objective of detection and prosecution of traffickers and instigators has been combined with preventive measures and a strategy in which the traffickers concerned have been prosecuted for alternative offences. It has been important to prevent foreign networks from establishing themselves in the city. We have access to apartments where they can place the women they use in prostitution. For many years the work in Oslo was directed through the business of a special group, the so-called Stop project, which I know the representative Nybakk is well-informed about. The project has been completed, but the Oslo Police are now working on establishing a new scheme of dedicated investigators and operational personnel in the field. However, the results of police action in the field cannot simply be read out of criminal statistics alone, and at least not by simply looking at the number of reported clients in prostitution, as the Baltic broadcast has done. The police report that they have understood the political reasons on which the ban is based and have used the ban as a complement to their use of penal homes against trafficking in human beings and inhospitable activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1128	There is no contradiction between combating trafficking in human beings and combating prostitution, that is, bringing down prostitution, rather, on the contrary, and the Sex Purchases Act is an important contribution to bringing down prostitution. The aim of the Sex Purchases Act was, among other things, to reduce the number of people buying sex, as part of a larger picture – we have several laws that regulate both trafficking in human beings, hallucinations and brothel activities. The evaluation reports show that young boys no longer go down to the centre of Oslo, for example, to debut sexually with prostitutes, as we actually saw in 2005, 2006 and 2007, and that it is banned, of course, makes the threshold higher to do just that. But it's actually important that the Sex Purchases Act be enforced, because if you don't, it sends out signals that this isn't important for the police and the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1135	After all, the representative Nybakk had a conclusion now, and not a question. Of course, it is expected from us that the police will enforce the laws that apply. It is a premise for all the work done. In addition, the government is working with a big message in the follow-up to this sex Purchases Act’s evaluation, and then we will also have the basis to go through the different perspectives that the representative Nybakk is concerned with.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1142	As the Council of State said, this is also about the fight against trafficking in human beings, and that is, in fact, the fight against international organised crime. As the Council of State probably knows, most prostitutes today, in Oslo and other major cities, are trafficking here, and that is, they are victims of human trafficking. In fact, international economic crime and other international crime are also multidisciplinary, in the sense that the same people are behind drug trafficking and prostitution. It actually means that enforcing the Sex Purchases Act is also an important contribution to preventing prostitutes from being sent here. Does the Council of State see that the law – both the Sex Purchase Act, the Halik paragraph and the brothel ban – is also a contribution that can reduce trafficking in human beings and combat international crime, but that it must also be enforced?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1149	This is one of the things that, of course, we'll come back to in depth in the announcement of big business. But the representative points to a very big challenge, just that this is serious profit-driven crime, where there is the opportunity to raise money that drives it, and it's really little interesting what that business is all about. Serious organised crime is about trafficking in human beings, sex and drugs, and it is very often the same criminal networks that are part of this. It's a huge challenge, and it's absolutely essential that we together have a law that can best protect us from that kind of serious crime. I am absolutely convinced that the police in all police districts will also do what they can to contribute to the brutal, profit-maximising crime, which has many facets, among other things. the facets of the representative Nybakk will be minimised. But we have to be constantly alert as to whether there are other things we can do – to do this even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1160	‘The acute refugee situation suggests that we should receive more quota refugees. In the state budget it was decided, after negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left, that the number should be increased by 500 to a total of 2 120, a doubling of the number since the Workers' Party was put into government. In a letter dated 19 January, the UDI has requested an allowance letter from the Department, and is concerned if we can accept 2 120 refugees in 2015. Can the Council of State assure the Government that UDI will receive allowances as soon as possible and that the Council of State will reach its target for quota refugees?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1167	Let me first thank the representative for the question. The letter to the UDI was sent on 12 February 2015. On the same day, the Ministry had a meeting with the Directorate to ensure a common understanding of the letter and to facilitate a good dialogue in the future. UDI was told to start preparing the Syria withdrawals before Christmas, even if the formal allowance letter was not completed. This was initially linked to the government's proposal for an additional quota of 500 places and the 500 places for this group on the ordinary quota. Although the government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, will work to establish new criteria for the withdrawal of transfer refugees, UDI was informed in January that the first withdrawal must follow the same criteria as in 2014 and until new criteria are in place, the withdrawal will follow the current criteria. Consequently, the work on new withdrawal criteria should not hinder the achievement of the target in 2015. I assume that the target for the quota refugees will be reached in 2015, in line with the Storting decision. The UDI provides three exit commissions before summer and three exit commissions after summer. In addition, there are some cases that are dealt with exclusively on the basis of the case documents sent to the UDI by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1176	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that the Council of State now assures the Storting that we will accept the number of refugees that we agreed on in the State budget. As I said, we have an extreme refugee situation related to the Middle East conflict, and we have experienced the greatest refugee disaster since World War II. Only in Syria are over nine million people on the run, and the Left believes that we need to get more involved in the refugee problem, and that we should take in more refugees. We can and should do more. I am aware that we have an unsolved situation relating to Syrian refugees who live in Turkey, but can the Council of State assure the Government that we will in any case accept the 1,500 Syrian refugees to whom we have committed ourselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1183	The government follows up the decision of the Storting in this regard. It is right, as the representative points out, that we have had problems with the withdrawal from Turkey. There has been a difficult situation because the refugees have not received travel documents approved by the Turkish authorities. It has created a difficult situation that we have worked hard to resolve. Not only Norway has had these problems, but Norwegian embassies are working to solve them. This is a very boring situation, not least for those who have been picked out to come to Norway but who are still not allowed to come to Norway because they are not accepted by Turkish authorities. Regardless of that, of course, we are working to achieve the targets set by the Storting. In other contexts, I have been criticised for being too preoccupied with target numbers. I'm concerned with measurement numbers in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1190	I hear that the minister is still happy with the figures. I want to follow up on something that was a majority remark in the budgetary procedure before Christmas, concerning the refugee camp Camp Liberty. The majority comment was about looking at the situation there and remedying it. I wonder what is the status of the refugees from Camp Liberty in the future, and what is the Minister of Justice's answer to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1197	The receipt letter sent to the UDI on 12 February set out 155 so-called open spaces, of which at least 20 are to be picked up from Camp Liberty, so this has been followed up already in the existing exit letter, which was sent in February. Then we have to keep a close eye on how this development goes on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1207	‘The!les Association has been part of different read strategies since 2003. However, the association has been told that their actions will not be part of the Read Strategy 2015–2019. This will lead to the loss of 180 000 students and about 5,000 teachers who have been part of Norwegian school in the last 17 years. What is the reason why the Association!les should no longer be part of the read strategy, and how does the Council of State see that the work of the Association!les can continue beyond the strategy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1214	Reading action plan 2010–2014 had many measures that focused on reading motivation and read stimulation. The association!les was therefore a natural supporter and also received support from, among others. Directorate of Education for his work. In 2015, before summer, a new read and write strategy is to be launched. I see the need for a renewed and comprehensive effort that includes both kindergarten and school. This is a work that is going on now, and I will do some new grip in the future strategy. In the last few years, Norway has had fewer students with low reading skills in the international studies PIRLS and PISA. That's good, but we still have a good piece left. The evidence base suggests that Norwegian students, in particular boys and minority language students, continue to face challenges with their reading. In addition, we know that many students are struggling with different levels of reading and writing difficulties. I would therefore like to focus the measures in the strategy more on these groups. The resources of the strategy will be used more to develop skills among both kindergarten teachers and teachers in order to better assist precisely those groups that we know need more support to become good readers and printers. In this work, we will use research-based tools and have therefore committed the Reading Centre to developing resources to be used in the development of competences. As I said, the new strategy is under way, and we are in dialogue with the Education Directorate and the Reading Centre on the content and design of the strategy. What will be included in it is still not entirely decided, but I want to focus more on skills development in order to better care for children and students who need to strengthen their skills in reading and writing. The actions of the strategy shall support the objectives in various ways. The State may not be the guarantor of funds to different organisations. Having said that, I would like to take this opportunity to recall that the Ministry of Knowledge has two grant schemes aimed at contributing to the support of private and non-governmental organisations and from which associations can apply for funding. Of course, the association!les can also apply for funds from there. Having said that, I would like to stress once again that this strategy is under way, and that what is going to be in it is not yet determined, or not in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1233	I thank you for your answer. The government and the majority of the population have been involved in cooperating with voluntary and private actors. The association!les has been an important contributor to dyslexia and general literacy for many years. The association operates very efficiently because it has experience, has strong links with the book industry and contributes significantly through both support, greatly reduced fees, free books and good distribution agreements. This cooperation has given schools throughout the country the opportunity to benefit from a voluntary organisation’s network, competence and experience, which in turn has benefited students through better and more organised education. Does the Council agree that this type of cooperation is something you should have more of? And how, in his work on the Reading Strategy and in other ways, will he help to make it possible for voluntary and private actors with valuable skills to contribute?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1244	I fully agree that it is important to attract non-governmental organisations, such as NGOs. The association!les. That's also why we have support schemes for the kind of organisations that work with the apprenticeships in school. I believe that when there is a new read strategy, we need to assess from time to time what means we should use. It's quite natural, I think something else would be funny. When we've said that there are some groups that we're particularly concerned about, for example. Boys and children from minority families, it is also natural to look at whether the means we have today, and the support we give today, meet these groups well enough. How this will turn out for individual organisations, it is not possible for me to say anything about it now, but that such an assessment must be made, I believe it is a matter of course. Even if you do good work, you're not guaranteed an eternal right to be part of a public strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1253	I thank you again for the answer. Dyslexia represents for many a serious obstacle in everyday life. It may be particularly true for people with dyslexia who went to school a while ago, before taking this issue seriously and getting more organized education and other measures. Today, there are very few jobs and professions that do not require some form of literacy. Also among the minority population, lack of literacy — whether due to dyslexia or other conditions — can be a barrier to entering the labour market. Does the Minister of Knowledge consider that there is a need for increased efforts towards adult dyslexics and other adults who do not have sufficient literacy skills? And how does he see to it that we can take care of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1264	The short answer is yes. The slightly longer answer is that this is one of the major issues that the Department is now working with the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on, which will result in a big message such as: is about adults and basic skills. Governments and cooperation parties have also made important contributions to this, for example: by providing a small amount of money to develop a monitoring tool to identify adults who need any help. Although the BKA Basic Competence Scheme in Work [[BKF]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1281	The President will only recall that the public – who may follow this on a form or on screen – should be informed of the meaning of the abbreviations. Let's move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1290	‘There is a major debate on the structure of higher education. The Council of State initially wants voluntary mergers and has asked the institutions to determine what they should be and who they consider to be good candidates for mergers for professional reasons. In the West, none of the institutions wanted to go for a Western university. If there is genuine volunteering and quality to be taken into account, why does the Council of State choose to contact the University of Bergen to review this option?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1297	The debate on the structure of the higher education sector has been going on for decades, with varying degrees of intensity. In 2006, the Government of Stoltenberg appointed the so-called Stjernø Committee to ‘propose measures to ensure that the structure of universities and higher education institutions contributes to meeting society’s needs and ensures good use of resources’. The whole sector then agreed to the diagnosis and description of the situation, but not to the measures, which were a proposal for eight to ten sub-national universities. Instead of following up the measures of the Star Island Committee, the Red-Green Government initiated SAC processes related to cooperation, division of labour and concentration. I believe that SAK work has been useful, but that it has largely exhausted its potential. I have therefore initiated a structural reform. The government has high ambitions and objectives for higher education and research. The Norwegian university and higher education sectors have combined good quality, but also a number of challenges, in particular linked to small and vulnerable environments and many scattered, small training offers with failed recruitment. It is also for many institutions that compete for the same students and offer the same education. Today, we are disseminating resources for research and higher education for thinr purposes, and the total international participation is also lower than the resource base. Structural messaging has been an open and inclusive process in which all state institutions have been given the opportunity to play an active role. The aim has been to give institutions the opportunity to contribute to the challenges facing the UH sector as a whole. Dialogue meetings and input from institutions have been valuable. Institutions have taken the task seriously, and many have suggested that they join forces with others in order to become stronger. The representative Aasen points out that none of the institutions in the West wanted to go for a Western University, and asks why I have contacted the University of Bergen to ask them to look at this option again. However, what is the case is that some institutions now make different assessments than they did earlier in the process. It is natural when they see the plans of other institutions. Some institutions have indicated that they will make a new assessment when they see what others are doing, and the results of the structural reform are coming into effect. The High School in Sogn and Fjordane will open in its Governing Decision on 5 February to establish a multi-campus university in the West if the University of Bergen is present from the start. I keep in touch with all the institutions. In front of the University of Bergen, I have pointed out the proposals that have come from other institutions, and encouraged the university to look at previous positions in the light of this. I want to listen to the assessments the university makes, but I have also signaled that the UiB is robust and strong enough to stand alone and move on on their own if they wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1310	I thank you for your answer. It is true that there has been a long-term job with a more appropriate structure in higher education, as the Council of State describes. The red-green government established, as is right, SAK, cooperation, division of labour and concentration, and this government has added an s, for ‘combination’. The Labour Party supports the intention of these changes – to underline it – and that the objective must be higher quality in research and higher education, which hopefully will lead to stronger trade unions. It is the institutions themselves who have given notice to sketch their own strategic profile based on how they consider that they can fulfil their intention in higher education policy. Nevertheless, we can read a fairly large degree of activity from the department, even though the Högskulen in Sogn and Fjordane primarily want to stand alone, and Bergen wants to be alone. What about the quality development of these institutions that the Council of State considers different from their own?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1321	The analyses that form the basis for the process we have initiated are, among other things, in the Stjernø Committee, they are contained in repeated reports and evaluations carried out by both Norwegian research and Norwegian education, and not least the link between the two. Both nursing and nursing research have been evaluated, and the Norwegian chemical environment has been evaluated. That's what's at stake. When we have an active dialogue with the sector, it's because it's a prerequisite for getting into a good process. I think it would be a bad way to direct this process by sitting in an office in Oslo and drawing up a map, and then trying to tree it down to the sector. But that also means that we've been very clear about where we want to go. When I e.g. has been in Sogndal and explicitly asked not only to meet the institutions, but to have an open public meeting on this, it is precisely because we want to have a discussion about what opportunities Sogn and Fjordane and the college there are looking for, and what strengths and weaknesses they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1328	Quality is central, even in the Council of State now sketching. But it's not very easy to define that term, either in this sector. We probably know more about the status of quality in research, but in education we don't have much good documentation. That's why it's unfortunate that we only get a report of quality in 2017, as far as I have understood – and at least for little use in this process. So we're in a situation where quality is little defined. In addition, institutions do not know what future framework conditions will be, what kind of funding system the government will end up with, or whether it will do something about the categories of institutions, i.e. whether we need to change the rules relating to who will become a university. And what about the great reform of vocational training, that is. for the teachers? That training shall be amended. Why is it added up to a sequence in this process that is so random, and where the goal of quality drowns in so much else?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1337	Because these things are connected. In terms of quality of education, it is quite right that it may be difficult to find a precise measure of it. But that's the case in a number of areas. What we have, however, are indicators that might say something about it. For example, it is possible to look at character statistics versus the time spent by the students. It is possible to look at how time use varies from institution to institution. We have now introduced a pilot scheme of national delectionary examinations, precisely in order to obtain more information on quality and quality of education. Education quality is again linked to the funding system, where there has at least been agreement among several parties here that if you have a funding system that rewards too much and provides incentives for student credit production, as you might call it a little unfortunate, it can also be at the expense of quality. Finally, I would like to point out that the quality of research and the quality of education are interrelated. Indeed, it is one of the main points of higher education: that research and education should be linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1350	‘University schools have contributed to the strengthening of professional training through, inter alia: increasing the number of professors and an offensive commitment to practical research. The most logical thing for the Western world is to bring together all the professional training courses in a common Western professional university with the main focus on training the future engineers, teachers and nurses of high quality. However, educational institutions feel that the most important thing is to find a partner. Has aggregation become more important than the objective of higher quality in education?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1357	No, it doesn't. I would also like to thank you for a question that has a lot of exciting premises in it. I'll comment on some of them later on. Aggregation itself is not more important than the objective of higher quality. The pooling structure is an instrument and not an objective, but is one of several means of achieving the objective. The representative believes that the logical thing for the West is to bring together all the professional training courses in a common Western professional university. It's an exciting idea. I'm a little uncertain about how the representative thinks about this. Is the thought e.g. to withdraw the selected education from each institution and place it under a new common umbrella? In that case, it would leave more small and vulnerable institutions than we had before the process. In addition, it is not necessarily the case that professional training is best developed by being completely isolated from other disciplines. For example, social sciences and historical-philosophical subjects may have a lot to do with professional subjects. Having said that, I agree with the representative that professional training must be brought together and strengthened. An important reason why we have started work on structural changes in the university and higher education sectors is precisely to take account of the professional professions, i.e. the professional subjects with a relatively short research tradition and which are often provided as three-year Bachelor's programmes. The challenges facing the higher education sector in general are particularly evident in these subjects. Vocational training is widespread in a large number of institutions, many of which have major recruitment problems and small trade unions. In addition, many environments with low formal competence are struggling with professional staff. At the same time, the candidates from these training courses are central to maintaining the welfare state and ensuring a good service provision in all parts of the country. In these areas of society, there are major knowledge challenges that are difficult to solve if the professional community does not accumulate anymore. Institutions responsible for the professional field need to assess whether the professional environments they have are heavy enough to develop education, practice and further the field of study. If not, they must find one or more partners with the appropriate professional profile so that they can jointly raise the professional subjects. After several institutions throughout the country have made proposals for mergers, other institutions take into account that the future institutional landscape will be different from what is now. Some institutions thus make different assessments now than they did earlier in the process. The institutions of the West are still talking together and keeping the doors open for different constellations. I trust, and I expect them to also take into account the professional subjects in their assessments. For me, it is essential that the new institutional landscape contributes to the strengthening of important professional training.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1374	Thank you for following up several of the premises. It is quite right that there has always been a tension between investing in academic education and practical research. What we've seen in recent years is that we've succeeded in strengthening colleges to have more research-based education. There is a good dialogue between the different institutions in the West. Those who research it with aggregation say that aggregations that have been show that it doesn't have any special effect if it doesn't come from below. The high ball in Sogndal is high on both grades and performance, and they ensure local recruitment, which the Council of State was also involved in. They want primarily to stand alone, but now they feel forced to join forces. The University of Stord/Haugesund also wants to be primarily a professional university, but feels that they initially go towards the University of Stavanger. In the Western world, we experience that as it evolves now, we get the second best solution for all of them, and thus maybe not the quality that is desired.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1387	First, a few comments about the Sogn and Fjordane High School: it's quite right that they're good at implementation, especially on Bachelor, but not so much on Master's degree. They have a little better results on the cooperation master they have with Norway's sports college, but it's a collaboration master, just so it's said. Of course, it is a relevant objection that if you had managed everything from above and drawn a new map from an office, it might, for example, be. the path to a professional university, with those institutions that could feel natural at home there — in the West, would be shorter. At the same time, there is a contradiction between the two premises in the representative's questions. On the one hand, the representative emphasises that mergers are often successful when combined on a professional basis, and that is at least some support for it locally. On the other hand, the representative speaks warmly for a solution that not so many of the other institutions have spoken for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1394	That's exactly what I pointed out, that the primary thing for Sogndal is to clean up their professionals and succeed well, but that they have good cooperation both against Volda and against Bergen. In the case of the University of Stord/Haugesund, they have also said that the primary focus is on professional education, but they want to go a detour around the University of Stavanger. Meanwhile, the University of Bergen will apply to the University of Bergen, which is their election number. 2nd@item: inlistbox Then it's really, if you see it from above -- I'm not concerned that you draw something on a map, but understand the dynamics that happen out there -- to be able to see the overall goal, and in the dialogue that's going on, also see what's the primary desire, and what's the best result for quality in education. In the dialogue that is taking place in the future, I hope that the Minister is not primarily concerned with referring to the effectiveness and aggregation, but that it is the quality that is in focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1401	I fully agree with the last point. With regard to the constellations the different institutions have pointed out, it is true that it cracks slightly in different directions. But if you, for example, should take the idea of a professional university, or say a college of excellence – it is not clear what kind of criteria, as the representative has previously pointed out – that could perhaps become a university of excellence, e.g. like Buskerud, Vestfold, Telemark, because part of the profile of the University of Bergen's portfolio will clearly fall outside there. But then there are some very clear institutions that point out: Sogn and Fjordane have a clear professional profile, and Volda has a clear professional profile. Both of them will need to strengthen their teacher training in view of a five - year master’s training. The Bergen University has many of the same disciplines that they have in both Sogndal, Förde and Volda. I think it's a very exciting idea and I like to discuss it with the institutions, but at least Sogn and Fjordane haven't pointed it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1412	‘There is now a debate on the structure of higher education institutions. The highlight of Volda is that it wants to continue on its own, but it feels a strong pressure from the government to merge. The highlight requires the professional basis for the merger to be the only option. What is the professional basis of the state councils that the High Sphere of Volda does not know?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1419	It will surprise me if I have any professional basis or analysis that the awakened people of Volda do not know. They are certainly immigrated in what has come from reports on both research environments and educational environments in the last 10–15 years. They have certainly read both the Starø Committee and other peer reviews of the disciplines that also involve them. The high ball in Volda is good in many areas. The Bachelor's students, for example. completes in normal time. That's good. The High School has a clear profile of journalism education as a clear point. That's good, too. But then the High School also has a number of challenges: They have a low proportion of qualified applicants per study place. – All this is otherwise public, it is nothing secret from the department. The search and recruitment, in particular for teacher training and health education, child protection education and sosionom, is a key challenge for the Høgskulen. They publish below the average for state colleges. They have a very low proportion of externally funded revenues, and very little from the Norwegian Research Council. They have a low proportion of graduate masturbators. These are signs, indicators that we need to talk about, that some of the professional environments are small and vulnerable. The majority of fascinations that have occurred since the turn of the century have pointed to very small trade unions as one of the barriers to quality. As you know, the government will aim to transform teacher training into a five-year master. The new teacher training will make even stronger demands for professorship and master’s degrees in the central schools. It will be a formidable lift for the Hochskulen in Volda to take, and I am uncertain whether they will meet these requirements on their own already in 2017, from which we have said we intend to introduce the new teacher training from. These are important things that I've discussed with the High Sphere in Volda, but I've also drawn out, as you should do, that the High Sphere has a lot to be proud of today, and that will be an important part of the future structure. Of course, Western higher education institutions must also consider the importance of major changes affecting vocational training in other parts of the country. Several institutions have submitted merger proposals which involve higher ambitions on behalf of the professional professions. New, large institutions with a professional profile will have the prerequisites to develop powerful professional environments that can challenge professional environments in the West, from Bergen to Molde. The need for changes among Western higher education institutions must be seen in the light of this as well. I think it's very good with the offer that exists in Volda, but I think it can be better, and with this process we want to facilitate stronger trade environments in the West and in More and Romesdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1452	On the basis of the Government's response, the merger may seem to be the goal rather than the instrument, and at least the only instrument the government is willing to use to strengthen the pillars. I interpret the answer to the question that, at best, there is insufficient evidence that merged educational institutions provide better quality and are economically viable. The government decided early on that the purpose of the structural changes should be to improve quality. All right. But is not the government at all concerned about pressing through mergers until there is evidence that they really lead to quality improvement? And would it not be wise to evaluate the effects of next year's voluntary mergers before going on with more mergers in the sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1459	As politicians, you should always have a healthy concern about the policies you implement in any case, because reforming and changing are difficult. There are always pitfalls, it's always possible to cross faults. This is precisely why it is important to have a good process, which is thorough, and not to make hasty decisions. But at some point it's also necessary to put a dot. Some of the problem in the sector is that there have been millions of dollars and lots of blood, sweats and tears in collaboration processes that have not ended up in anything but beautiful intentions — little else. Structure is one of the instruments, but it's by no means the only thing. A new funding system is an important tool for higher quality. In the case of higher education in concrete terms, they have benefited from the government’s increase in the number of scholarship holders specifically directed towards vocational training. Engineering training has now received its own pot for equipment – fixed, permanent, 30 million. kr per year. It is an important contribution, as is the long-term plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1466	When the zero option is not accepted, one impression is that this may be a major centralisation reform that comes from top to bottom. It might be close to believing that the foundation for this is as economic as anything else. An interesting question, to which I have not received an answer, is: how should a better use of resources in merger be made without reducing the number of places of study or education? Does the government really want fewer campuses?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1471	It's the government that rules the campuses, so it's not the government that goes in and controls the detail. We shouldn't. And then this isn't a reform to save money, rather it says in the government statement that we're going to spend more money on higher education. I think we should do the same. It is a good investment in both research and educational quality. Of course, changes can be difficult, and of course, there can be intersections in the sea. I was saying, you have to be blind if you don't see that this is also the case in politics, which is going to rule in a complicated world. My question back is, what is the option? For example, when colleges see that they are going to have a big boost. on teacher training, when they see that the requirements for what a professional training course should contain become higher, not because politicians necessarily require it, but because the working life and the changes in society require it, when we see that the research and linking requirements between research and education become higher – what should be the answer, if not to seek partnership?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1476	That's when the Storting's ordinary Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-18.ana.ud2278e1489	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
