ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e111	The representatives of Ingebjørg Amanda Vossken, Bente Stein Mathisen, Mette Tønder and Jan Arild Ellingsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the representative of Hans Olav Syversen on leave from 8 June to 10 June, and from the representative of Sverre Myrli on leave on 8 and 9 June, both to attend the Assembly of NATO in Kiev, Ukraine from the Workers' Party Group on the leave of the representative Gunvor Eldegard from 8 June to 10 June in order to take part in the meetings of the Nordic Cultural Fund in Stockholm and Åland Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From other alternates of Akershus County, Anne Odenmarck, respectively, and from the first alternate of Oslo, Ann Kathrine Skreyshammer, there are applications for exemptions from meeting in Stortinget under the representatives Gunvor Eldegard and Hans Olav Syversen's leave of absence, respectively, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Are Health and Mani HussainiFor Oslo: Elisabeth Løland
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e174	Are Health, Mani Hussaini and Elisabeth Løland are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e180	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Hans Andreas Limi. – Other proposals are not available, and Hans Andreas Limi is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings. The representative, Heidi Greni, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e187	On behalf of Marit Arnstad, Kjersti Toppe and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal that the municipal law should be amended to promote greater transparency and better participation in local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e192	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 5 is dealt with before case No. 4 – and considers it adopted. At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 1, 2, 3 and 5 are treated together. – It is also considered to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e245	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes and Environment Party Green 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main figures of the parties and six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e256	I am delighted to present the Committee's recommendation to the Innst. 305 S, Mint. 308 S and Innst. 309 L. These cases concern the development plan for criminal law, changes in criminal law resulting from agreements with other countries, and changes in the state budget resulting from the financing of that agreement. This is a happy day because you think untraditionally. The size is today invited to do something that has not been done before, namely to enter into an agreement with another nation for the execution of criminal offences outside the country’s borders. Let me first pay tribute to everyone who works in criminal matters, to everyone who is upright every day, takes responsibility, does a job for the benefit of the prisoners, for the sake of law enforcement in a good and proper way, and to get people to walk from crime to become law-abiding citizens. What they make up daily, it stands respect for, and I want to express it favourably from this pulpit. There are challenges in everyday life for those who work in criminal matters. At the same time, they do a job of which there is great respect. Let me also say something about what may have been the greatest focus in Meld. The situation in Agder. I would like to thank Søgne municipality, Vennesla municipality, Lillesand municipality, Fromand municipality, Mandal municipality, Kvinesdal municipality and, last but not least, Gågebostad municipality. What I want to thank them for is the effort they have made to the committee to show the willingness to help solve the challenges that criminal justice is facing. Perhaps the most important thing I've learned in this process is that none of them have spoken behind each other, but simply have spoken out to their colleagues and to those they've competed with. That's what I think has been a great experience. You've had so much of a liberalism that you've been able to focus on your own qualities instead of talking others down. I would like to give the same reward to the county rapporteurs for East and West Agder, both of whom have been good representatives of the position on the South. Here I think other parts of the country have something to learn, not least when it comes to localization debates. So to the big shot. Someone would say that it should have focused more on the content of the property. I reserve the right to disagree because, as the title says, it deals with a capacity plan for criminal justice. So we can discuss the content, but I suggest we do that when it's topic. This is about what is a necessary focus: several closed spaces to meet the challenges that criminal services face. Some say that the notification is far too much about quantity rather than quality. My starting point is that quantity is also a quality, because without capacity you face problems you would not otherwise have had. That is why quality and quantity must be seen together. The challenge with the big picture is that you want to find solutions to today’s and tomorrow’s problems. What I would like to see is that the big message took care of the whole country. It doesn't, but I expect the Storting to be able to handle the rest when the government makes suggestions about it. It's about what we're going to do, where, and how. There are several issues that are important to consider in this case: it is quality, it is capacity needs – how much prisons can we dry up in Norway? – there is a rental of capacity abroad, and not least, where. The status is — if we are inferior — that no large prison has been built in Norway since Halden prison was opened in 2010. If I don't remember wrong, that process took eight years. The Bondevik II Government promoted an allocation of 40 million in 2002. It was completed by the Labour Party at the opening of the prison in 2010. So it'll take you almost ten years to get things done. If it is due to Norwegian inflexibility or a necessary bureaucracy, I will leave it unsaid, but the fact is that it took almost ten years to get Halden in place. This shows something about the challenges and processes we face and the importance of doing good processes that are forward-looking, so that we can solve the challenges we have. At the same time, there is no doubt that we have challenges. Much of today's prison building mass is old and bad. If I don't remember correctly, eleven of the prisons that are currently in use are built in the 1800s. So the challenges lie ahead for the employees, but also for the owner of the prison buildings. It is also possible to say that perhaps too much has been spent in open prisons in recent years, as opposed to building closed places. It's possible it has to do with price, it's possible it has to do with attitudes, it's possible it has to do with other things. At the same time, the government has come to understand that building prisons and rehabilitating prisons is expensive. The report states that it will cost between 3.3 and 4.4 billion. kroner to upgrade what we have today. Then the question is, can we afford it? The counter question is, can we afford not to do that? At my discretion, there is only one answer: of course, we have to do that, out of respect for those who are to assist the convicted in the execution of the sentence, and that those who do the job have to have working conditions that make it right. It is ultimately about the power of action. It's about the government coming to Stortinget with its plans, and the Stortinget says we're going to do something about this. It's pretty easy to stand on this platform and blame each other for what you haven't done. I think it's much more important that we find solutions that are optimal, where we get a system in place to meet your needs. We know that there will be more judges with longer time to make amends. Then we need closed spaces. At the same time, I am quite clear that there should be open spaces where there is a need for it. Fortunately, we have a system in Norway where we have different penalties for different crimes. As long as people are different, we need a wide range of sanctions possibilities to solve the things we're facing. I mean, the government's taking hold. An agreement is concluded with the Netherlands. There will be a new prison in Agder with two units, one in Mandal and one in Fromland. You bring a KVU for the East. It has been said that you want to expand with up to 100 places within Halden in prison, Skien, Bergen, Åna and Trondheim, and you come back with region north – to look at this. What the Greatness now has to do is to be clear about its expectations for the government, and I see that we are. Now you're told that you want a plan back here, where you go through today's building mass that the criminal services have to deal with, with suggestions about what should be phased out, and what should be compensated for it. For the need is undoubtedly already presented: by 2040 we need 1000 new places, and in addition we expect approx. 1000 for replacement for phase-out of old. It's just to fold up the sleeves and do a job, to say it simply and in good Norwegian. I can see that Stortinget is ready for that. Through the processing of Report. St. 12 and the other two things that I've been dealing with, you just do that. In the short term, Stortinget has a clear expectation that 550 places must be put in place. As rapporteur of the case, I have had the pleasure of traveling around and looking at different units around. I have to say that the prisons in Ålesund and Haugesund are two examples of poor building mass, to put it simply. It does something about the motivation of those who work there, and of course of the inmates. I believe that if we help them, they will help us get people from a life of crime to become law-abiding citizens and good taxpayers – which we will all be served with. Perhaps the most important reason why we should do something about it is that a country that is so preoccupied with humanism, equivalency and treating people properly, cannot be aware of having prisons that until those degrees have expired. A characteristic of a good society is the way it takes care of the weakest. With the weakest, I mean the oldest and the youngest. But also the way in which punishment is carried out is a sign of quality, and it may be a sign of the opposite. In that way, this is a step in the right direction. As I was about to say, we're not going to focus unilaterally on prison. There is a pro-mille programme in Norway; it has arrived. There was something that was untraditional before, but we've got it in place. We have a drug programme, we have a system of juvenile punishment, and we have electronic control of people who want to execute a punishment. A regime of criminal enforcement measures is constantly changing because society is not static. But for the most serious cases, a closed prison place will be absolutely necessary. We're going to be tough on those tough ones, and then we're going to help those who want to get out of crime, because in the long term it'll serve us all. It is also true that the main message has pointed out that Norway has some challenges with mentally ill people in prison. In this big message, the majority have pointed out that Ila will receive support to continue its good work, which began last year in the revised national budget, with a commitment from the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. That's what you're going to do this year. Now they're going to have an order to create a department with up to six places. Furthermore, the Wefsn municipality in Northern Ireland is facing a challenge, together with the government, to establish a so-called safe detention programme for those sent back to society. We are looking at whether § 12-soning can be further extended. It is a good and sensible measure for some of the groups who are convicted. The Committee and the Stortinget want the government to take a further look at this. The government proposed to drop the Slide Island in Valdres. The Storting said no to that. The size has pointed out that the settlements that are probably the most reasonable in the country. Some would say that Valdres may not be the most central place in the country, but I'm sure everyone who lives in Valdres is saying that the opposite is right, that Valdres is very central. What the majority have said is that you want to look at it. It is not Norway's largest unit, but they have good results, and they have a price per square that is far more reasonable than any other unit in this country. We also want a review of the use of EK, electronic control, and the government sees whether it can be expanded, as pointed out by most in the committee. Welfare bonds come as a new theme. I think it is good that we once again put something new on the table and point out that there are alternative solutions. Society is changing, ergo we also need to change the possibilities that we want to use in criminal enforcement. The rights of children were one of the major issues at the hearing on Notification. St. 12. No one wants a regime where it becomes more difficult for children who have parents in prison. At the same time, when someone commits a criminal act and has to take responsibility for it, it often affects related people. It is a consequence of an act that a person has committed himself. It's not society that's done it. Women's units are a challenge that we ask the government to look at. KRUS, the educational center of criminal services, will face new challenges in educating people. So the Netherlands. It is a fact that today the majority is going to enter into a lease agreement with the Netherlands at 242 places. What we cost us approx. 270 million. crowns per year. The reason for that is pretty simple: it's fast and right. We have a pay queue that the Workers' Party in its comments has correctly pointed out has increased by 104. We take responsibility for that. If the government can name those 104, I'm not sure, but what we're doing now at least shows that we have a solution. It's untraditional, it's fast, and it's effective. We are absolutely sure that the Norwegian and Dutch authorities will find a good solution to this, so that the criminal execution is done in a good way. First of all, I think there will be people with little connection to the country that's going to zone there. It will be that the Nordics can do it voluntarily, and in the utmost consequence, it may be that people who have long sentences can be asked to take a trip to the Netherlands in the beginning and then come back to the country and continue the execution here. It is an action that has not been taken before. Someone would say that this is a violation of decency. Someone's going to say that there's a breach of the Constitution. Some people are going to say that this is simply stupid. I'd like to say to them that sometimes it's okay to wait until you see what history is like, before you judge or judge. I welcome this proposal. I think it is a good and sensible proposal, and I am absolutely sure that this will be implemented in a good and proper way. In dealing with these matters, Stortinget was very clear about the constraints, who's going there, and who's not going there. It is also clear when you can start the process of sending people down, and not least when the law will end. One is also clear that this is a one-off case, and one is – to be 100 pst. clearly – also concerned that this is not a government cut-off. Here you're going to do at least two things at once. The use of sites in the Netherlands should be sensible and sound, while at the same time establishing 500 new sites over a five-year period. This means that the government has to do two things: you make sure to reduce the pay queue – you take it away. That also means that hopefully there will be better conditions for those who are going to zone here in the country. And you have a time limit that you have to deliver on. The size of the order has done an excellent job here. You've been clear about what you've wanted, you're clear about expectations, and I'm glad that the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are on this solution. Of course, I wanted the Left to be part of it. They have chosen, based on a principle approach, to say no to it. I guess it's the same with the Workers' Party and the Center Party. I'm assuming that they're going to be clear from this pulpit, so I'm not going to say anything more about it. Let me finally say that the hearing on Announcement. St. 12 was interesting. I have a great sense of being occupied by those who commit crime in this country, and of being punished in the best possible way. But what surprises me was that no one mentioned the victims of crime in one word. I think that's a skepticism, which, as a politician, I'm not proud of. I think it's good that the Storting is doing something about it, and that we are now focusing on the fact that the criminal execution can be done in an untraditional and good way. I address the proposals in the three cases for which I am the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e311	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen addresses the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e316	First, I would like to say that I support the mention of Agder by the Progress Party and the cooperation there. But I would also like to include the rapporteur in Evje and Hornnes, who have been on this team. Last time the Progress Party had power, they were exposed to the construction of Halden prison. The building was proposed by former Minister of Justice Dørum. From the money came on the table for the first time – during the Stoltenberg II administration, in 2006 – it took four years before the prison was finished. So money is related to the time period. The Progress Party has voted for a proposal to start construction once, they have put it in the drawer once, and they are going to vote it down today. This time, too, the Minister will be given 'pusterom', as the rapporteur refers to it as in the vote. I ask the rapporteur: will there be only new plans this time, too, or can the President and the Advance Party give a concrete time for building on Agder to start?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e325	First of all, let me say that I have to complain strongly that I forgot Evje and Hornnes in my statement instead. Of course, I shouldn't have done that, after jumping Agder around – both here and there. So I'm very sorry. When it comes to the second question, I have full confidence that the government will come back to Stortinget with it. Just as it took the Labour Party eight years to complete Halden prison, we have to deliver at least as quickly — if not more quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e332	I record that the Progress Party refers to the construction period quite unexplained. The construction period lasted four years and not eight years. That is why I ask again: when the President of the Advance Party and the Cooperation Party of the Government Coalition, Right, now wants a new plan, in what time perspective does the representative see Agder Prison coming into place? Now the representative's party is in charge, they're in power, they're with the Minister of Finance. They're unclear when prison building on Agder is going to start. So I ask, can the representative be clear about the dates for the start of the building of prison on Agder?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e337	In fact, Halden prison was proposed to be built in 2002 and was opened in 2010. If that's the way we're imprecise, we're continuing a good tradition we've learned from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e342	I try again -- the good tradition or not. The question concerns this: It took four years after the money was on the table under our second government – money that was not granted because the Progress Party wanted more investigation when Bondevik was in government. So it took four years from the money on the table until construction started. That's what I'm dealing with. The second question, which I record is that the representative of the government parties will not answer, is therefore that they do not have the power to give a clear indication of when to start building on Agder. Can the representative estimate a year for the start-up of the building of prison on Agder?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e351	I mention again that the start of Halden prison was in 2002, and it was completed in 2010. So it took eight years. I'm not going to blame the Workers' Party for all the exasperation. We're going to deliver faster than the Workers' Party did, and I can assure our State Council that there will be full pressure from the big groups, both from us and from the Right. And I'm saying that the Christian People's Party is at least as impatient as we are, and that the government is going to deliver faster than the Workers' Party did.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e358	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e362	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for an exemplary way of working through this matter. There are many things we are dealing with together today, and I am the case rapporteur for what goes on the content of the message, and that is again part of the whole complex area of business that we have. The message we have received is not so big in the number of pages, but the content is extensive and gives us a good insight into the major challenge we face in the criminal justice sector in Norway. This message's forecasts extend until 2040, as opposed to the capacity plan, which had a perspective only until 2016. The message presented us with a picture of today's major challenge, with a pay queue of 1,200 unconditional judges, which is not compatible with optimum criminal enforcement. Capacity utilisation has been over 98 pst for a long time, while there is a 90 pst coverage measure. In addition, the Communication shows that there is a need for 1000 sites by 2040, with a background to both population growth and a picture of crime changing, and that 1000 of today’s sites need to be replaced by new ones as a result of the very poor state of the building mass of criminal services. The message is a clear signal from the Right-Fremskrit party government that the state of Norwegian criminal justice is not acceptable today, and what we are presented with shows that the previous government has not taken this issue seriously at all. On the right, only the construction of closed prison sites and the maintenance of prison buildings were not prioritised by the previous government, and the Right and Advance Party in the government showed political action. The criminal health report shows us that the overall picture of crime is falling as crime becomes much more complex. In line with the global globalization of society, the clientele of criminal services has been enhanced by cultural, religious and linguistic diversity. The number of convictions with convictions of more than one year is increasing and the need for closed custody cells is increasing. In total, there is a need for more closed settlements. It is interesting to see, then, that the Labour Party in its proposal to solve this challenge proposes more open settlements, and does not take into account the fact that the highest needs of criminal services are closed settlements. When the diagnosis says that there is a need for several closed areas, it will be mismedication to propose several open spaces. There is a cross-political consensus on the value choices and principles underlying the criminal response in the Storting, cf. St.meld. No 37 for 2007-2008 and Innst. S. No 169 for 2008-2009, and these are essential for the implementation of penalties. In the right, there is a clear link between quality in housing and the occupation in Norwegian prisons. The fact that employees have professional and building capacity for a fully-fledged rehabilitation facility is highly concerned with the best of both prisoners and society. The objective of 90 p.m. occupations in Norwegian prisons are not randomly chosen, but are based on a prerequisite for optimal rehabilitation. It will be difficult for employees to have a necessary rehabilitation focus on the individual prisoners when the coating is detonated as it is today. For the right, it is therefore important to address the capacity problems of criminal services, including from a rehabilitation perspective. The right notes that both the Centre Party and the Labour Party want to use forward release to help solve the criminal justice challenge. For the Right, it is important to stress that it is the courts that are to determine the level of penalties in each case and not the criminal justice system — and especially not in the context of lack of space. Exploited release has been used in the past to address this challenge. There was then massive criticism that this was being used. I refer you to the statement of the former head of the National Association of Police Officers, who said: ‘It is for the courts in Norway to decide how severe the penalties should be. [[...]] There's a signal that you don't have to pay the whole sentence you're convicted to. The introduction of a system of systematic early release undermines respect for the courts.’ This is a state that the Right does not want to go back to. The consequences of the capacity challenge in criminal justice are that there is much more work through large parts of the criminal justice chain. Police and criminal services are in constant search for vacant capacity, rehabilitation is getting worse, inmates have to wait for their son's judges, to finish and start a new life after an end of atonement. Police resources that could have been used to prevent and investigate crime are used to move and manage prisoners. Therefore, the Right is satisfied that the government parties have reached agreement with the Christian People's Party, and that we jointly take the challenges of criminal care seriously. Therefore, an agreement is reached with the Netherlands on the rental of 242 prison sites. This agreement shall be temporary, while building up new capacity in Norway. The challenges that emerge from the fact that there will be linguistic challenges to zone in the Netherlands are already present in Norwegian prisons today. Over 50 pst. of the custodians do not have Norwegian language as their mother tongue. In addition, through this case, a prison with 300 seats is established in Mandal and Fromand, with 150 seats on each holding. The challenge in criminal custody is great throughout Norway. This applies both to the need for new sites and, in particular, to the challenges of maintenance, or to the lack of such facilities. The right-wing party government, with the support of the Left and Christian People's Party, has granted 100 million. kr in exceptional means of maintenance over two years. But this is not enough, of course, when forecasts show that because of the lack of prioritisation of the previous government, the maintenance run is between 3.3 and 4.4 billion. kr. Through one of the proposals in this case, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party ask to be presented with an escalation plan for the development of Norwegian prison capacity and the phasing out of older and non-functional prison buildings. The right is also pleased with the government's proposal to create a safe detention centre for those convicted of detention. In recent years it has been found that many sentencing judges are released from the right despite the fact that the criminal and prosecution authorities have recommended the opposite. Although these detention sentences are released to a regime with good security in the municipalities, it appears unfortunate that the criminal justice system related to repatriation is not fully exploited. The right is therefore satisfied that there is a majority in favour of the Mos Sea being considered a prison for safe detention programmes. It is important that any establishment should have a sufficient number to provide a qualitatively good treatment and follow-up service. The Mos Sea prison is currently in good contact with its partners in terms of the services that a prison is dependent on for rehabilitation and repatriation, and this should be further developed. The right is very pleased that the government parties and the Christian People's Party are taking the challenges of criminal care seriously, because this proposal extends the capacity for closed places in the short term, as well as that we are taking seriously the poor building stock in criminal care and asking the government to come back with a phase-out plan for old prison buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e399	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e402	The Right Party and the Advance Party show action, said the representative – and it is certain and certain: In the big news, the government proposes to set up a very good department in my county, Kleivgrend in Fyresdal. It is suggested that 28 open places be moved to Agder. Today, there is a proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party to postpone this while waiting for phase-out, so a confirmation closure of the proposal today. No input I have received, suggesting that one should make such a grab. So I'm wondering if the representative can explain to me what input she, or the government party, has got that would indicate that these 28 places in Fyresdal should be laid down?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e407	Firstly, it is very interesting that the representative addresses a communication proposal, which has been clear and well known to all the members of the Judicial Committee – including the municipality of Fyresdal – and then comes to the conclusion of the final phase of the discussion. But at the same time, it is clear that the message gives us clear feedback that there are closed spaces that are most needed. There may be a need for more open spaces. It will show that plan in relation to construction, when we get it back, but it is included in the proposal here: Closed spaces, as well as open spaces in Europe. And we need a certain overview of the number of places, both closed and open, so you get a good progress in the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e414	Yes, I am fully aware that it is stated in the message, and I disagree with the proposal. That's why both the Labour Party and the Center Party state that we don't want to put those places down. So I also hear that the representative thinks that the municipality of Fyresdal was informed about this. There's a whole other information I've been given. The spokesperson in Fyresdal has not been aware of these plans to lay down, nor has anyone on the Telemark bench. I record that the representative believes that this is right to do, and then I'm wondering what input the representative has received professionally, and also politically, because why this is tricked – 28 places in a department that is perhaps the cheapest to run in the whole country. Is it because you want an increase in closed prison places, it's an honest thing, but I would like to know what input the representative has received, which would ensure that this department should be laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e423	Firstly, when I say that the municipality of Fyresdal and the representatives on the Telemark bench know this – and you are a representative on the Telemark bench – it is because we have read the message all together, it is in the message. That's what I'm referring to when I say you have the opportunity to see it. If you have read the message, you have seen that it was there. But the most important thing here is that the feedback from criminal services is clear and clear that we need – a great need – for closed prison capacity. Then we have to solve that challenge. But then we also have to assume that we need open spaces in order to get a progression in the criminal execution. And the proposal that is now from the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, says that criminal services should assess where open spaces are needed, and where it is most effective that those places should be established.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e430	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e433	Thanks to the rapporteur and the committee members, whose efforts, in particular the last days before the release, eventually led to a coherent attitude, which was a challenge. The aim of criminal policy is a secure society. The Labour Party will punish people who violate Norwegian law and citizens in Norway. Penalties shall be severe and fair, and those sentenced to prison shall quickly enter into atonement. For those who are subjected to serious crime, and their closest, lives can change forever. Therefore, how to deal with victims of crime is important, and therefore we need a broad approach to punishment and reconciliation. The criminal forms and criminal system of a society are also about the core issues of philosophy and religion: What is a human being? What's right, and what's wrong? The philosopher and theologian Maimonides wrote in the early Middle Ages that ‘a good punishment is about winning the lost brother back’. Punishing offences is important and correct. How to do that is a question of human vision, ethics and humanity. We've got to get the rescue cows down. Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party will spend a quarter of a billion each year for five years renting 242 seats in the Netherlands. The Labour Party will use the money to establish 335 places in Norway, 100 more than the government every year. In addition, we want to start building Agder prison, as well as Halden and Skien, and put money on the table to that in the year's budget. The majority have postponed and tuned down building on Agder twice. Now they're doing it a third time. 335 places may be released under existing legislation. In the so-called overall capacity plan, or the criminal health notice, such assessments are not included, and I think it is a little strange that the Christian People's Party has not brought this element into the negotiations. We have surveyed concrete prison plans throughout Norway. More than 2,000 enclosed spaces are on the drawing board. And it had to be a southern landing, right from the interior, in order to get Agder prison to appear as an air reflection that ‘smokers’ in the South could provide. When the sun goes down, the nice pictures are gone. No time indication or concreteisation of start-up is available. A new plan in 2016 and hopefully mention in the 2016 budget is the only concrete result of the negotiations. The working party will not wait. We suggest that prisons at Agder should also be organised for female prisoners. The Labour Party believes that those who commit crimes against Norwegian laws, on Norwegian soil and against residents in Norway will zone in Norway, not in other countries. We should strengthen the reconciliation capacity at home, not outside. Prison inmates today are a highly marginalised group. Women are a minority in the prison system. They make up about 9 pst. by the prisoners. Four out of ten women have been sexually assaulted as a child, while six out of ten report having been raped as an adult. Many prisoners are heavily indebted, some of which are linked to public institutions. Many researchers point to the importance of having good debt advice in prisons. Most prisoners are carriers of markers that fall under social inequality in health and economics, and there is a generational component in this. None of this has been resolved in the proposal to send prisoners to the Netherlands to zone. This systematic inequality, which the government parties do not address at all, is of the opinion that it is important to include when action is to be taken. Therefore, the Workers' Party will strengthen the content and rehabilitation. Compulsory schooling, better monitoring, more individualised rehabilitation courses and more professional groups entering prisons are some of the measures we propose. Today is a bullying day for Norwegian criminal justice. The Government's proposal violates Norwegian values, Norwegian tradition and Norwegian law, for loud protests. Today, the Progress Party will be able to make an impact on its criminal policy mantra: send them away. The election fell on the Netherlands, and the Christian People's Party blesses politics. Report. St. 12, about capacity, which was announced during the harvest session, came in February. The absence of a broad perspective led the Workers' Party to promote its own proposal on the content of criminal justice. Measures to reduce crime and improve the return to a law-abiding life are outlined here. Crime is generally falling in Norway, including among young people. The measures currently in force have proved to be effective. The Labour Party has proposed around 40 new posts and means to improve the health status of female prisoners, to mention something. Good measures to reduce crime are supported by the majority. The message and the proposition show clear policy lines. The Labour Party will have a criminal implementation adapted to the challenges we face, in a way that provides more, not less security. Increased capacity in Norway, at the same time as reinforced rehabilitation and return work, is our answer. The message mainly describes the need for closed prisons. I did not fully understand the last argument from the Right, whether there were open or closed spaces that were actually wanted or needed, but the announced wide review of the capacity plan has at least proved to be quite narrow. It prescribes the need as it is at the present date. At the summit, the Minister of Justice, from dusty archives, has developed old solutions that the Stoltenberg government closed in 2008: putting two in one cell. The measure promotes criminal learning, not learning and rehabilitation, which contributes to changing the course of life. In addition to budget cuts, this is not much to bet on. The notification presents, as the third interim measure, the density within existing walls of Halden, Skien and Åna prison. This is supported by the Workers' Party, and we put money on the table to get this started. So, to say all the hearing bodies were critical of the bill on renting prisons in the Netherlands. The hearing period was criticised, and serious objections were raised from then on. Several went on unexplained legal issues, and some went on the possibilities of violating human rights. The Labour Party takes this criticism seriously. The Civil Ombudsman, the Association of Lawyers, the Data Protection Agency, the Red Cross, the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights, the Health Directorate, the Medical Association, the Fangers Association, and the trade unions, to name a few, had serious, critical objections. The Prison Priests' Association and other religious or church communities were not heard. Several open questions remain. One concerns the target group, referred to by several hearing bodies and attempted clarification by the majority in the vote. The question is, who will be left when we remove all the exceptions? The results of the NTNU have been researched in prisons with serious learning difficulties, in a diagnostic context, with slight to moderate mental retardation, which is related to approx. 10 pst. by prisoners. They often get long judges, they don't participate in the rehabilitation, they like to extend their stay, and they reduce leave. Often they are repeater criminals, and I guess the few have children. Are these the ones that have to be transferred? The PST is concerned about less control over radicalisation processes and that participants in organised crime are becoming more difficult to understand, and wants a law or regulation that ensures that prisoners under the responsibility of the PST are not included in such a transfer zone. I don't know what's going to be the result, and who's left when we've played the game "How much do I have, and how much am I left with?" So I asked the Minister of Justice in a written question: who is back when the exemptions are implemented? But he didn't know that either. Target group is not ready. Is it just foreigners? It seems that the negotiations with the Christian People's Party have strengthened the leadership that there are mainly foreign prisoners to be transferred by force. Will this reinforcement be affected by the Discrimination Act? That's not explained. The child ombudsman wants a statutory non-transmission of children. Individual rights of appeal against healthcare provided to Norwegian authorities are lost and serious objections to infringements of the Constitutional Law’s ban on expulsion have been raised. Human rights articles on the right to family life, the prohibition of segregation, and not least the fact that prisoners are forced to be under the jurisdiction of another country, are unsolved in the message, as we read it. The concerns of these organisations are not well addressed. During the first four years of the Stoltenberg I government, the settlement queue went down from 2791 to 368, i.e. a decline of 2,423 in line. From 2006 to 2007, i.e. the first financial year, it went down by more than 900. Now it's been two years, and the queue is growing. It boasts 130 new places, mainly doubles, and there are 100 more in line. Is it devoting power to action? I take up the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e494	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e499	I record that the Labour Party is talking about that with its proposal there are 335 seats in Norway. Yes, there may be 335 places – I cannot see that there are 335 places, at least there are open spaces and not closed spaces, which are the most needed. So it's kind of interesting that the Workers' Party is sitting on a competence that suggests that they think there are open spaces that are most needed, instead of what the message is clear and clear about, that the challenge is the greatest in relation to closed spaces. But the most important thing, which is my question, is going to the Netherlands. The representative Kari Henriksen was also present in the Netherlands when we met with the management in Norwayrhaven prison. The representative talked about listening to the recordings at the hearing. But did they also listen to the feedback from the Netherlands on how they were operating, how they are taking care of the prisoners, and how they are taking care of progress in the implementation of criminal sanctions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e506	So first of all, let's do the math and the reasoning. No, I understand that the Right Party and the Government Parties may have difficulties with numbers and assessments when we hear how they argue about the use of time and years for the implementation of building prisons. The argument in our proposal applies to both closed and open spaces. When we move someone who's less criminal, out to an open place, there's a free place for someone who's more criminal. It's a pretty simple logic. In the case of the Netherlands, I have said – and I have also said that to the Dutch authorities – that I have no reason to doubt how the Netherlands is dealing with its prisoners. Margunn Ebbesen was also present at the meeting where I explained it. What I am saying is that it is with regard to Norwegian legislation and the transfer process in the context of the questions that arise, and it is not well enough addressed in this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e514	One of the good things about the Workers' Party is that they are quite predictable. There's a quality in itself, you ask me. I am also pleased that the representative Kari Henriksen is so impatient to build several places, although I think the calculation was so creative that probably even the Riksrevision would have stumbled on it – but okay enough. My question is quite simple. The Labour Party said instead, in our previous line change, that four years were spent between the time of the government, until Halden's prison was completed. If you were still so concerned with closed places, for example: in Agder, why didn't you do anything from 2010 to 2013, while you were still in government? You could have started the construction then.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e519	The predictability of the Workers' Party is evident in the fact that we grant money when we want to do something, while the predictability of the Advance Party is that they will have more plans and larger investigations and breathing rooms for the Minister. There is a clear political difference. We did something between 2010 and 2013. When this government took over, there was actually a suggestion in the government apparatus to build new prisons on Agder. We have repeated this now, now it's going to be repeated here for the third time – the second time in Stortinget, but there was a proposal in the government. In all these three cases, this proposal has been defeated or iced by the current government, for the benefit of more plans and better breathing room for the minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e524	Only in the case of Agder: the representative knows well that there was no money to build prisons in Agder in the budget for 2014. Now I voted correctly with the Workers' Party at the time, assuming that I would like to see you put the shovel in the ground as soon as possible, but what has happened since then is that you have received this capacity message. There is a lot of tension in the whole field, and I expect the representative not to be irresponsible and to grant money until the plans are completed, because they were not then, and they are not now. As Mr Ellingen said before, there will be a proposition, one case, to the Stortingen on Agder, and then one will also make investment decisions. But my question is, when the Workers' Party chooses not to agree to solutions that ensure more closed spaces now, and the representative says that one will have more open spaces instead, build more open spaces and send more out to open spaces, does that mean that one wants to lower the threshold for those who should actually be at the closed, and transfer more to open spaces? Is that correctly understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e529	I am very pleased with that question, and I am very pleased that the representative of the Christian People's Party is raising an important criminal and ethical and moral dilemma – who is going in and who is going out? So there are our considerations that we've seen that the moral and ethical dilemmas associated with moving to the Netherlands are so big and so serious that we've taken the objections seriously, and that's why we're voting no to the Netherlands. Then we have said that the money that the government is now putting on the table to accommodate Dutch rents, we will use for alternative forms of criminal enforcement in Norway. That means we want an assessment of who's going to have the closed space, and who's going to have the open space. But we haven't said that we're going to change any of today's legislation, so we're dealing with the legislation of the previous government, and as this government at least publicly states, there's a great deal of excitement about it. This is our basis for delivering 335 places in Norway instead of in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e534	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e537	This is a historic day for criminal justice. Someone chooses to use it with a negative sign, I've noticed, but I want to draw out the positive. Finally, we get a big message of our own about the capacity challenges in criminal care, as the non-socialist parties have long called for – that one can see the capacity in context, that a common can make priorities to meet the major challenges. I would also like to agree with what the rapporteur said at the outset, that this is primarily a notification of capacity. I would like to have a major debate on content, and so it was stupid, really, that the Workers' Party's proposal on the content of criminal justice was not dealt with until the fall either, because that is how we could get more time to discuss that matter – I am more than willing to discuss it. But I refer to the message that was adopted in Stortinget not long ago, with the main principles of the content of criminal justice, and, as I said, I also join the rapporteur-in-Office, who points out that getting more places, reaching 90 pst. Instead of having up to 98 pst. Prison coverage will also contribute to better rehabilitation. We need more funding for activities, we need to secure the means to implement the courses that are needed, and we are also concerned that one has non-governmental organisations and others in place to help the prisoners to achieve the best possible rehabilitation. I would also like to start by thanking not least the case rapporteur for a thorough and good job. As he himself was inside, he sailed, traveled, and visited, and took it in the greatest seriousness, and he deserved a great reward for that. My colleague from the Right, the representative of Ebbesen, whom I have worked closely with to prepare the plan and the comments, I would like to thank for a good job, and the representative of Nybø from the Left, who is not in the Committee, but as shadows, and who has been involved in much of the work, I would like to thank you for a good job. So we decide to have our own phase-out and construction plan for prisons. It is incredibly important, because, as many have pointed out, the needs towards 2020 are 500 new places in addition to the fact that one really needs 500 to replace bad places. By 2040 we need 1000 new and 1000 to replace bad places. It's a three to the building mass may need to be phased out. It shows that there's a need to do something, and now we're going to grab hold of it. I look forward to the treatment that will come next spring, but we are already showing, in comments from the majority parties – a lot is the whole committee too – that there are special needs in Haugesund, in Ålesund, in Oslo, we point to Valdres, which the case-rapporteur was in, the Mosjö, which others have been in, and also Bergen, Skien, Halden, Åna and Trondheim. This means that there are opportunities to build prisons in many places, and we also prioritise being able to rust up or build modular prisons within already existing walls, which will go faster. That also means, I know the Minister of Justice right, that perhaps next year's budget will see even more capacity increase in closed places. We're pointing to the use of OPS, and I want to stress that it's important because it also makes it possible to make this promise. So someone would say that that means that someone's taking it on the payroll. I would say no, this is a good measure that has been used before, which we point out is to be applied to prisons in Agder. We've used that before on Agder, when we built the E18 Grimstad-Kristiansand. One showed both that one got it cheaper, that it went faster, and that one has good quality on the road. I also think that some of the creativity that was used then, we're going to find out in these OPS projects, so I have great expectations that the long time it took to build Halden is going to be much shorter when we're going to build in Agder. Let me move on to Agder. I just want to say that it's an incredibly important decision we're making today, where we point to Mandal, where we point to Fromand, where we point out that there are two units to be built in 150 places each. That was the basis of the KS1 report that came, and it was clear that it would be the best. When we challenged the government in the process, one was also clear that one had not decided, so we used the room for action that was there, and chose that decision. I also asked the Council of State about the open spaces being laid down. Is it suggested just to build closed? The Department and the Council of State said that they were at work. That is why we showed the power of action in Stortinget, and we said that the places to be closed should also be replaced with open spaces. So when Kleivgrend came in, it was in the message, it was in the questions, it was in the impact assessment. When we built so many new closed spaces, we were concerned that there would also be open spaces, and thus the country we did, that to replace the places that were phased out on the Håvet and Kleivgrend, one chose to expand the capacity of Evje. I'll talk a little bit about the Netherlands. I really think I can say that no one wants to use places in the Netherlands. Of course, we would like to be able to solve the challenges in Norway itself, but we are in a difficult situation. We're in a situation where the need for custody places has increased, we're in a situation where the capacity has been detonated, and therefore I want to commend the government for thinking creatively – or actually just copy Belgium, for example, which has implemented it, but in a much worse way, because they used eight-man spaces, etc., while we're now getting single cells for each one. We who were in the Netherlands got the presentation. It's a prison that's great, a prison that's going to have big activities, good activities for the inmates, and I'm sure it'll be popular for those who have the opportunity to travel. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we have succeeded in getting the law repealed after five years, so 1 September 2020 is that story. It also puts an enormous pressure on this government to build the places that we've said we're going to have into the plan that's coming next spring, the 500 new ones by 2020. We have said that it is only the Netherlands, said it is not for prisoners under 18 years of age, not for those who care for children under 18. And we have pointed out that yes, mainly there should be foreign criminals, non-Norwegian citizens, who should not be repatriated in Norway and who do not have relatives in Norway and who therefore do not have the same needs, and that they should mainly be voluntary. If one succeeds in a good offer – I also challenge the government that one has to work hard to make sure that it is actually the ones who want it, who are applying for it there – I am sure that it will solve itself in a good way. As I said, it's an action I'd like to be in addition to, but when we're in the situation we're in, I think it's right to solve the other challenges. One is talking about the principle of subsidiarity, which is incredibly important. When a person moves people who do not have the same relationship and who do not have the same need for relatives in the vicinity to the Netherlands, others may also be able to zone closer. One knows – the representative Henriksen from Agder knows well – that prisoners at Agder are transported around the country. This means that when a person removes persons who do not have the same relationship, others may get closer. That means I can fully defend that measure. It is mentioned that there may be violations of human rights and violations of the Constitution. I will strongly refute it. There are no constitutional obstacles; there is no violation of human rights. There is no expulsion of Norwegian citizens; they can return when they are done. Top of the page: If they run away from prison, no one refuses to cross the border, but they are probably put back in. There is a full possibility of having a relationship with children; they are not the ones who will be sent to the Netherlands either, if they do not want to. The Civil Ombudsman shall be released, the Council of Europe Committee on Torture Prevention shall admit, we have stressed that there shall be non-governmental organisations, etc. That is why I believe the whole of the measure is good. I also need to draw up a number of other points that I think are important. We have asked for a review of the use of care, a critical review, so that it is not misused. We are very clear that what is a violation of human rights, namely that people sit too long on smooth cells, has to do something about it. Fortunately, it is already a decline. In 2013 there were over 4,250, last year there were 3,441, a decrease of almost 1,000 people who sat more than 48 hours. It's a human rights violation. Hopefully, the agreement with the Netherlands will also help to reduce the number of them. We point to CRUS, we need to learn more, and there's a great need. That's what the Council of State and the government have to answer, we need to train enough personnel. § 12 zoning has been discussed by the rapporteur; it is an important measure. I would also like to draw the attention of the Council of Conflict, ‘restorative justice’, the re-establishing processes, the important arenas to which the Council of Conflict contributes, the Youth Penalty — enough resources are needed, and we point that out. Electronic control is another measure that we ask for when a final evaluation is completed to see if it is possible to extend it. It's because we also think it can be a sensible measure. Finally, welfare bonds, which are an exciting, creative measure in which business can also provide funds if one obtains results from non-governmental organisations to prevent relapses in the criminal justice system.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e574	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e577	I think this was very good to hear, and I know the representative Ropstad well enough to know that he is concerned about this with content. My first question is quite simple and precise: When Roppstad is concerned with the content of the soning, I wonder if that does not mean that he will vote for our proposal that is in the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e582	Thank you for your attention on content. Then I want to clarify what I said up from the pulpit: I would like to discuss that proposal in a different way afterwards. With the huge amount of things we've had in the committee, it could have been more thorough if one hadn't taken it in parallel. I will also consider whether there is something we should look at for the autumn. Then I must also admit that on speed I do not remember what kind of proposal Henriksen refers to. But when I've done what I've done in the setting, it's because I'm too used to trying to be consistent and stick to it. Although I also make mistakes between myself and have to change from committee to room, I am reasonably sure that I will vote it down. But I would like to make it clear once again that we have a job to do also with regard to the budget, to ensure that a person gets the best possible content by getting enough staff to deal with, and that employees can offer activities. There are important things to ensure the best possible rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e591	I think that is a disappointing answer, I have to say. I had actually expected the representative to be better involved in the case. We have ourselves chosen to deal with Document 8:86 S on the content of criminal justice at the same time as this message and the legislative proposals. So these three treatments go parallel. We have submitted a proposal on the content of the soning, which was also not completely rejected by the Council of State in its response to that matter. But I understand that there are other obligations that weigh more on the Christian People's Party. My next question is about human rights. For the Workers' Party, it is such that legal relationships about human rights encroach on what is neighborly and solidarity mercy. I wonder: What assessments have the Christian People's Party made that are different, when both the Left and the other parties on the Stortinget plus the Bar Association, the Civil Ombudsman and the others I mentioned have a different experience?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e601	First to content: Yes, I have to admit that I am not perfect. I should probably think differently when the committee decided that we should deal with it in parallel. Then I must also ask for understanding and respect that I am alone in the committee, and there have been extremely many things. I am satisfied with what we have achieved this spring, but I would like to do even more. I have now found out in the vote and looked at the proposal to which the representative referred. One of the challenges is, for example: a desire to increase the length of training for prison officers. It may be an interesting suggestion, but I don't want to jump on it right now. That is why I repeat that I am willing to discuss it for the autumn. So in the case of the Netherlands, yes, I also had questions when I registered the objections both on the Constitution and on human rights. But through the proposition and through the consultation that the committee itself had, where the Law Association had a different attitude than they had in the hearing before, and not least through the answers that we have received from the Department and the Law Department, I am very sure that the lawyers here are better than the representative himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e610	If no other party asks for a line, Kari Henriksen will get a third line – but only then.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e613	Thank you for that, President. I fully understand that there has been a lot to do, and I also fully understand that the representative is alone in the committee. I think this has been a very busy harvest for everyone sitting on the Justice Committee, and it also tells me that this has been an urgent work on the part of the government, which, first of all, has promoted matters at such different times: the communication comes first and then the bill, which we depended on in order to deal with the message, and thus was much at risk in the committee's proceedings. So I fully understand that. However, I find it very regrettable that the Christian People's Party cannot vote in favour of a proposal on content. So a little bit back to this with the Netherlands. The representative, Ropstad, has sent a written question to the Minister of Justice about youth as sons abroad, when he was concerned about the rehabilitation of these young people. I wonder, is that concern gone as bad as the sun when it's about giving promises of Dutch rent?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e622	Only in the case of urgency: I think it is commendable the work that the government has done in that we can put this agreement in place now, so that one can send the first prisoners from the fall on. So that's not what I meant. But this is a capacity notification – it's about the capacity. It wasn't supposed to be the content, not because it's not important, but because we've asked for it in the majority parties because it's never happened before. That's why I think it was good. There's no contradiction between the fact that the content is not important, but that's not what we discussed right now. The red-green government presented a lot of good content that we supported and that we want to continue. As regards the written question to which the representative refers, the Norwegian citizen was the son of ordinary prisons in other countries, for example: in Spain or the United States, for that matter. There the government showed the power of action and has started work to get them home. If they come home, I don't know. But there is a big difference between this prison, which is under Norwegian control, which has a Norwegian director, who has a completely different activity offer, and who has one on cella, etc. I can't imagine what conditions the other zones were, and that's why it was important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e629	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e632	The issue is how we can resolve the future capacity of criminal services, how we can ensure that prison capacity increases as quickly as possible, and how we can facilitate the provision of quality and good housing. We have this in the Center Party through the treatment of this matter deepened us in. When a person deals with a matter of criminal law, it is important to be forward-looking and innovative. Many things can also be solved differently today than only a few years ago. Technology and new solutions can be used without necessarily reducing the burden of punishment. Many of the problems are complex. There are often composite solutions that need to be, but the central thing is that a user uses capital, competence and forces on the right areas. Capacity and content often hang together, the number of settlements must be straight, so that one has a lack of both closed and open places. Often, a combination of these different types will allow us to make good use of resources. When one has heard the debate so far, one would believe that almost nothing has happened in the criminal services of the last 15 years. This is, of course, an incorrect image. One should be well aware that this will be a debate on who has built most places, and who has done what. It's a little constructive, and it's not much to put in new places. But I would have said that the government has provided two government budgets and has had nearly two years in the government offices, and the biggest single measure one has come up with is an agreement with another country. We're a little excited about this in the Center Party, and we're disunity in that resource use. The size of the population has taken some important steps in recent years on the issue of punishment. The threshold for sentenced to six months in prison for e.g. the event of violence has been lower, in addition to an increase in the level of penalties for infringements of the entry ban. This has been important promise changes, but it's also a side to capacity, and it's got to be leveraged. For the Centre Party, it has been important to contribute to measures that can improve the situation both in the short and long term. We think it's important to use the money as efficiently as possible, and not least use the money to increase the capacity here at home in Norway. We will stress the importance of establishing a mandatory plan to build prisons. It is important to create a prudent situation both for the addition, for the community and for the exerciseal powers. Many places have a project that is ready, but one feels that it is very time-consuming to get them through and get them built. When it comes to short-term measures, the Centre Party has highlighted the following: we urgently need to set up modular spaces in relation to existing prisons. When the situation is that we have a building mass that needs to be heavily upgraded, we have to make sure that we don't reduce capacity. At the same time, this can increase capacity. We believe that this can quickly come into place and help to increase the capacity of criminal services. That is why we want to propose that the government should put forward a case on this very matter. Secondly, we need to ensure that we build up the capacity for reconciliation with electronic control. This is a form of reconciliation that is suitable for a large group of inserts, and based on experience, it can't be estimated in any way to be an easy form of reconciliation. That is why we propose to increase the use of this instrument. In addition, we need to make sure that we have a better flow in the settlements. Some people who have sons of long judges, and approaching the end of the soning, may be able to be transferred to the open ground. This will free the capacity and not least be positive before the rehabilitation. Then we have to make sure to put the shovel in the ground for potable projects. I would particularly like to present Ålesund, Agder and the sea, all of which are clear projects and where words have to be translated into action. When we build new ones, we have to make sure that this doesn't reduce the capacity of the entire set. We also have to be careful about putting down a good supply that works today. An example of this is the provision of prison services in Fyresdal, which should not be necessary when new prisons in Agder are completed. On the contrary, this is an offer that works well, and there are important district workplaces in themselves. And those who make atonement there now experience this as positive. Public vocabulary has been influenced by the question of renting prisons in the Netherlands — for good reason. The central party believes that it is fundamentally crazy to send Norwegian citizens out of the country against their will. As a society, we have a responsibility to investigate, judge and ensure that people execute the punishment in Norway. These issues show that there are some serious aspects to the case. Then one sees that the government comes up with a construction where a rent out a certain number of places to well over 200 million. kr annually. A light Dutch prison officer manages the Norwegian Penal Code, and one says that there should be Norwegian rental there. If this is going to be good enough, and if this is in accordance with our values, then questions we in the Center Party have asked ourselves. For us, the answer is no. Instead of spending all the time you've spent in order to get this done, you should have spent time, energy and economics sticking your ass in the ground to establish prison places here in Norway. This secures jobs, it ensures good content in soning, and it would mean that Norway does not contribute to a prison industry. The centre party believes that one might then doubt whether the measure complies with the Constitution. The Penal Code should not be watered down by short-term solutions as a key test principle. Supporting the prison industry cannot be considered to be consistent with the basic values of the criminal justice system. Consider transport costs, health care expenditure, practical challenges for relatives, challenges related to the content of soning and rehabilitation. We in the Center Party are committed to using the resources of criminal services as efficiently as possible, and to finding the remedies that work best for the individual. We are concerned about balancing the concerns between the general sense of justice, sacrificing its situation and the possibility of realising a good and safe return to society. Everyone's going out of prison once. The centre party will therefore vote against accepting the agreement to rent accommodation in the Netherlands. I am of the opinion that all the proposals put forward jointly by the Labour Party and the Centre Party, or the Centre Party alone, will help to bring criminal justice in the right direction. I take this into account the Center Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e668	The representative Geir Inge Lien has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e671	After reading this message, it is quite clear that this is a message that was needed. First of all, we have many people waiting to get a sentence, and we have some pretty bad prisons, considering when they're built and when they're upgraded. Now I haven't had the same opportunity as the case rapporteur had, to travel around the country and the beach to look at alternative locations on Agder or to look at old prisons and prisons where there is a need for quite significant upgrades, but we've got the same input, and I have no problem believing that there are great needs lying there. I think it's important to focus on why we have to do something about the capacity of criminal services, because it's clear that it's a challenge for society as a whole when we have people who have a sentence, who are waiting for a zone. But it's also a challenge for the individual who doesn't come in for a living, because you're just going waiting to get to finish that salary and start the rest of your life after it's finished. So as a society, we have to make it possible for people to get in as quickly as possible. I am therefore pleased that we have agreed to build prisons on Agder. There has been a great need for a long time, and there has been a legitimate expectation from the Agder counties to get prison in place. As I said, I haven't had the same opportunity to travel around and look at the different options, but we've got a lot of good input into alternative localizations of prison, and I think the alternatives we've been presented have been well worked through, and they've had a good focus on rehabilitating prisoners. I think the solution to having one prison with two wards in Frogand and Mandal, respectively, is a good solution, both for those who work in prison, and for those who are going to be in prison. But I think, as the Center Party was about, that this is also a little bit about district work. I think that by putting it in Fromand and Mandal we get a good balance in terms of where the state places important government jobs around the southern region. So I think it's a very good solution, and I'm very happy that we've agreed on it. Then there are more prisons, as pointed out, where there is a significant need for upgrade or newbuilding. I'm not going to say that I know everyone well, but Haugesund prison is a prison that's in my constituency, and I know it well. It's an old prison, it's a small prison, it's an inappropriate prison, and I'm glad we can focus on the needs of that region. And that there's a need for a new prison in Haugaland, I don't think there's anyone who disagrees. Valdres, too, I think it's very funny that we can maintain. One of the most important reasons, we think in the Left, to increase the capacity of criminal services to do with the use of smooth cells, because it's a big challenge that we have as many excesses as we have. It is a pleasure when it goes down, but every human rights violation is a problem for a state of law – as Norway is. We now have a verdict against us in Oslo district court that is not anchored, and that is therefore rightful. We have a practice in this country that cannot continue, and we have to do something about it. We read a matter in the evening post not very long ago about an 18-year-old who put three days on a smooth cell to have stolen goods for less than NOK 5000, and it is clear that it is disproportionate to what he has done. It is not worth Norway using smooth cells and isolation in this way. Then it's to increase capacity an important step in the right direction, but I don't think for my part that it's enough to get rid of the overseats. I think we also need to focus on a rule change, and not least I think we need to focus on following up the decisions that were made in a matter we dealt with earlier, on smooth cell use. But I want to pay tribute to the government for it's focus on increasing capacity, because it's also a way to reduce the smooth cell problem, even if I think it's not enough. Then I want to associate some words with the Netherlands and the purchase of accommodation abroad. It is, as I see it, a concrete proposal from the government to solve a problem that we have, with large cows in criminal care and with considerable use for smooth cells. We in the left were willing to stretch quite far to get down to the particular use of smooth cells, and thus enter into an agreement with the Netherlands. What makes us not participating in this agreement with the Netherlands is primarily about Norwegian citizens. But it is clear that, as the rapporteur also said, it is a principle behind it, for criminal enforcement is one of the most fundamental of a rule of law and democracy – ensuring that one’s own citizens, and so far as others who commit crime in Norway, get a fair judgment, and that they are subjected to the punishment they are sentenced to. Then it is not entirely unproblematic to send offenders to another country to punish them. But I would like to stress that I have no reason to believe that it is a bad offer given in the Netherlands. I am absolutely sure that the prison there is a good prison to be in, and that it is a good offer that is given there. But I believe, in principle, that a state should take care of its own citizens who have committed crime, and, to some extent, others who commit crime in Norway. We have also received quite a number of feedback from some rather heavy actors that this is problematic given, for example: The basic law, human rights, and it can become problematic in terms of rehabilitation, the principle of subsidiarity, etc. We in the Left are therefore concerned that while increasing the capacity of criminal services is one way to address this issue, we also need to look at other ways of doing it. We therefore want to vote in favour of the proposal by the Centre for the Advancement of Release, because they believe it has been done in the past, with good experience, and I believe that it is also a way of addressing the problem of overruns. Finally, I would just like to address the proposal that I have made on behalf of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e701	The representative Iselin Nybø has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e704	It is good for the government to send a message to the Stortinget about the capacity of criminal services. There is reason to be concerned when we still have long settlement queues, trajectory in high settings in prison. The capacity of criminal services is important because criminal acts must have rapid consequences, and because it is bad policy to put people's lives on hold. It is also important that people sonar quickly, for the sake of justice in Norway. The starting point for criminal policy must be prevention. The most important thing we can do to improve the capacity of Norwegian prisons is to prevent crime. It is a pity, therefore, that the message discusses to a small extent how capacity requirements would turn out to be different from population growth. It's strange that a person doesn't take over the fact that they can arrest someone to prevent crime is involved in repressing the pressure in prison places. The Norwegian Association for Criminal Reform has, among other things: point to the problem of assuming that ‘the needs of the past will be reflected in the future’. The most effective way to prevent crime is to prevent major economic and social differences from developing. Trust between people prevents crime. An inclusive society with low unemployment and good growth conditions prevents recruitment to a destructive environment. Rapid reactions and early efforts at all levels prevent crime from developing and increasing in scale and seriousness. It's also a part of the picture when we discuss the capacity of criminal services. The same applies to the contents of criminal services themselves. I am aware that this is a notification of capacity and not of content. However, I would point out that the content of criminal services is also decisive for capacity. It is crucial for society and for those who have our prisons that a new start be made after atonement. Work, housing, education, proper health care and care before and after release are particularly important. Good criminal services with good rehabilitation can prevent the same persons from returning to prison repeatedly. It also releases capacity. We will therefore support the proposal of the Labour Party and the Central Party to ask the government to put forward a matter on the content of criminal justice. SV believes it is natural to use alternatives to ordinary prison sentences in some cases, both to relieve the prison system and because it can provide better rehabilitation. In addition, there may be some relief from the pressure on prison capacity. We are aware of the need for more closed places, but when we discuss capacity challenges in criminal services, we need to look at all of the care together. It is the responsibility of Norwegian authorities to ensure that persons who break Norwegian law and who cannot be transferred to settlement in any other country of their country of origin, sonar on a Norwegian basis. The proposal to open up housing abroad — here: The Netherlands — broke with an important principle in Norwegian criminal law. The hearing authorities have been very critical. It shall apply, inter alia, to: the principle of normality and subsidiarity, as it is called. It is an important principle that the existence during the execution of the punishment should be as much as possible equal to the existence or otherwise in society and not more burdensome than necessary. The principle of normality states that criminal services, together with public authorities, shall cooperate to meet the needs of the courts and impose and promote their adaptation to society. Repatriation work begins at the same time as incarceration. This means the establishment of contact with the hub and the workplace, the establishment of leave and play arrangements and contact with the health care system, etc. Atonement in another country is more difficult to implement, and this may lead to a change in the normality principle. It is crucial for good rehabilitation and repatriation that inmates have contact with the welfare services outside prison. Of course, it will also be more difficult to settle abroad. Furthermore, maintaining contact with the family will be more difficult. Contact with the family is important, not only for the rehabilitation of the inmates, but also for the relatives. The burden on the relatives will be greater when they have to travel to a foreign country and deal with a foreign language when visiting a family member in prison. The burden on the relatives must also be included in the consideration of that proposal. Criminal offences committed in prison will necessarily be punishable by the law of the country where a sonar is. If the country in which we rent prisons has more severe criminal and disciplinary reactions than in Norway, we will end up in a situation that challenges the equality of law. In reality, they will insert hosts under two jurisdictions: Dutch and Norwegian. The Ministry suggests that sentences such as sonar in foreign prisons are to be regarded as incarcerated in Norwegian prisons, with the same rights and duties as the latter would have in a Norwegian prison. However, there is uncertainty about how it can be secured. Several hearing bodies are concerned that it would be difficult to guarantee the right to education, the right to individual access to health and care services, equality between health and care services, the role of supervisory authorities and that there are unclear limitations to the responsibility and role of supervisory authorities in the host Member State. Many questions remain unanswered in relation to the proposal submitted. Where hearing authorities here point out that it is unclear who is the target group of the proposal, the answer is: ‘The Ministry will consider laying down detailed rules on the target population [[...]] When the Data Protection Authority has objections to providing personal data to the institution, the answer is to ‘assess the need to amend the regulation [[...]] What this proposal implies, in our view, is also not a reasonable use of money. It is very positive that the government will spend more resources on the capacity challenges and the housing of criminals. First of all, it's going to be $109 million. kr. In the future, we'll have a minimum of 270 million. kr each year was taken out of the country in connection with the contract. It's money that could be spent on permanent investment in criminal matters here in Norway. The government has chosen a solution that is easy to solve, instead of going to work thoroughly to see if there are any other ways to reduce the number of settlement queues. There are legal, ethical and human rights issues related to the agreement that the government has concluded, to which there have not been good enough answers. In sum, SV does not support the proposal under consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e735	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e739	The representative, Solhjell, said that it was the responsibility of the authorities to ensure that there were enough settlements on Norwegian soil. It's really not hard to agree, but then I wonder why the red-greens over eight years have only been able to provide 100 new closed properties. Have you then taken this responsibility seriously, believe?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e744	The first year under the red-green government, the reconciliation queue was built up considerably, and then a new queue has emerged in the last few years, and he increases. That is why it is positive that the government and a total accumulation now feel a responsibility to rebuild the capacity and reduce the cows. What we're now discussing is how we can best and most forward-looking do it. I am fully aware that there is a great need to build up and ensure the capacity within closed places, and that is what we are behind, but we need to find lasting investments that provide good solutions. We thought that concluding an agreement with the Netherlands would not be enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e751	I am following up that idea from the representative of Solhjell, who is quite intrusive. The cost of a housing site in the Netherlands will be approx. NOK 990,000. What alternative use of this money does SV see in order to have a corresponding effect, namely a momentary decrease in the pay queue?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e756	We're going to vote for the proposals that have been made by several of the other parties here now on how we can do it in Norway. We need to use different tools, build capacity within existing prisons, build up the new Agder prison and provide more space — consider different measures that, in total, may increase capacity. I understand the desire to increase capacity quickly and through it e.g. look at a solution with the Netherlands, but after the strong criticism that has emerged and with the significant ethical challenges that have been pointed out, as well as the practical challenges and problems associated with relatives, I think we should rather choose solutions that can improve Norway’s capacity for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e763	Since no other party has asked for a line, the representative Harek Riveres receives a third line.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e766	The representative Solhell was within the normality principle. This is a fundamental principle in criminal matters, for example: the principle of normality. It suggests that the prisoners should have the same offers in prison as they would normally have had outside. It's the very detention that's the punishment. What will not be fulfilled with regard to the normality principle in the Netherlands, i.e. the offer within the prison walls, which would be in Norway? What's the difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e771	I am aware that the prison in question in the Netherlands is a good prison that has a high quality isolation. But the fact that one is far away from its home country, does e.g. the difficulty of contacting relatives, the difficulty of contacting welfare services and those outside prison to prepare the situation after release. It could imply a violation of the normality principle, in my view.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e776	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e779	First, let me thank the Committee for good cooperation, and perhaps in particular, thank the case rapporteur, the Christian People's Party and also the Left, who have been involved in this work, for the efforts that have been made to get this country as well as it has done here. There are many who have contributed very positively. When the government put forward a capacity plan, which is the first of its kind ever, it was to think in the long term. The challenge with previous plans – which have not been presented to the Stortinget – has been that there have been short-term needs that have been governing. Now being able to think decades ahead also shows the importance of planning over time. If you look a little in the rearview mirror and in the history, all the governments that have built prisons have spent a long time — often so long that it is not the government that starts the construction of a prison, which ends the construction of the same prison. The planning time and construction time of the Halden prison are a good example. It was the Justice Minister of Left Odd Einar Dørum who initiated that process, and even though it was the red-green parties that cut the string when the prison doors were opened, this shows some of the fundamental challenges of large construction projects, including that of prisons – that it actually takes time. So I'm more concerned that we're going to be forward looking, than necessarily pointing backwards, but we have an acute situation, in my opinion. And the problem description in this capacity message shows that we have a large maintenance kit – between 3.3 and 4.3 billion. kr, it is stated in the notice. It's a aftermath built over time, by many governments, and by 5 June, the prison queue was 1 117 sentences, according to the KDI. It's a covering so far this year of 98.2 pst. This means that the police are facing challenges in securing custody. The consequences of this would in turn be that persons considered by the police should be held in custody, perhaps not being held in custody. It creates again challenges in terms of overcrowding in police arrests, which is a huge problem, and of which we are not going to have anything, but which, despite an improvement in recent times, we still have too much of. These are also things that can be seen in the context of the major capacity challenges we have. Then there is an almost equal perception – I experience – from the pulpit today of the problem understanding, but there is disagreement about the solutions, and that must be allowed when we talk about politics. Thinking differently about politics must be law. The centre party wants increased release, the Labour Party wants open settlements and electronic control. In the capacity message, it is clear that there is closed settlement capacity that is needed, and then I understand that the Workers' Party and the Centre do not want to close that deviation for criminal reasons, but want to have more focus on open spaces and electronic control. I think that is quite right, I think that is an entirely acceptable political position, but I do not agree with that. I believe it is important that we ensure that we are as good as possible, have the opportunity to obtain the closed capacity that is actually needed. Then I'm glad that the government parties, along with the Christian People's Party, have found what I would call an emergency solution. There is, as the representative Ropstad said, no one who wants to send Norwegian prisoners abroad to punish them there. But it's the absence of other alternatives that can give the same effect as fast, which means that the government has allowed itself to think new and different. So it'll always be like this when new solutions are presented, that it gets resistance. I think that's okay, too. So I believe that the government parties, together with the Christian People's Party, have found the necessary limitations, and that are very much in line with much of the criticism that emerged in the consultation round. What emerged in the consultation round is also relevant concerns, but we are therefore of the opinion that we have now come up with solutions to ensure that this is properly addressed. Then, towards the end, I want to say that I also fully agree with all those who have said that the content of the ransom is important. There is no doubt that having a good content in the settlement, ensuring a good return to society, is crime prevention, and it is also important to see it in the context of what kind of capacity you need for the future. But I also want to say that there isn't really much disagreement, except for the political choice, and we have to accept that, and this is not an area we can solve overnight. There will be major challenges with long-term capacity. We can't rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e798	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e801	I note that the Council of State confirms that the message was not wide, it is only closed capacity we are talking about, and I expect the Minister of Justice to inform his colleagues at Stortinget that it was neither a broad capacity plan nor a broad criminal record, because I think your colleagues are a little confused about the use of concepts. At least they'll use it around each other in the setting. I want to draw attention to the recording that came from PST. The Minister of Justice is very concerned about combating terrorism and radicalisation. PST writes in its hearing response: ‘Although a person would be convicted and imprisoned for a criminal offence, he could still pose a threat. For example, there may be convicted terrorists who belong to an extreme radicalized environment. [[...]] In the case of a residency abroad, such a collection of information will be more difficult.» PST called for solutions such as regulatory attachment or legal attachment. The Minister of Justice has not commented on this in his proposal. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e814	Firstly, persons to be zoned in the Netherlands will be subject to individual review. It'll be a completely individual screening of each one to see that all the demands and expectations that we as a society can make are met even by settlement in the Netherlands. There should be no difference between the zone in a department of a Norwegian prison in the Netherlands and the zone in the same prison in Norway. Therefore, it is not necessarily the case that there is a need for a separate authorisation to ensure that certain persons are not transferred. This is a follow-up that criminal services will take on a case-by-case basis and weigh the different considerations against each other. Overall, it will also be absolutely crucial in relation to the issues of human rights that have also been raised in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e819	I note that the Minister refers to the target group discussion that is going on both in the proposition and also in the vote. I also record that the majority need to write in the vote that they assume a lot of things about this with target groups. I can imagine that won't reassure the PST, even if I'm not going to undertake to make their assessments. However, they say that close follow-up is essential in such a process in order to seek to prevent the development of negative thinking, and that such a task can best be achieved by settlement in Norway. The PST has therefore given its clear advice that they will have an assessment of them as zones, through a regulation ceremony and law – it has not been assessed by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e824	That was probably more a statement than a question, but I'd like to comment on the observation. As the representative is aware, there is now a great deal of work to be done, for example: to have mentoring arrangements in Norwegian prisons. It is allocated to it in the context of the revised national budget, just to follow up the type of prisoner the representative is occupied with. Clearly, it is not appropriate to transfer persons who need such a follow-up in a Norwegian prison to a Norwegian prison with a branch abroad. So I think that the concerns of the PST will be adequately addressed, and I am pleased that the Stortinget is so clear in its assessments relating to which target groups they believe should be given priority for restitution under such circumstances. So I think we should all be happy, even if we don't agree with the methodology, that from 1 September we get 242 new closed spaces, if everything goes according to plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e831	I note that the Minister of Justice has not found it necessary to make any exceptions for the group we are talking about here. I would like to reiterate the question that I asked the case-rapporteur about the timing of the start of the construction of prisons in Agder. We have heard from the government parties here that they are impatient, while I believe that what has been delivered is relatively incomplete. The message is not wide. A good deal of objections has not been raised and the timing of start-up is not mentioned at all. But the government is very good at delivering new plans and new investigations to the Stortinget. Can the Minister tell the Stortinget when it's going to start building prisons in Agder?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e840	I think it is a little sad that the representative Henriksen focuses on what she thinks is a lack and inadequacy of the notification. The cancellation notice is an innovation. It invites Stortinget to – at the overall level – discuss the capacity needs of criminal services for many decades to come. It's never been done before. I mean the discussion we now have, in itself is a strength. The attitude that the Committee has given, which is very good in many areas, I believe there was an absolute need for us to make a notification, with the level of precision of the notification. I do not agree that the message is not wide. I do not agree that the message does not take over what a capacity message should do. I mean it does – if I had not provided it. Then I understand that the Workers' Party believes it should contain even more, be even more concrete. That's the foundation for what we're going to do in the future, which is in the message. Concrete start-up times, appropriations, etc. The government will of course come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e851	The Council of State is well aware that the Left has been critical of reconciliation in the Netherlands, and that the reason why we will not vote for it today is that, in the ultimate sense, it is at risk of forcing Norwegian citizens to settle abroad. But we in the Left have also been concerned that we should reduce the use of smooth cells, and were therefore willing to extend to make an agreement with the government about this. We have to recognise that increasing the capacity of criminal services can have a positive effect, with a view to reducing the number of exceedances. I am very pleased that the Council of State in its statement was so clear that we are not going to have transfers, because it is not a desired situation for anyone, nor for the Council of State, who is responsible when the state commits human rights violations through these transfers. My question to the Council of State is: What can we expect in terms of the decline in the number of transfers due to the places in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e860	I very much agree with the representative, Mr Nybø, on the grounds and background to the question. At the same time, I hope to understand that I can't give any concrete estimate for this, because it will depend on a lot of different things, among other things. How many new judges we get. We are now streamlining the criminal action chain. We're getting more police lawyers and more state lawyers. We'll get a strengthened court. The chain is likely to help a sheep condemn more criminals. We've seen the last time that, despite the fact that we've increased our capacity, we haven't had the expected decline in the pay queue. So there's a lot of different relationships that point out this. What I'm sure is that being able to use 242 more places will contribute to a significant oiling of this whole machine. The purpose must be that this should also be effective in terms of custody sites – it again as a consequence of a reduction in the number of deposits. In addition, much other work is being done to ensure a reduction in the number of spillovers, including: by the Advocate General, who has now come up with new guidelines. We're also going to follow up on the verdict from Oslo District Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e869	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e872	I would also like to thank the case spokesman for the work and the cooperation with the other parties in this matter. There are big, important fundamental discussions, and there are also some smaller, local discussions. The working party is occupied by both open and closed prisons in Norway, and by the fact that one should increase the use of alternative forms of settlement, which the committee also received during the hearing on the case. I think it's unfortunate that a cop in the penance zone. I think it's critical that you add up to the duplication of prison cells. There is no doubt that the big debate here today is about the Netherlands, and I think it is a very bad idea to send Norwegian charter aircraft to Norwayrhaven in the Netherlands. In our alternative, we, as many people have, can get far more permanent prisons here in Norway. Then the case spokesperson realized that it is important that we also talk about those who are victims of crime. I'm very much in agreement with him. Perhaps we should do this more often in the debates on criminal policy. Then I think it is also important to think that we want criminals who are being punished to have the right punishment. But it must be a goal that the criminals should be less criminals after atonement than before atonement. This may also be a bit of a reason why we disagree with some of the tools used. There was probably a big mood in Agder when the representative Ropstad got to present the plans for prison in Agder. Let me stress that the Workers' Party is very positive and very happy with the plans in Agder – and has been providing it for a long time. What we're not in, is that new places and new prisons in Agder get to go at the expense of places in Telemark. As they know, there's a suggestion in the message to move 28 places at Kleivgrend in Fyresdal to Evje in Agder. We want more space in Evje, but we don't want it to be put in Telemark. As a magnificent representative from Telemark, I have to admit that I am asking myself some questions as to whether we have little left to have telemarks in the government apparatus. Both Røe Isaksen and Bård Hoksrud are in the government apparatus, and I found it strange that not, at least, the position politicians were aware of this, because it was in the message. But I'm clear. The central part of the working party doesn't want to put those places in Fyresdal. There is a proposal on the subject today, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, for which we are a little pleased, because it postpones the closure. However, the proposal also confirms that 50 years of experience and competence in the forest camp in Fyresdal will now be converted into a purely temporary measure until the department is phased out. So today's proposal is that we wait a little – but the department should shut down. The information we have received professionally does not mean that one should drop the section in Kleivgrend. It's probably the cheapest settlement in Norway, with less than $1,000 a day. Prisons can show very good results, among other things. in the case of transfers to electronic premises, where they may be among the best in the country. This was said by the representative in his post that he was busy with. In addition, we see that the department has a very good cooperation with the surrounding municipalities, together with Nav, with regard to job hunting, together with the diaconital services in West Telemark, which means a great deal to them. All members of the committee may also have received invitations from the NFF, which makes it clear that they do not want to move these places either. They say that the department is schooling through a professional course, and has great success with it. They also point to the disproportionateness that it is now becoming, with the government's proposal, in an open adjourn versus closed adjournment. They think it's pointless, when one sees that atonement forms such as home soning, the use of electronic control and the transition dwelling work very well too many. They also indicate that Title Kleivgrend is the branch of the country that produces most sub-transmitters, cf. Free care in Agder. I agree with the NFF, who wrote to us that they believed that one had gone away from the idea that putting himself into atoning and having some sort of care for life should be put in a closed prison. They're also pointing out that the needlehole for open areas is now getting smaller. This was a clean telemark post, but I needed to keep it. I want to end by saying that we are not in any way opposed to establishing prisons in Evje, but that Kleivgrend should have the right to life in a human Norwegian prison. I know that I have the whole telemark bench in me.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e891	The President considers that there is reason to provide a case-by-case statement. It is that Bård Hoksrud is not in the government apparatus, but took the seat as a staging representative with effect from a little above noon. 11 on Friday. The President will also refer to letters that were read by the President just before voting on Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e894	Previous speaker's posts were almost as tailor-made for the prestigious newspaper Dølen. I have to repeat what I said in the line change with Bård Vegar Solhjell: The working party and the centre party clarify in their comments that it is the task of the state to ensure that we have enough closed settlements. Why, then, were the red-greens unable to provide more than 100 closed shelters in eight years? Lack of deployment of closed prison sites and inadequate maintenance during the 2005–2013 period is the main reason for the state of emergency in the criminal justice system. In a year and a half, the right-wing Party government has released a total of 130 closed prisons. 242 places in the Netherlands and a net of 500 new places by 2020 say that the new fees in the Ministry of Justice are far better than the old ones. It is in the interest of the convicted and in the interest of society that we can start settlements quickly. It is precisely in this context that the government is intensifying efforts to bring down the reconciliation queue, without weakening the general preventive effect of the punishment and without going along with social security. Here there is a political distinction between government and the Workers' Party. The working party has fallen into the criminal-liberal trail and will follow this quite far. More open shelters are not the answer to the situation regarding the queue. The Workers' Party has introduced new forms of reconciliation. I need to know what that must mean. Is it possible to release the prisoners? It's ours. «Get the prisoners free, it's spring», which was sung in the Swedish film on the liberalisation of the Swedish prison system in the 1970s. The structural standard in many prisons is simply distrustful. A maintenance seat towing of 4 billion. kr is just another expression of direct maturity. It's an inheritance from the red-green that's heavy to bear for this government. The Government granted 50 million in the State budget for 2014-2015. kr extra as a start to resume maintenance detention in prison. That's not enough, but at least it's a good start. And listen to this, taken from the comments: the Workers' Party and the Center Party expect the government to start rapidly building new prisons in Agder, Ålesund, Mosjöen and the Eastern region. Clearly, no self-evident power can be expressed. So you expect far more of the sitting government than what you yourself were near to deliver. We see this as a direct declaration of trust to the sitting government, and we do not disappoint: 370 closed prisons in two years against the red-green government 100 in eight years. It's hard to hear!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e914	Criminal services are doing a great job today for all those who today pay their punishments in Norwegian prisons. Over my nearly two years in the Justice Committee, I have had the pleasure of traveling around the country and meeting employees and prisoners, and this has made a strong impression on me. They have many stories that have been about poor employment and poor reconciliation. We've seen prisons in decline, with building technology challenges, where there are cells without toilet, cells without shower, etc. We have seen areas, both outdoors and indoors, that do not meet the standards we can expect Norwegian prisons to have today. We have heard both employees and prisoners who say that they have not been given the opportunity to take good education, go to work when they have been in prison, and not least to have a good and healthy diet. It's about those in prison not just building muscles. They also need to build knowledge in order to meet society after it has ended. The Norwegian prison is a reflection of the society we live in. It's about the cultural diversity we have in a modern society. Among employees and prisoners in Norwegian prisons, there is a much wider range of linguistic diversity, different religions and cultural specialities. Therefore, human and modern criminal care is important, and one must have an ethical standard that will provide employees and prisoners with good employment and good living conditions. The Labour Party, like everyone else, is committed to having a capacity that allows one to have a good criminal record in our country. And we'll stress that it concerns both open and closed settlements. The working party disagrees with the need to have a double of cells. So what could that lead to? All feedback says that new people who come in and live with others are affected in terms of violence, assault, fear, etc., which does not help them to become better citizens of society, but that one might get bigger challenges after an end of settlement. The Labour Party will use all the money that will now be used in the Netherlands to build new places in Norway. Not only do we want to spend money, but we also want to spend the time it has taken and the resources used to plan this, to plan and build new places in Norway. Having been and visited many of these open places, I think there are important places for settlements we have. We know that the majority of those who live in Norway today zone less than 100 days. Everyone who is currently in Norwegian prisons will at some point become neighbors of us living in society. Then it's important that they become good neighbors of those who live in our society. The Labour Party records that the government is finally following up the government’s recommendation to build two prisons in Agder, but we would point out that it has taken two years to follow the good recommendations, two years that could have been used for something else, among other things. to prepare the construction of new closed and open shelters. I would also like to remind you that the Workers' Party proposed it by electronic means. That would have contributed 50 places, and we think that is a good alternative form of reconciliation for those who are going to zone less than 100 days in Norwegian prisons today. The working party, like most of the respondents, is very critical of moving or exporting Norwegian prisoners to the Netherlands. We record that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are also on this issue on collision courses with professional hearing bodies and the relatives' organisations. The Labour Party is committed to having a strict and fair punishment, which is to be preventative, so that people do not commit criminal acts. Then you can ask yourself what is important in criminal execution. Are there closed prisons, open prisons or finding a good offer adapted to the individual in relation to the penalty he has received?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e942	Finally, we are receiving a comprehensive and long-term capacity overview for criminal justice in Stortinget. It was something we in opposition – from the Right, the Advance Party and several other parties – wanted from the red-green government for many years. But the answers we received each time from the government councils of the Workers' Party were that this was such an important question that we had to look from budget to budget – that is, short-term. Now we finally get a comprehensive overview and the possibility of long-term planning in such an important field. Crime in the country is going down. That's good. But serious, resource-intensive, brutal, international and organised crime is increasing. It's not good at all. This government is strengthening the police. It will increase the capacity of the police to detect the serious crime. It's a backstop that's important when we're about to deal with three important challenges like this big message and these issues. So the first challenge is that there is a great need for more closed spaces. Serious criminal acts shall lead to detention in enclosed areas, to closed settlements. At the same time, as we all know, the need for more custody places is increasing as a result of the crime scene and the increased police capacity, and detention facilities are closed. So the need for closed spaces increases. It's this message very clearly, and it takes the government into account in a very good and offensive way. Then I record that the response from the Workers' Party is 179 open spaces and electronic control – far from some medicine based on the diagnosis being made. The second challenge is the legacy of the maintenance of Norwegian prisons and detention centres. About 4 billion. kr is the processed maintenance seat suspension on. There is a high risk and danger that several Norwegian prison departments will have to close, which in turn will further increase the need for closed sites. The working party's response to the increased maintenance needs is NOK zero. The government's answer is 100 million. kr in the last two years. That's not enough, but it's a good step in the right direction. The third challenge is that between 1,100 and 1,200 people today are waiting for their lives. They end up in a vacuum of life that we know too well – and unfortunately – leading to a large increase in the risk of relapses into new crime. It's important to reduce the reconciliation that we've inherited from the red-green. In this way, the agreement with the Netherlands is important. It leads in the short term to 242 new and closed shelters. The working party said no. This is an important matter, which has been discussed by many. The government shows a good and offensive attitude to solving many challenges, and I want to commend the form of work and cooperation that has been established in this matter among the majority here in this Chamber, and in particular highlight the Christian People's Party, which has really taken the responsibility of solving these challenges. This is not a matter where there are winners, but it is a matter where the government shows action, and where we reduce major challenges in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e959	It's not possible to go to jail for a safer society, and that's what's weak about the Right Party and the Progress Party's policy, as well as the Christian People's Party today for incomprehensible reasons well to stand back. The government party has said several times during this debate that the big message that is being debated is about capacity – it is not about quality, and it is not about content. Therefore, they would also prefer not to discuss it today. But it is also a political choice. It is a value option to provide a bulk message that is only about capacity and not about quality - not about content, not about alternative forms of reconciliation. It is also a political choice that when the government for the first time places criminal services on the agenda of the Stortinget, it is without reference to new measures or reinforcements on the content page or quality page. From there, the Labour Party takes responsibility. That is why we are presenting an own representative proposal that focuses on this very thing, just as we took responsibility when we were in the government. The representative of Ellingsen thinks that Halden Prison took ten years to build, and debts on the Labour Party for it, but the fact is that Halden Prison took time to build because the Progress Party trained that time, as they practice today, as they contracted and trained until the agreement they now have with the Netherlands, after having been rejected by Sweden, instead of using the two years that have now gone by, to build in Norway and find solutions on Norwegian soil. Under Stoltenberg II, the settlement queue was more than halved and 750 new settlement sites were established. So the Right Party and the Advance Party want to make it like the Workers' Party's proposals are just about having more open places, more alternative forms of reconciliation. That's wrong. The representative of the Rivers went as far as singing from this pulpit with a voice that could scare a bear, and wondered if the Labour Party would release the prisoners. It's also wrong. In our proposal we suggest that we build, among other things, within existing walls – money for Skien prison, money for Halden prison, money for initiating Agder prison. This is how we use the money that the government here proposes to send to the Netherlands. What we are doing with our proposal is that we see the soundness of the country's capacity needs in criminal matters. We present proposals relating to both open prisons, closed prisons and quality and content of soning. With the Workers' Party's proposal, we would have 100 more seats per year than the Right, the Advance Party and now the Christian People's Party sheep, every year. That means over the next five years we would have 500 more places. It is clear that this is relevant to the length of the reconciliation queue. Instead, the Right and Advance will send 1 billion. DK out of the country for a temporary solution in the Netherlands. Then I also register that the Right Party and the Advance Party play down the meaning of the reconciliation abroad can have. They suggest that prison in the Netherlands is a good prison. Then they assume quite a heavy responsibility. The police security service warns against this form of reconciliation because it may affect their ability to prevent radicalisation, to closely follow up on individuals who may pose a risk. In our time, it's funny to see that the government has this willingness to take such a risk on behalf of the country. In short, the difference between the Labour Party's proposal, and the Right and Advance Party, with the support of the Christian People's Party, suggests that the Labour Party propose 335 seats, while the Right and Advance Party propose 242 seats. Our proposal is permanent solutions, permanent places, their proposals are temporary places. Our proposal is solutions in Norway, they are solutions in the Netherlands. Our proposal is about quality, not just about quantity, as their proposals do. They will send hundreds of millions of dollars out of Norway, while we will use your and my – our – tax money to solve these problems in Norwegian soil. They're taking the chance to send criminals out for apologies in the Netherlands, in spite of clear advice from the police security service. We have put forward proposals for better control of ideologically driven criminals. It means, in sum, that our proposals make Norway safer, while the Right Party and the Progress Party take the time from criminals and hope that crime will pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e974	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e977	St.meld. No 37 for 2007–08 Punishment that works, as presented by the Red-Green Government, is one of the most important documents we have in order to create a safer society. There is no one in this room who disagrees that when someone violates the law, they must be punished. In Norway, it is the very detention that is the punishment. But if we are to create a society with less crime and more security, the punishment must also work. Therefore, this debate cannot be about capacity alone; it must also be about quality and content. Those who are sons must have tools to live a life without crime. It's the best thing for individuals, it creates security for all of us, and it's also a good economy for society. On the Mulder Island home in Valdres, there is a prison where the good intentions of the criminal service report are realized every day. It's in many ways a unique little prison that delivers very good results. Cooperation with high school, municipality and local business has resulted in very many people leaving prison with tools to start a new life without crime. That's why many of us were mobilizing when we saw that the prison was threatened last year. Both prisoners, employees and the community were strongly committed. First came the government's efficiency cut in criminal custody, and then the criminal services themselves proposed to put the whole department down. We were not less concerned when we read the report on the capacity of criminal services, which says that ‘smaller units should be replaced by fewer and larger units’. That is why it is very positive that a unanimous committee now says that closure is not appropriate, and that the committee would rather want to double the number of settlements on the island of Slide Island. However, an extension on the Slide Island – and all the other places where the Workers' Party in the setting shows that there are opportunities – is not realized with good intentions, but by granting money. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that the government will spend a quarter of a billion dollars each year on temporary rental of premises in the Netherlands. This money would be wiser to spend on building up permanent capacity in Norway. The bourgeois parties describe many good intentions, but the question is when these places in Norway can be realised – when sending a quarter of a billion dollars to the Netherlands at the same time. Real action would have been to spend this money building up sustainable capacity in our own country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e992	It is interesting to follow the debate here today on the challenges we face in criminal matters. There is no doubt that the biggest challenge we have – if we are to listen to the Directorate of Criminal Affairs and not to political representatives – is closed places. I am dealing with the professional recordings and recordings we have received through the message, which show that there are closed spaces that are most needed. The right-wing Party government has taken this challenge seriously from the moment they entered the government offices. Only in the 2015 budget, criminal enforcement capacity was increased by 45 permanent prisons, and we have allocated 100 million. kr in exceptional means of maintenance over two years. However, due to the lack of prioritisation of criminal services by the previous government, temporary and immediate solutions to the capacity challenges need to be found. That's why we rent 242 prisons in the Netherlands. This is a temporary agreement, pending the construction of new sites in Norway. Norwayrhaven prison will have the Norwegian Director, and the employees will be trained in Norwegian criminal execution, under the direction of the Education Centre of the Criminal Office. In addition, there is a requirement that there should always be employees working in English. But it is important to bear in mind that there are language challenges also in Norwegian prisons today. Far from all prisoners speak Norwegian. Progress and repatriation of the prisoner to society will also have to be taken into account in the implementation of punishments in another country. When I hear the critical comments of the representatives from the opposition, I ask myself if we have read the same proposition and heard the same representatives from Norwayrhaven comment. After the meeting we had with the management in Norwayrhaven prison, I am quite certain that sending our prisoners to the Netherlands will not be a violation of human rights. Norgesrhaven prison has a well-developed prison work organisation that allows for various forms of work training. Not least, prisons have a high quality building that is well at the height of quality in Norwegian prisons. The Health Directorate has also been in and overseeing what conditions will be for the prisoners. Then you have received feedback that it will be okay. I am very pleased that the government has done what it has done, that there have been few increases in capacity in Norway today. It's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1003	I was challenged by others, including The chairperson of the Committee, Tajik, and the representative of Wagslid, on the grounds that a supporter of the Netherlands does not address alternative forms of reconciliation, and that there is a lack of focus on content. I think that's the wrong criticism. As I was in my post, I would like to have a big message about the content of criminal justice. I would have been happy for that. But I am very pleased that today we have the opportunity to discuss the capacity challenges and the solutions to them. When you talk about alternative forms of reconciliation, we promise §12-soning – we want more of it. We're referring to the juvenile punishment. That's what we think is good, that works and that we should use even more of. We refer to electronic control. There's an evaluation going on, and we hope that's something we can expand the use of. We refer you to the conflict council. There is something we believe that it is good for society, that it is prevention, that it can prevent a person from getting more crime, and that it is something we want to strengthen by asking the government to follow up with funds. We have not least one proposal, which I think is very exciting, in terms of welfare bonds – where one will have public and private cooperation and actually get results. The non-governmental organisations ask us to provide a guarantee sum, and they collect private sponsors, and if they achieve results, they get refunded – a great deal of action, for which we have proposals for decisions today. That we do not have anything left to support the proposal on the Netherlands, I strongly disagree. Firstly, I would like to say that it is a good measure, or the only measure, that can solve the challenges now. As many people have been in it, we need closed spaces. Now we get that. Secondly, we now have a Roman number decision that there will be a plan for 500 new places plus 500, if any, to replace old places. And if it's not well paid, I don't know. I think there's a few parties that can stand here and say that they've provided maybe 1,000 new places in five years. I don't think any games can do that. So in collaboration with the Right Party and the Advance Party, that's what we've ended up with. And as I pointed out in my post, it means that we point to Haugesund, Ålesund, Oslo, Valdres, Mosjöen, Bergen, Skien, Halden, Åna and Trondheim. In some places, 100 sites can be built within existing walls; elsewhere, new prisons are needed. Then we get a plan for treatment next year. I think that's well paid, because it solves the precarious situation in the short term, and we solve it in the long term. Some claim that we only send money to the Netherlands – that is wrong. That's the same price that we had to pay to have them as compensation today. It's not money we could spend on construction – it's money that's needed for them to zone. That is why they cannot only be transferred to Norway. They are used for manning. The Christian People's Party is very pleased with the package we have here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1023	I would like to say that there is one thing in particular that Commissioner Tajik said from the pulpit that I very much agree with, and that, I believe, there is very broad support for the whole of the Storting: ‘It is not possible to go to jail for a safer society.’ That’s why both the government and this room are very concerned that one should ensure a breadth in the approach to the fight against crime in general. It also doesn't mean that you can't focus on what you need for reconciliation in the future. Atonement capacity and the interrelationship between crime, conviction and acquittal are crucial for its prevention. I also believe, although it was not quite clear in Tajik's speech, that there is a great deal of consensus that there is also a link between capacity and quality. The challenge now is that the capacity is so low that it challenges the quality too much. I think that's important premise to bring with me. The representative of Vågslid was also concerned with the difference between closed and open shelters. Others have been involved. We today feel that there is a pressure in the open areas, precisely because the pressure on the closed areas is too high. That means that you might get an unintentional, at least inappropriate, movement of different categories of prisoners that we really don't want. To zone in an open prison is something quite different than to zone in a closed prison. We need to have a balanced capacity, which enables one to secure the necessary progress in settlement, while at the same time having access to those groups of detention centres that it is necessary to have in order to ensure that a non-pressing person who should really be in a closed facility, early out of such a closed facility. Therefore, this capacity plan is so important and wide because it focuses on where the problems are greatest. And I am very pleased that the Storting is very clear that where open spaces are laid down, one must also ensure that one has a capacity increase for the corresponding type of spaces, in order for that capacity balance to be good in the future. The use of electronic control is an important point. In 2014 it was 77 pst. capacity utilisation, while in closed prison it was about 98 pst. This year, after we have asked for measures to be implemented to improve capacity utilisation also at EK, it looks as if the first quarter of 2015 is a capacity utilisation of about 92,6 pst. So there too the government has taken hold. When it comes to the number of places, in which the representative Tajik goes into, I've just looked at the setting. If I deal with it, it's electronic control, court-run drug programs, conflict councils, fines and design fees plus $4 million. kr for posts. I can sum it up to zero closed prison places in 2015, but it is possible that there is something that is not stated in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1038	I can assure the representative, Tajik, that when she is in the pulpit, the position in her mood does not fall asleep. To that, there's too much to deal with in general, and also this time. Time will limit what I can go into, but I have a couple of things that I absolutely have to clarify here. No, big-time representative, we're not going to jail for a safer society, but prison is necessary for the sake of social protection. It is not sufficient, but it is absolutely necessary, along with other instruments. Secondly, we are not sending money out of the country. This is not a project directed by Export Finance. We pay for prison places, prison places that we are not able to get as fast as we can get in the Netherlands. One thing that hasn't been up in the debate is that actually one third of the prisoners in Norwegian prisons are foreigners, people who don't have Norwegian citizenship. They do not require the same rehabilitation facility and return facility as Norwegian prisoners. Many of those who are intended to zone in the Netherlands are not going back to Norway, nor are they entitled to the same offers in prison as Norwegian prisoners, for example. further training. It is clear from the proposition that convictions in a training course should not be a zone in the Netherlands. I would think that many of the people who need to zone in the Netherlands are getting reconciliations that are far better than the settlement conditions in which they must have found themselves in their own country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1049	I have had the pleasure of discussing justice policy with the Labour Party for 14 years. As I said before, they're as predictable now as they were then. It often reminds us of a treatment method used in the old days, i.e. irradiation. You don't get any better yourself, but for those who perform the treatment, you seem to succeed. Once again, I perceive that one focuses on solutions that are reasonable and cheap, and that outwardly show some kind of symbolic power of action. That's not what this is about. What it's all about is that you have a whole set of rules that can be used, so you can do something with those who commit the most serious criminal acts, and make sure you have enough prison places. The Labour Party was in government and led the government for eight years. Did they solve the problem? Obviously not. But the recognition of it today is all about everything else. We're told that, yes, we've been investing in the construction of prisons in Agder. Where is this draft budget? Where did the government propose last time when they were in government to build prisons in Agder? I haven't seen such a suggestion. Then I hear you're talking about Telemark and you're worried about Fyresdal. I have full respect and understanding for that. At the same time, it is well a fact that today's government is planning to build up to 100 new places in the Skien prison. That's at least the way I've seen it. That it is bad, I take note – at least I record that there is no special focus on it. But okay enough. Then I heard the committee leader say that you can't get away from the problems. Of course you can, but nobody wants it. There's no one at all who wants it. Crime can also be eliminated — by repealing the penal code. Then you've solved it. But I don't think it's going to be any fun here afterwards. I don't think I want to be here. But, of course, there are different policy solutions to different political problems. The good thing about our system is that it's a system that balances reaction to the action that the individual has done. And for our part, when I see the suggestion of letting people loose in the past again while they're zoned, we think it's a bad solution, mainly because it's boring on the victims. It is troubling those who are victims of the same crime that have caused some to be convicted. The second is that when a court has measured a penalty, at least some of us think it's okay that you actually sit there the time you're convicted. Everything else is giving some kind of discount, which is trotting on the victims, because you have to find a solution to something you can't solve otherwise. That's when you make special arrangements. No one has done this to a greater extent than the Workers' Party. I'm not going to mention the name, but there's a giant representative in this house who's probably the world champion in the penalty discount. Then the Workers' Party can say that yes, we are now establishing 179 new places. I'd say it's creative bookkeeping. I would say that there is once again a symbolic solution from the Workers' Party without substance. Let me repeat what the representative of the Elves said instead – it's almost tempting to do like him, but I have as bad singing voice, so I'm going to leave it alone – the Labour Party is creative, but the solutions are not there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1067	The backbone of this proposal and of the decision taken today is that the Christian People's Party, with its support, ensures a great victory for the ideological policy of the Progress Party: send them away. Other countries are forward-looking, with new measures and new ideas. Belgium will terminate its agreement with the Netherlands. Governments therefore go not only across key consultation bodies in Norway, but also across the European trend. It is a fact that this measure requires exceptions to current legislation, except the Penal Code. That means that when the position says that we have the same values that form the basis, that's not right. Had the same values been in force, there would have been no need for exceptions to today's law. The representative, Mr Werp, was concerned that the Labour Party's answer was that one had to see this 'from budget to budget', and it was supposed to be so bad. The only thing I have heard from the government in this matter is that the solutions will come from budget to budget, or in addition we can say that they will come from plan to plan. It's not a single word about money, not a single word about the timing of execution. So a little bit to this with alternative criminal enforcement and closed places. The Committee has joint comments describing the need for more criminal enforcement mechanisms, which describe the need for a varied set of instruments and the need for a person to take into account when talking about what is working in criminal matters or not. We're talking about custody sentences and progression, and we're talking about young people, and we're in line with the fact that it's important. When there are questions about closed prison sites, we can also ask the question to the position: Could we have got more before? We get a bamboo from the Harek Rivers because we want too much, but it obviously won't government. There's neither money nor time here. The trade mark argument is important. We've almost agreed with the government there in the past. We had an intermediate solution between the Left and Government proposals that were clearer and tighter. We agree that it must be followed closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1084	The Minister of Justice emphasises that one has zero closed new prisons in Norway in 2015. There is a situation in which the government has seen us because they have spent the last two years sending love letters – first to Sweden and then to the Netherlands, were rejected in Sweden, and then negotiated a lease with Dutch government powers – in a situation where there are actually planned solutions in Norway. We're ready to build in Norway. We believe that when there is first money available that can be used to solve the settlement queue, they should also be used on Norwegian soil, in Norwegian context, including among others. the suggestions we're making here. With the solutions planned, the government could – if they had properly prioritised the money and the effort, instead of sending these love declarations – put in place at least 200 closed prisons in Norway over the course of these two years. They have then chosen not to do so. I want to say something more about the Netherlands and the procedure to the government, because there is a procedure that has been under all criticism. It is an agreement that was negotiated on the same day that the government's hearing period was out. They signed the agreement the day before Stortinget had a hearing. It shows that for the Progress Party and the Minister of Justice, this has always been more about introducing a whole new principle of criminal execution – an old Progress Party-wisdom about sending people out to atoning out of the country – than getting the cows down faster. Therefore, this unfortunate and wasted time spent in a situation they call acute. They could get permanent solutions in Norwegian soil over the last two years; they could get permanent solutions in Norwegian soil with these money here now – 100 more places per year – instead they choose a temporary solution. They do well to send your and my tax money out of the country. Once again, it turns out that for the Minister of Justice of the Progress Party, it is more important to act than actually to be, and actually to bring down the reconciliation queue as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1095	We are approaching the end of an important and I would say really quite good debate. We've come up with clear differences in political opinions, and that's okay, but I also want to say that, after all, there's a lot of consensus in the matter of the problem description itself, whether there's an inequality in the solutions. There are a few things I want to comment on. First, to Mr Henriksen, who points to budgets and that the Labour Party has clearly found budgetary resources to solve this long ago. No, the Labour Party has not. In the party's alternative budget for the current year, there is not a single penny for the prison in Agder or for other increases in the capacity of criminal services. So to another underlying disturbance for the criminal justice system. It is the capacity plan, which was drawn up under the red-green government in 2012. In the capacity plan, which the Labour Party Council did not want to present to the Storting, 29 housing facilities – 29 prisons – were placed on a list of possible closures because they did not meet the criteria of the unit structure, which is the professional concept of that capacity plan. 29 prisons — with the unrest it caused, and in fact has led to up to these days, in recruitment problems and the working environment in general. This big message, as our government is presenting, clears that question. And it has emerged, at least in a few cases, saving angels from the Workers' Party, both in the case of Kleivgrend and West Uppland prison, department Valdres. Both prisons were on the Workers' Party's own list from 2012 to fail to meet the criteria of the unit structure, so they were threatened with closure. It's not this government, it was the previous government, that placed them there, along with 27 other important and good institutions in Norwegian criminal care. It's an important part of the history description that you can use to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1106	The representative of Haarek Rivers has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1109	The reason why I take the floor is the Workers' Party's attachment to producing the settlement in the Netherlands as 'unworthy'. It's almost unworthy in itself. We know that housing conditions in the Netherlands, and in Norway, develop in an international interaction based on international conventions and standards with a humanistic view at the bottom. This will be met in the Netherlands as well as in Norway. We also need to remember that the Netherlands has actually been a criminal policy country in the first place, including within the prison system.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1114	As the representative Werp was in the room, and as I was in the past, there is a lot of agreement in this setting, and I think that is very positive and good. That is why I am also a little surprised by this violent aggression by the chairman of the committee. When I commented that the Workers' Party's recipe in the setting resulted in zero new closed places in Norway in 2015, it was therefore the starting point of the Workers' Party I took – not the government. The government's policy leads to 41 new places being built in Norway in 2015, and the Workers' Party has not proposed a single penny in its alternative budget for several closed prison sites in Norway. I think it's actually going to be a bit of a strange skin debate, which really doesn't address what's the main challenge, even though I understand that the Labour Party disagrees with the Netherlands solution. It is a political choice, and I respect it, but I cannot understand that it should require such aggression as the committee's chairman expresses here. I want to clarify a significant difference: the money that is now being spent in the Netherlands is used for the operation of 242 detention centres. Spending the same money on investments in Norway will, in addition, lead to operating costs. So I look forward to the Workers' Party in its alternative state budgets prioritizing criminal care at a whole new level compared to what they have done so far in this period. What they have done is to support the proposals for appropriations presented by the government — with some very small adjustments related to child contact at prisons today. It is important to note that what we now receive should not be at the expense of what we get in Norway, but that scheme in the Netherlands ensures that we get about the same operating costs as the corresponding operation of the corresponding number of places in Norway would provide. It solves an emergency challenge in 2015, which we would otherwise have to wait for many, many, many years before being solved. That would mean that the acute situation we are now in would persist – and that is where I believe that the Workers' Party has not explained how to resolve it within the limits that they themselves have put in the position. But as I mentioned, there may be other things, which are not in the setting, which also have to be given weight. I didn't get that from the pulpit either. I have to say that it's enough that we define ‘neighbourhood’ differently in the government parties and the Christian People's Party than what one does in the Workers' Party, when one believes that zero places in 2015 – versus 242, plus 41 – should be more effective. The working force of the Workers' Party, under Stoltenberg I, was promoted release and the opening of Odd Einar Dørum's prison in Halden. So I think it's better to focus on what we can do for the future than to try to leave someone behind as a replyer. This is a challenge. We stand together and have to find the best solutions, and there are different political angles to those solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1129	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1132	Thank you for that. I don't need more than one minute, because the Council of State came up with a lot of the points that I wanted to draw up, especially that the money for 242 places is operational. I see, when it's argued about in different media, that one says that one should use it for investment, and that's not right, as the Council of State said. But now I took the floor because there's been a discussion about Kleivgrend. In today's vote, under I, we are asking for a phase-out plan and an upgrade plan. The consequence of that is that one is likely to put down quite a number of prisons, because 45 pst. of the building mass not suitable. Something might be fixed, while others need to be phased out, and that's appropriate. We want those debates all the time, and that's why we're going to get into that issue in the next round, next spring. Then we also have a challenge in that case with Kleivgrend: There is my clear experience that I did not get any recordings on the way until the decision was made, and it also means that we have to have good processes up to the next spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1141	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1144	After most of them have made multiple contributions, we can conclude that there are no concrete solutions from the government – there is no money, there is no timeline – and as to how the Netherlands can address the human rights concerns that many people have pointed out, the burden of proof lies on the government and the Christian People's Party. When it comes to consensus, it is produced as if there is a consensus on what has been traditional criminal policy for many years. That's not right. There's no consensus on the long lines. Important traditions and values are now breaking. So with regard to budgetary adjustments, we have tried to get an overview of these costs on repeated questions to the Minister, over a long time, just to get money into the budget. The minister has always told us that it cannot be put in place until we have the agreement with the Netherlands. The reconciliation queue went down by 2,423 people in our first year of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1155	It is a paradox that the Labour Party in the opposition spends so much time, effort and attention on measures that it considers not to be concrete. Does it say anything about the Workers' Party's own perception of what is concrete or not concrete? Or is it that you actually fear that today's government can succeed in what it does, in contrast to what the Workers' Party itself did – except to take care of the prisoners, at the expense of the victims of crime in this country? I believe that it is only history that will judge today's government for what it has done and has not done. It will be judged after what it got into, and it will get criticism for what it didn't. It's kind of part of the political game, and that's how it should be. The debate also shows that there are differences, but in the large picture, the differences – I would say – are marginal. The differences today are essentially about whether Norwegian citizens can zone abroad. The majority say yes. A good and sound agreement has been negotiated between the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party. It's been expensive, but the result is good. So then that's how it is. I must at the end of the debate be allowed to say that, for my part, as the rapporteur, I think the committee has done a good job. They've kept the deadlines, they've had good recordings, you've been very clear on where you want to go. So it's also like when you speed around and meet people, make some bigger impressions than others. I have to say that to meet some of the people who represented the municipality of Gågebostad was a great experience – and to travel to Valdres and meet people who worked for the island of Slide, and who showed a commitment that I think there is great respect for. The same reward I will be allowed to give to those who represented the Wefsn Municipality, who made a recording so creative that the Stortinget could not say no to it. Then I think they do good political crafts. At the same time, there is no doubt that many have approached Stortinget and said that they have an empty one, they have a regulation plan. Now that's not necessarily what the Storting has asked for, and that's probably not what the government has been looking for. What has been looked at is good solutions to make the most of society's entire resources, and at the same time benefit from the criminal justice system, namely the implementation of penalties. We have good solutions, we have a variety of solutions. I am absolutely sure that today's government will come forward with proposals that will enable us to budget for this in a good way. In addition, budgets are to be negotiated, primarily with the Left and Christian People's Party. That means we have to find solutions together. Local, regional and national interests are to be taken into account. But once again, it's part of running politics. There's nothing new in this. The new thing today is that we are going beyond the borders of the country to remove the cows. Where the others release the prisoners, we want to keep them behind locks and hit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1175	I'm not going to help prolong the debate very much. I do not represent the Local View Silence. I should have perhaps also represented the local bear, as it is a bear in the municipality of my municipality. Only cards when it comes to Kleivgrend: The representative, Werp, is quite right that it has our decommissioning threat before. Twice over the last 15 years, I think it's been the trouble of closure. Joining larger devices has resulted in professional input. It is not new that professional bodies in Norway within hospitals, police and other areas believe that larger units are better units. Politically, this has been supported the two previous times. We from Telemark – and then I think I'm talking on behalf of the whole bench – are going to make an effort to prevent this again, for example. because Werp mentions recruitment problems and challenges one has had there before, is no longer present. We'll confirm that, both from Agder Prison and from the NFF. At least we're going to do what we can to overestimate – see. what the robber said instead — that this department should still be there. Then I register that the representative Ropstad thought that a record had not been made before the decision was taken. But the decision has not been made. It's the Stortinge that decides this, and it does us today. I see that the representative Ropstad is not here, but it hasn't been recorded by all the representatives from Telemark. So it's a bad excuse for being honest about being disagreeable, and rather want these places for Evje. I can appreciate that Robstad might want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1186	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. One, two, three, and five.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1200	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1207	A number of violent people experience threatening and dangerous behaviour from their former partners. Many live in constant fear and need protective measures after the settlement for the perpetrator. It is unbearable for those affected. Increased efforts to combat violence in close relationships have led to changes in laws that provide better opportunities to prosecute the perpetrators and protect the victims. In addition, there is today more emphasis on protecting the victim where they live, rather than relocating or hiding the victims. The restraining order is one of the few instruments available to the police to protect persons who are subjected to violations of peace by others and is provided for in the Criminal Procedures Act, Chapter 17, Section 222(a). Visiting prohibitions may also be imposed on persons who are subject to persecution/stretching. In several contexts, at the latest in the target and prioritisation of criminal proceedings in 2015, the National Advocate has recalled that offences against the imposition of a restraining order are to be followed up, cf. Article 342 of the Penal Code. As of 1 February 2013, it has been possible to judge violent offenders for a restraining order with electronic marking, a so-called reverse alarm of violence. It is the court that decides that the sentenced person does not have access to a particular geographical area surrounding the victim of the violence. An electronic footlink on doomfields alerts the police if they move into the prohibited area. The reverse alarm of violence is an instrument in the fight against violence in close relations, and it provides the police with a new tool to protect violent persons. In addition to – and not as a substitute for – existing measures to protect those who are subjected to violence or threats of violence, the reverse alarm of violence is available. So far, two judges have been ordered to use the reverse alarm. Both judgments are from Sør-Trøndelag objectively, the link was carried out in 2014 and 2015. The Committee would also point out that, in the context of the objectives and priorities set out for the criminal proceedings in 2015, the Riksadvokat re-emphasises the possibility of revoking a counter-violence alarm in addition to or instead of other penalties with a restraining order. Where a restraining order, or other means, is not respected, the Committee considers that the reverse alarm for violence shall be used to a greater extent than at present. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right, believe that there is a need to update the criminal provisions on the persecution of persons. Such actions have very serious consequences for those affected, and it is important that the nature and seriousness of the action be clearly identified in the relevant criminal orders. The majority have also noticed that some of the proposals have already been followed up. The Ministry is currently working on a proposal to follow up the consultation note of 8 February 2013. The proposition will be promoted for Stortinget as quickly as possible, i.e. during the autumn of 2015. The proposition will also address several issues related to violence in close relations and sexual abuse, where issues of benefit will be addressed together. Furthermore, I refer to the proposals for decisions from the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1226	I would like to start by thanking the case spokesman for Elves for doing a very good job with this proposal, and as one of the proposers, I am very pleased that it is a consensual committee that goes in to ask the government to review and evaluate the system of visitation bans. That's absolutely necessary. I see that the centre party is not involved in the proposals, as the case-speaker did well. I hope it's a mistake, and that the Center Party may fix it. The number we have from the Police Directorate in the number of messages for non-visit offences is very alarming. In the period 2010–2014 we saw an increase in the number of violations of visiting bans on 18 p.m. This is very serious for them. We know that at times many young social voices become silent because of this. We know that many, who are never in the media, and who are not familiar people, experience this daily. They're experiencing a broken restraining order and a life of constant fear. There's a need for a private stalking law, and I'm very happy that Right now is for that. Stalking and prosecuting are a growing social problem, and it's not more than six months since Right Linda C. Hofstad Helleland said to Evening Post that there was no need for such a law. It worries me. I then saw with fear that we might not get this promise, but when the court's national meeting recently made a decision and we saw Hofstad Helleland in the VG saying that she wanted a new stalking law, I was very happy about it, because it was now two years ago that the stalking bill that the red-green government presented was finished, so it's just starting that work. There is a need for better and more holistic criminal protection for people who have been persecuted. Countries such as Sweden, Denmark, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands have a law against this. Under the red-green government in 2013, 40 so-called reverse election alarms were developed, and we can no longer call it a new tool. We are some members of the Committee that it is worrying that they are too little used, and believe that it is important to make that action and the instrument much better known. But the Labour Party also believes that the Minister of Justice should do well for the Storting for how they have been used in recent years, what kind of assessments have been made. That is why we are still upholding our proposal for such a settlement. It is very good that we are some members of the committee to make the use of the reverse election alarm more aware, to have the visitation ban system evaluated and to get a law against stalking – it is high time. We thought it took too long, but it might have something to do that took some time before the Right decided what they meant about the case. But there are many of us who have talked to people who have been subjected to personal persecution and stalking, and they don't experience being taken seriously enough. They feel that their problem is not as serious as it actually is. Difor is this very good. I am very pleased that there is a consensual committee behind the most important proposals. This is good for those people who daily experience privacy violations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1243	Does the representative wish to address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1246	That's what I want.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1251	The representative, Lene Wagslid, has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1254	This is probably a good case where the Justice Committee presents its position to the Stortinget. Personal persecution or stalking must, as many people have been in it, be very unpleasant to those who experience it. There are people who are exposed to threatening and dangerous behaviour and who live in daily fear of violent persons. I would therefore like to thank the proposers – and the representative, who spoke – for promoting this proposal, which focuses on a very important topic in order to help people who need protection and help. I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work, and also for the fact that we have tightened up some of the proposals in order to stress the importance of having them quickly. How many people are experiencing this problem, we unfortunately know little about it. But there is now a research work going on at Oslo University Hospital, which aims to identify the extent of the persecution, the nature and consequences of this. The project will be completed in 2016 as planned. The aim of the study is to provide data to compare those who have experienced persecution with those who do not have such experience. That is good – because we need to know more in order to ensure good action, so that we can help those who are exposed, in the best possible way. But we know enough that more needs to be done. Unfortunately, many live in fear of people who have subjected them to violence or threatening behaviour. Many people also live in fear after the perpetrator has escaped from shelter. Fortunately, recent developments have taken place from the fact that the victim has been moved and must live in hiding, to the fact that the perpetrator has been banned from visiting, and now also reverse violence. The reverse alarm of violence is a good instrument in the fight against violence in close relations and provides the police with a good tool to protect violent people. We in the Christian People's Party have struggled for a long time to introduce a reverse alarm of violence. It is because we believe that the victim should not bear the burden, but that it is he who threatens or who commits violence, who should take the burden of walking with an electronic footlink. Conversely, a violent alarm is an important measure to protect persons exposed to violence, but it is important to point out that it should not be a substitute for other measures. After the reversal of the violent alarm, only two judges have been ordered to do so. I am therefore pleased that the Committee and the majority of the European Parliament now want to ask the government to ensure that the scheme is well-known, so that it can be used to an even greater extent. It is important to ensure that violent persons are free from fear. In addition, I am pleased that there is a proposal for a new penalty order for the persecution of persons already during the autumn of 2015. Then for explanations of vote. We experience that the presentation of the reverse alarm came in the letter of reply, and therefore we do not support that proposal – now I do not remember the number – to which the representative Wagzlid referred instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1271	I would like to thank the proposers for an important proposal. I am pleased that the Right has turned the case around. That's good, because this is very serious for them. It can in a way really take the whole freedom from a human being it is to be exposed to stalking, so this supports SV wholeheartedly. But we are not satisfied with the pace of reverse violence alarm. It is simply unbearable that the victims of violence must live with limitations on their course of action, while those who have been subjected to violence can walk freely and have full freedom of action. Therefore, the reverse alarm for violence was introduced, but it is a very strict penalty for judging it. In the position, when this was adopted, there was a majority of the Workers' Party, Right and SV who asked the government to determine whether it was possible to use the reverse violence alarm also in cases of a visitor ban and not only in cases of a contact ban. I see that the majority now say that this should be evaluated, that it should be better informed, etc., but SV believes that it is high time that the government investigated this and presented it to the Stortinget so that it is possible to introduce the reverse violence alarm also in cases of a visitation ban. That is why, today, we are promoting a proposal that is distributed in the Chamber, and I am addressing it. It's like: ‘The government is asked to propose to amend the criminal law on electronic control by a refusal of contact to apply also in the event of a visit ban.’ Such work on amending the law may go completely parallel to an evaluation. I think there is really a cross-political consensus that this is an instrument that should be used. Then I am also aware that there are some legal aspects of this that need to be investigated, but I wonder at times that it seems that the legal certainty of the perpetrator is stronger than that of the victim of violence. We are talking about terrorism and society must be prepared for terrorism. This is terrorism, and in these cases we know who the terrorist is, and we know who the victim of terrorism is. There is now a need to do something right with this, because it does not stop. There may be cases of stalking, but there may also be other types of cases. I have wondered for a long time that it took a very long time for the reverse alarm to be applied at all. As far as I know, it's only in two cases where it's been convicted. When we know the extent of serious violence, serious threats, and that many of these cases are going to end up totally tragically killing people, it happens every year, and we know that, then there is a need for this. But there is also a need for the police to tighten up on these issues, for them to deal with them, for them to investigate them, and that it does not happen – I have been in several cases – that someone who is subjected to violence is a foreign woman and that there is even less attention than when a Norwegian woman is exposed to this. These are rough things. It's one of the most serious crimes we have in the country, and when a human being who's exposed to this comes to the police and it's not taken seriously, I can almost imagine what kind of a more serious breach of trust someone might be exposed to than that. If it had been such that it had subsequently proved not to be anything in these matters, it would have been something, but the experience is quite the opposite. The experience is unfortunately that when this is not taken seriously, it ends up terribly wrong for the person who is exposed to it. I call on the strongest majority – and in particular the majority that supported the position when we dealt with this, the Right and the Labour Party – to vote in favour of the SV's proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1287	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1290	Let me first thank both the rapporteurs, the rapporteur and the Committee for a very good cooperation and for a very good result. I am very pleased that, through this proposal, the proposers put the spotlight on the difficult situation of people who are exposed to threatening and dangerous behaviour from their ex-partners, for example, experience. We heard examples of that from the previous speaker in the pulpit. Many of these live with constant fear. Although physical violence may cease to exist, many of these victims of violence are exposed to behaviour that makes life unforeseeable and unsafe. By means of changes in the law, we now have better opportunities both to prosecute the perpetrators and to protect those who are subjected to violence in close relations. It is a goal that the perpetrator should bear the burden to a greater extent after such events, and that the victims should be released. The restraining order under the Criminal Procedures Act is one of several protective measures that the police can use. Violation of the visit ban shall be handled promptly and in cash. In 2015, the National Attorney General also stated in his letter of target and priority for criminal proceedings that this should be followed up. With the exception of the more general evaluation of the police's work on family violence by the Police College, no comprehensive evaluation of the ban on visits has been carried out as a safeguard measure. The impact of the law on the security of vulnerable people, the use of this measure by the police and follow-up in broken situations have therefore not been adequately monitored. I share the opinion of the proposers that such a review is needed and will, in a short time, clarify how such a review can best be carried out. I would also like to facilitate an evaluation of the system of visitation bans under Section 222(a) of the Criminal Procedure Act to include an assessment of how and in what way it can be facilitated that the number of visiting bans imposed are also recorded. Today, there is only a breach of the decision on a restraining order registered in the criminal record. This also limits our ability to carry out more in-depth analysis of developments and to implement more accurate prevention measures. The Committee calls for the electronic control system to be better known in the event of a refusal of contact, so-called a reverse violent alarm. Like the Committee, I would like this important safeguard to be applied more fully. However, experience from other areas unfortunately shows that it often takes some time before new schemes enter into operation, but developments in the last six months point in the right direction. In addition to the two cases that have been denounced, which the representative Andersen was also involved in his statement, after I have been informed by the police directorate, there are now several cases under way. All the police districts of the country have been informed of the scheme. In addition, in the case of criminal proceedings in the police and state prosecutors’ offices for both 2014 and 2015, the Riksadvokat wrote in its objectives and priorities the memory of the possibility to claim the imposition of electronic control of the refusal of contact. I am very pleased that there is a broad political uprising about the need to clarify the criminal liability for the persecution of persons. A study by the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, NKVTS, from 2014, shows that stalking is an unusual phenomenon. In a survey involving a representative sample of the population aged between 18 and 75, almost 42 pst responded. of the asked women and 30 pst. of men that they had been subjected to some form of persecution during their lives. It supports the need for effective criminal provisions that clearly and comprehensively capture the nature and seriousness of such acts. The government will promote a proposition to the Stortinget with proposals to clarify the criminal liability for the persecution of persons during the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1306	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1309	I want to thank the Council of State for the article. It is important that we can only deal with important issues such as this, and the reverse election alarms have now been in our possession for two years. The last time we discussed the use of these in Stortinget was in the fall. The Minister of Justice then shared my concern that the use of the reverse electoral alarms was low. My question to the Minister of Justice is: What has the Minister of Justice actually done, since the last time we discussed this in Stortinget, to help increase the use of the reverse electoral alarms?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1316	This is something I follow up in the management dialogue with the underlying agencies and in dialogue with the Riksadvokaten. As I mentioned, the Riksadvokat has addressed this in its prioritisation letter both in 2014 and 2015. So it's a challenge that this is a measure that is judged. It is not challenging that the courts have an entirely independent role to play, but it is therefore the courts that choose the instruments to be used in the judgment, and what is the background to that. I think that, in addition to good information, the two issues we have now, and the issues notified by the Directorate of Police are under delay, will help to strengthen the focus of the courts that this is a real and good alternative. I think the first step now must be for the courts to take on board the fact that this is something that is politically desirable to be used, and that it will in itself lead to the courts using it to a greater extent than we have seen so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1321	The reason for impatience in these matters is not the concern of the Storting; it is that these are people who live in total terror and are terrified, and sails must go with alarm, while the one who has practiced violence, wanders freely. That means that we really don't have any time to lose, we're spending too much time. So the Council of State says it's gonna take some time before this goes all the way into the police districts and in the courts, etc., and now it's probably also time to evaluate this. Then my question is to the Council of State: is there anything wrong with the Storting voting for SV's proposal today, that is, the government is trying to amend the penal code in parallel with the evaluation that is, so that it can go quickly? Does the Council of State object to the Stortinge voting for this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1326	I am a little uncertain as to what the SV proposal actually involves, but, as I understand it, they want one to be able to use the reverse alarm of violence in cases where a criminal order is imposed. It has been assessed in the past – under the previous government, I believe it was in 2008-2009 – as problematic in relation to human rights. I believe these are thoughts that evolve over time, these are assessments that evolve over time. I have no objections to a review of such a type of proposal against the limitations of human rights, and I note that in the political debate also in other countries, for example in Sweden, where they have a similar system to what we have, it is a discussion of whether it is possible to use a reverse violence alarm even in cases of a criminal order. But there might also be some challenges with that, so the road probably isn't without bumps.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1331	No, it's SV and I are fully aware of it. The point of this proposal, in which we ask the government to make proposals to change the criminal law on electronic control in the event of a refusal of contact to apply also to a restraining order, is to get this work going. So it's like this that the government has to come to Stortinget with the result of this work. The need to get it going quickly, in parallel with an evaluation, must be evident. I perceive that the Council of State does not see anything in principle in the way of starting such a work. Then I hope that the Council of State will do so, and that he also sees that it is fully possible to support such a proposal, simply to get this important work going, and that the majority of the Stortinge – I hope – is in favour of this proposal, so the Council of State will have a mission he likes to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1336	The challenge with the wording of the proposal is to ask for a conclusion before an assessment. If one is to conclude that we are to make a proposal that means that one should use a reverse violent alarm also for cases with a criminal order – with the knowledge that it has previously been considered to be contrary to human rights – I believe that the wording of the proposal is such that the Storting should not adopt that wording. At the same time, I am concerned that we should ensure the use of reverse violence alarm within the regime we have today, and would like to consider how we can develop and expand this use. But I think it is necessary to have a thorough assessment also against human rights before the Stortinget concluded that work on a proposition with a given conclusion should be started. I think that's an important difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1341	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1346	Strengthening the protection of people who are exposed to violence, threats of violence, persecution of persons and stalking is a political responsibility we can never allow to rest. The theme has been repeatedly debated in Stortinget, but not just here. As a member of the Parliament's delegation to the Council of Europe, I have also participated in similar debates in Strasbourg. In 2011, the so-called Istanbul Convention against violence against women and violence in close relations was signed and ratified. Norway was among the first countries to sign. In January 2012, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a recommendation to all Member States to continue their work on ratification. In Document No: 15:801 for 2011–2012 I therefore asked the then Minister of Justice Grete Faremo for the status of the Norwegian preparations for ratification of the Convention. As you know, at least ten countries need to ratify in order for a convention to be in force. At that time, only Turkey had ratified. The answer we got was that Norway seemed to meet the requirements of the Convention. The only thing left to assess and possibly introduce was a separate provision against stalking in the penal code. Unfortunately, it still remains. The Convention entered into force on 1 August last year. It should therefore take almost three years from signing to a sufficient number of ratifications, despite the fact that the Convention has been designated as nothing less than groundbreaking in the fight against violence against women, in Europe and elsewhere. Particular importance is attached to the monitoring mechanisms of the Convention, in which the ratifying Member States are lagging behind, both in terms of legislation and in terms of practical policies against violence against women and violence in close relations. A dedicated expert group has been set up to monitor and regularly report on the follow-up by the authorities of the different countries to their obligations under the Convention, and the expert group is in the process of carrying out its work. The Council of Europe has thus taken on a leading role in protecting women’s rights and combating the violations of human rights represented by this form of violence. However – and this is a big one: Norway is not among the 18 countries that have now ratified. This is because we have not yet put in place the necessary legal provision against stalking, which is one of the requirements of the Convention. It is embarrassing, and it is therefore quite appropriate that an almost collective committee now asks the government to promote the long announced proposition for a new penalty order on the persecution of persons, or stalking, during the autumn of 2015. It's positive, as I see it, that it will be done. It is important for Norwegian women — and men — while helping to strengthen human rights in the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1359	The Labour Party believes that the proposal from SV is good. I think you might want to make sure you put forward a proposal that doesn't necessarily come to a conclusion in the first place, because I think all of us are some about the goal. As we have discussed earlier about the ban, one of the reasons why we need to evaluate it is that it does not work – at least it does not work well enough. I think it is natural to consider the use of electronic control as an instrument also in connection with a visitation ban, and look at it in the same evaluation of the scheme. The Swedish Labour Party supports the SV proposal. I agree with the representative Ropstad, who said before today that it is important that the burden be placed where he should – on the perpetrators, not on the victims. There is also one of the backgrounds for these proposals. I also record that there are cases in the Supreme Court in recent times that there is reason to be happy. In January, the Supreme Court sentenced a man to 60 days in prison under the terms of repeated violations of a restraining order. It's an important verdict, and it was good. But there were too frequent violations of the restraining order, and in view of those who experience this being broken, it is still far too bad. I call for the participation of the Right in this debate. In particular, no one from the party has asked for the word from now on. We're also a little curious to know what's the reason why the Right has changed. We are – misunderstand me correctly – very happy about that, but earlier it may have been on the Right that we have not got this case to the Stortinget, so it would be nice to get right from them. Finally, I would like to encourage the Center Party to support the plural setting. I think it would have been nice if there had been a joint committee, with the whole of the Storting, which had stood behind and asked the government to make the announcement of changes in the penal code for the prosecution and'stretching'. I'm calling on the Center Party to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1370	There are some joyful changes, but before a case comes to the Supreme Court, there have been many years. If someone is then sentenced to a 30-day sentence, the victim has often been punished for years — to put it that way. And it's certainly not going to help once, if you don't have a reverse alarm of violence that means that whoever's persecuting you won't be allowed to come nearby, and the warning goes if he does. To this proposal as SV and I have promoted today: it would probably have been better to ask the government to start work with a view to amending the penal code. With a view to changing the penal code – I believe everyone agrees on that. So if it's formally possible to do it now during the treatment here, and there's connection from multiple parties, they almost have to tell us if it's now during the treatment so hopefully then it'll be possible to change this wording as I'm now referring to. It should therefore be stated that the Stortinget asks the government to start work with a view to changing the criminal law on electronic control by prohibiting contact to apply also in case of a restraining order. So I hope that it can make us get a unanimous increase that can be a part of this, because it's urgent to do this in parallel with the evaluation that the government and the majority here say are going to carry out.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1378	We're going to make an assessment of whether it's possible to do this and then come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1381	This concerns the proposal from SV. If it may be a dangerous road for SV to pass this on to the government, right and – yes, now I have to shoot almost – I will also assume the Advance Party will support it. It is in any case a proposal that needs to be examined in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1386	I would like us to have a clear reply from the presidency as to whether it is possible to change the wording, because with the amended wording, I believe that it must be possible for the Storting to vote in favour of this proposal. If that's not the case, I hear the call from the Right now to pass this on to the government, but in reality it means very little if I don't get a very clear response from the government parties that this will actually be done, so that this work will go on in parallel. If you can assure them – from the Right, the Advance Party and from the Council of State – the situation is different.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1391	As the President has understood it, it is possible to change the wording of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1394	I'm not going to interfere in Storting's treatment here, but I can at least confirm that if this is done as a transmission proposal, the government will deal with it and take it into account in the assessments it is going to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1399	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1413	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1427	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1434	Over 25 years, the Municipality of Oslo and several other municipalities have developed a parliamentary governance system with clear parallels to the national system. City councils and county councils have replaced the councillor and act as heads of administration in Bergen, in Tromsø, in Oslo and subsequently in several counties. The model has also been adjusted along the way, e.g. the City Council in Oslo has adjusted its model in close cooperation with the Ministry of Local Affairs. In this way, they now have a system that is essentially similar to the national parliamentary system. In a municipality governed by a parliamentary model, the City Council is the Administrative Manager, and it is the only body that has decision-making powers across the different administrative units in the municipality. In order for this to function properly in practice, the City Council must at any time have an opportunity to put in place the necessary and important content of the matter through facts, investigations and clarifications prior to their publication to the public. This is the case for the administrative management of over 400 municipalities today. In a municipality with a Presidency model, it is such that the councillor’s employment notes can be exempted from publication as organ-in-house documents under current public law. In a parliamentary governance model, there must also be the same room for internal coordination and discussion, based on written notes in the preparatory stages of the procedure. This is absolutely necessary in order to create a clear responsibility, but also in order to obtain a sound basis for decision-making. To recapture the example from Oslo, they have the longest seagoing season of urban parliamentarianism. For a long time, probably up to about 25 years, they have operated with urban council notes as internal documents for coordination and coordination in their case preparation. This practice was halted in 2012, when the Civil Ombudsman found that there was no basis for this practice in the current law. The proposal we are discussing today makes it clear that urban council notes are to be regarded as internal documents. It is wrong to make this a major step backwards for the principle of disclosure. What has been a practice for more than 25 years is clarified in the law. The practice is essentially equivalent to what we know from the national parliamentary model, except that municipalities usually publish their positions one week before they take decisions, which the government does not. In addition, municipal councils usually receive half-yearly overviews of what matters can be expected to be delivered by city councils or county councils. I just want to make a few comments about things that have arisen along the way in committee. Questions were raised as to whether the proposal could be contrary to the fifth paragraph of Section 100 of the Constitution. A well-written response letter from the Department discusses this issue and, with good reason, rejects the issue. This is an assessment to which the majority of the committee subscribes. So finally, I just want to say that you can equal municipal or county parliamentaryism, or you can disapprove of it. I suspect that much of the opposition to this proposal would like to be grounded in the fact that you don't like municipal parliamentarianism, and that's a completely curative thing. Now I see no serious reason why we should have legislation that discriminates between the presidencies and the parliamentaryly governed municipalities. We have to have a code that is equal, and we have to have a code that is adapted to the real conditions out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1453	The Workers' Party is committed to transparency in general government, in both municipalities, county municipalities and the state. At the same time, we are concerned that one must have a well-functioning management system with spaces for discussion, balances and coordination at the preparatory stages of a case. The Labour Party will underline the importance of having clear responsibilities in the public and political administration of Norway. Whether under the Presidency Act or there is a parliamentary form of government in a municipality or county, one has to expect that both forms of governance will be treated equally. The working party, like all those who report it, seems that it is not good that public documents should not be filed or reported long after they are sent. The Workers' Party, together with the majority of the Committee, has therefore asked the Government to take the initiative to review the rules and guidelines of all public institutions and bodies with a view to improving transparency and transparency of public activities. It is important that there is an opportunity to have informal discussions along the way in a case, regardless of whether the matter is designed by a councillor or an urban councillor. Today, a Councillor may invite its Heads of State or Government to preparatory work meetings before the Councillor submits his or her posts for political proceedings in the Presidency and local government. The same applies to county municipalities. Today, however, the mayor cannot invite his responsible bureaux to preparatory work meetings in the same way, without the media possibly asking for insight into what they have thought so far into the matter. This seems to us to be a discrimination between governing under the Presidency Act and the parliamentary system established for municipalities and county municipalities. Both the municipality of Oslo, the municipality of Bergen and the municipality of Nord-Trøndelag have made comments in a good and tidy way, and we are therefore involved in the majority proposal promoted by the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1466	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a good job and for a good report. The proposal we are now debating is a proposal which has been promoted with a broad political base. It is promoted by the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party. The background to the proposal is the Civil Ombudsman’s statement that Section 16 of the Public Prosecutor’s Act was interpreted differently by several councillors and himself. The disagreement arose as to whether the preliminary notes and conferences of the City Councils should be excluded from the public. In his statement, the Civil Ombudsman did not decide what the legislation would look like, but he pointed out that there was a need for clarification of the law by the legislator. Let me first start by saying that transparency in government is absolutely crucial in a democratic system. However, this matter is not about less transparency and less transparency, but about ensuring sound and appropriate rules of procedure for the city councils. Since the introduction of parliamentaryism at municipal and county level, the arrangements have been under development to ensure that the legislation takes into account both the public needs for information and the needs of the City Council for procedural rules appropriate to their preparatory work. In municipalities where parliamentaryism has been introduced, the City Council is the chief executive of the administration, as the councillor is in those municipalities that do not have the Presidency model, and is also the only body with decision-making powers across the different administrative units of the municipality. The City Council acts with the same function as the Councillor. This was also made clear during the hearing of the proposal in the Judicial Committee. The Christian People's Party is therefore of the opinion that a city council must be able to conduct internal discussions in the same way as the councillor can with its departments. This will also improve the quality of the procedure. In addition, this would allow the decision-making basis of the City Council to be verified. Today’s practice can prevent this. As I have already pointed out, transparency should be a pillar of public administration, but it is also absolutely essential that the City Council has the opportunity to have internal discussions in the preparatory stages of the case – and I repeat: in the preparatory stages. The changes we are making today ensure that they can be done in a proper way. What we are voting for today is only valid at the preparatory stage. The starting point is that most cases will be public one week before the adoption of decisions in urban councils or the setting up of local councils/city councils. Therefore, the public will have the opportunity to engage and make its decisions before decisions are taken. It is also necessary to point out that the documents on which we are amending today could be made transparent if the detailed conditions for doing so exist. Several journalists have claimed that the proposal is contrary to the Constitution § 100 fifth paragraph, which the Ministry of Justice has refuted. There is plenty of room for the Storting to assess what could be excluded from the public. The Public Health Act is also under evaluation, and I look forward to that report at the end of this year. Although the Christian People's Party is involved in this change today, we are fully aware that journalists have been opposed in terms of transparency. This year's methodological reports from SKUP have shown us. It is very unfortunate, and I am therefore pleased that a majority of the Judicial Committee has asked the government to take the initiative of all public institutions and agencies reviewing regulations and guidelines with a view to improving transparency and transparency in public activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1492	The centre party cannot join the change in the disclosure law that today's majority in the Stortinget wants. We believe that this is a proposal that means a less open local democracy, and we are very surprised at the urgency of having that kind of legislative change in place, without having a thorough review of the proposal. It sounds like this is just about Oslo and Bergen, but it is really about four municipalities and three cities: Troms, Nordland, Nord-Trøndelag and Hedmark and Tromsø, Bergen and Oslo. The proposal on the table today will establish an even stronger distinction between presidencies and those who have introduced parliamentaryism. In the former, essentially all political debate will be open, while in the other, one will now be able to keep almost all of the political debate secret before one thing comes to the county council or to the city council. It's a law change where these municipalities are even more aimed at being some kind of mini-reform. The matter therefore has a principle aspect of the governance model throughout our local democracy. When the political majority of some municipalities clearly define themselves as organisers of councillors and use that argument to be less transparent, it will make the work extremely difficult for both opposition politicians, opinion and the press. Where, in general, all parties have access to administrative assessments at the same time, and then led a political debate and debate, the political majority shall reach a negotiated conclusion before a decision is taken. It will mean less transparency in the municipalities, which means that the opposition will come into the process later, and that means that it will be more difficult to follow the ongoing debate in these municipalities. Or as Sven Egil Omdal so aptly describes it in Saturday's newspapers: ‘The rationale for making policy a closed circuit is that cities and counties can thus be managed more ‘effectively’.’ Who can oppose anything like this? Some may claim that there is a lack of public debate that the public no longer has the preconditions to participate, but everyone knows that democracy is a decent mass – with delays, disagreements, compromises and protests. The centre party does not conceal that we believe that municipal parliamentarianism has many sides of the battle, and this is one of the sides of the battle. City and county councils do not only provide professional assessments and recommendations. City councils and county councils are not government either. There is only one government, and we should neither, nor can, have 429 municipalities as any later, as if they could act as a government in relation to opposition and publicity. The proposal helps to create a distinction between the municipalities that have one or the other model, and opening up to less public opinion in municipalities with parliamentaryism can also, for that reason, tempt some to choose that form of governance, and it would have been a very unfortunate situation if there was a motivating basis in itself for a change in governance. It is important to see local policies as well as the workforce. Many of us believe that local democracy as a governance system should be a place where elected representatives are equivalent and jointly responsible for building solutions that benefit the local environment and community. At national level, we are politicians full-time politicians, we have a well-developed system and apparatus around us, but in the three cities and the four county municipalities that have now introduced parliamentaryism, city councils and county councils will sit with the entire administration available in meeting with the city council and county councillors who are often part-time politicians. A tightening of the disclosure law makes this bias even stronger. Then I must also say that the process of the amendment itself has been remarkable. Here, the government parties, together with the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, and, to the extent that it is also the Left's proposal, choose to jump over any normal treatment of a bill and promote the matter directly in the Storting. It is not uncommon for an opposition party to do so at times, but that the government's own parties in the Storting go beyond its own government and ordinary treatment, can be seen as a competent emancipator. That avoids a broad debate, one just gets beat through it. I would challenge those parties who want such a change to wake up to the debate on the change. Send the bill to the government and ask for a normal procedure to be implemented, where the bill was widely discussed professionally in the department and sent to general consultations before we deal with it in the Stortinget. A particular reason for doing so is that the Public Health Act and the Local Government Act are now being evaluated and reviewed. It is incomprehensible that one here is forging a broad process around these two laws by hastening through a simple bill that the majority are proposing today. I must say I am very disappointed in both the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1516	If there is any of this process around this Document 8 proposal that has shown us, it is that this is a proposal that should have been sent to the government to get – as Marit Arnstad just said – regular treatment, with a proper investigation and consultation. In the left we now see that it is not a majority for such a process, and that the majority wants to go directly to a decision today. I would just like to inform you that the Left will vote against that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1521	SV is also going to vote against the setting, and we're very surprised by both the content and the process. Tomorrow, we are going to deal with a matter where the government is presenting a municipal reform that they claim is about more democracy in local policy. And today, they want us to vote in favour of a proposal that makes local politicians, but also the population, less aware of what is going on in local policy before it comes to political treatment in local governments. It is even true that in some of these municipalities — e.g. Tromsø – which has introduced parliamentaryism – has gone to the extreme variant of parliamentaryism, in which the majority who are behind the City Council has also been given the power to decide that the City Council can decide everything, and that the municipal government has no influence at all. So this proposal should the Stortinge should reject and at least send back to the government so that they can go through it in a professionally thoughtful way. So parallel processes are now taking place with the evaluation of the Public Health Act and the Local Government Act. I believe that those who vote in favour of this today need to explain why it is not right to make such possible changes in connection with such a major review. The situation today in the municipalities is that there is more secrecy than what is required by law. It's a problem. It is such that employees of municipalities are bound by professional secrecy on the basis of which they are not bound by the obligation of professional secrecy. There are many politicians today who don't know the law, and who actually accept these rules when the management of the municipality comes with them. This is also happening in municipalities that have a Presidency model, but what is adopted with this bill is that there should be even more secrecy, that politicians should know even less, and that citizens should know even less at a time when it might be possible to change or influence matters. The press has protested, and SV fully agrees with the views expressed by the press. I have also noticed that a former civil officer has been used as a kind of witness of truth to the need to amend the law. But what the former civil ombudsman has asked for is clarification – that is, going through it seriously and thoroughly – so that the law becomes clear, and so that we get those who use this form of governance to deal with it in a consistent and tidy manner. Then I had actually expected that the Workers' Party had also participated in the wish that there should be more publicity, more transparency, more opportunities for debate before it was concluded in the cases. I am very surprised that the Workers' Party is involved in – one of them – the procedure, i.e. that a legislative proposal is changed through a wholesale process without a thorough investigation, while other investigations are ongoing, and that what Norway and the municipalities now need is not seen as rules that allow more people to gain insight earlier and to participate in the debates and to participate on an informed and sound basis. I don't understand what you're afraid of in these processes. Less publicity in the decision-making process of local policy – and that it should be an advantage for democracy – is totally opposed. I join the post of the representative of the Central Party, and like the representative of the Left, I am disappointed that this was not sent back – but I am also a little surprised that the Left was present as the author of the proposal when the proposal first came up. SV will vote against, and I encourage Stortinget to do the same and to send this back to the government – to work properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1540	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1543	It also surprises me that the Storting does not take the time to make a more detailed assessment of what this actually involves. In my time as group leader in the Nord-Trøndelag district, where we have municipal parliamentarianism, I have experience of both position and opposition. I am fully aware that this is also implemented in a number of states and several cities. Most political parties have participated in it in the Nord-Trøndelag – and are in the model. It's actually also about you having to be involved in this even if there's disagreement. Many trailers point to links between the national and municipal and county levels in terms of governance challenges, and thus, in principle, there are some of the same framework conditions. But those parallels are going to be quite wrong for me in terms of security interests and relations with other countries, which you can clearly keep away from so-called R-notes, which can be kept secret. This is not particularly relevant for municipalities and county councils. Nor shall a government maintain local democracy in the same way as these and have the well-known and close dialogue with the inhabitants of its own region. Extensive use of secrecy of documents cannot be exactly the ideal that one should reach for in local democracy. Rule of the Peoples is quickly transformed into a technocratic system. Some argue that one will have a much more efficient operation of county municipalities and municipalities in this way. Yeah, I get it. I understand the practicality of the guiding element, given the position, that a person gets the pace of things. But those who are not in charge, either in county councils or city councils, are then put on the side of county councils and local councillors. This is going to be fast A, B, and C layers. And the population will definitely be on the C team – one does not have the opportunity to influence matters until they are finished, and all real decisions are made and anchored before the cases become publicly known. Objections, new information and views of those affected by the cases do not appear until the decision is taken. That the proceedings of the elected representatives of the county and city councils are so marked by the pace that they do not have the opportunity to hang out with them, I cannot see that there is a great democratic aspect. It is also demanding for citizens to have opportunities. Nor do I understand what it is that would make it so much better for democracy to introduce parliamentaryism into county councils and municipalities. The Haste plant only confirms that we are now facing a roadblock in many municipalities – whether the democratic principles stand for fall and the technocratic steps in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1566	"The position of the Judicial Committee is a mockery of the voters, against our idea of a representative democracy with transparent processes. What kind of culture and attitude to the voters is it that the elected people reveal by this kind of arrogance of power? The policies of the Judicial Committee should go on their own.’.» This is an extract from the exact guide of the morning paper last week. Local democracy in Norway has major challenges today when it comes to openness, regardless of governance. The 2009 public law would correct this and ensure better access to documents in the municipalities. The Ministry of Justice is in the process of evaluating the laws and has been asked to do so by the Stortinget. The evaluation will focus on whether the intention for more transparency is met. Today, Stortinget itself will contribute to the opposite. Legislative proposals will give municipalities even greater room for secrecy. This is not about what Mr Frölich has said: ‘I see enough that some eager engravers will not be satisfied that not all documents in one case will be publicly available.’ This is about the core area of local democracy, or what the Norwegian Editors' Association said on hearing: ‘refers to what we can call the very nervous system of democracy; the right to transparency and information in political processes.’ [[...]] The right of access is currently the subject of the protection of fundamental law, in the Constitution § 100, fifth and sixth paragraphs: ‘Everyone has the right to have access to the documents of the State and of the municipalities and to follow the negotiations in judicial and elected bodies. Restrictions on this right may be laid down by law in the interests of privacy and other overriding reasons.’;» By law, the majority will now make it possible to secrete dossiers containing attachments and file lists for preliminary meetings in municipalities and county councils where no decision or recommendation is to be made. The proposal has led to massive criticism, and the process of the legislative change to be applied immediately is referred to as just as undemocratic as the proposal itself. Normally, legislative changes will require rounds of hearings, but this proposal will apply immediately. This is how the Workers' Party prepares to take over the power of Bergen and Oslo into the fall, with more secrecy as ammunition. This doesn't dress the Labour Party, nor does it dress the Christian People's Party. Several have said that one compares counsellor and councillor. Professor Bernt says this is an unbearable parallel. An established parliamentarianism just to get rid of what is called the Councillor's realm. Now enter a closed City Council fields instead. The purpose of parliamentaryism was to ensure real openness in the decision-making processes. But the Great One's help today is going to be the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1595	My hypothesis that the opposition to this proposal may be motivated by a resistance to municipal parliamentarianism as such has not been weakened after this debate. It is very worth noting which parties are going up here and complaining about the process and the procedure. There is a complaint that the document 8 is being dealt with in this way. It comes from the parties that are among the most eager proposers of just that kind of proposal. There is a claim that this is an urgent work. It can then be stated that the processing time is completely within the normal range of this time of the downgrading session. It has been dealt with by oral hearings. We have received written hearings, and the consequences of the argument, as I see it, must be that Document 8 proposals are almost by definition irresponsible to deal with and legislative proposals irresponsible to deal with in this way. I think it would be a pity if the Storting that the legislator could not make changes to the law in this way as well. Then there have been some other allegations in the course of the debate. It's e.g. has been alleged to have misunderstood the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman's opinions in this matter are not misunderstood by the majority of the Committee. We are never in doubt that the Civil Ombudsman at that time would like to have an opinion of what should be true. But what he has also pointed out is that a ambiguity or disagreement about how the law is to be practiced must be resolved by the legislator. There's a call that we've made, and now we've strung out how practice is going to be in the future. Then, time and again, a point has been made that this is supposed to provide more efficient operation of the municipalities. There is something that has been taken out of a slightly unfortunate quote early in the debate, but it has been reproduced time and time again. There is a reference to the fact that municipalities and journalists have for years disagreed on this understanding, but now the clarification is coming, and then at least their time can be spent on something other than arguing about the understanding of the rules. But it is not that the procedure becomes more effective for that reason. I think to put forward that argument is really a laxity statement, because one has to deal with the reasons set out in the vote, as indicated in the proposal, as set out in the arguments put forward in the course of the debate. Indeed, it is for the sake of soundness, notoriety and clearer responsibilities of the City Council and the County Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1606	Here comes a representative representing the laxity. I think it is quite strong to hear it from the case rapporteur in a matter that is so rare that during the four periods that I have participated here in Stortinget, I have not experienced the husband. I have not experienced that the government parties join in on a Document 8 proposal in an important case in principle, without the government with its apparatus having fully assessed the matter. I have also not experienced that this happens with the agreement of the Workers' Party, because if the Workers' Party had been in government, I can at least promise that it would never have happened with the Workers' Party's votes. Then we now experience that it runs through, well within what is the time limits for dealing with a document 8 proposal, no one has said anything about it, but that it runs through, as the representative Arnstad said, without having been treated normally in the government, without having been a general hearing. So this is a matter that is at the heart of democracy, namely transparency. What's about to develop now is a line where transparency becomes less, where confidentiality increases. We had a discussion about the Health Business Act, where government parties accepted that one should govern health companies in confidentiality, a position that neither the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party nor the Left were followers of, but now we get more of the same. It's starting to become a line in this. What is at the heart of it is a process in which the government parties accept that this should be decided in a Document 8 proposal, and that the Workers' Party makes itself a spokesperson for it, and that the Christian People's Party supports it under the terms ‘responsible’ and ‘appropriate’, without any kind of principleal attitude. It is no wonder that the press reacts. It's no wonder that we in the Center Party are reacting to this, because this is one of the hardest things you've experienced in what's at the core, and what we've adorned ourselves with in so many contexts, namely transparency in governance and openness in political processes. There is no doubt that if this is adopted, it will inspire more people who want closeness in county municipalities, in cities and in municipalities around, to pay attention. This is not a good day if it is adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1615	I do belong to some of those who are characterized by some laxity, but I must say, like the representative Lundtegegen, that I have never experienced – I am sitting in my third period on Stortinget – that the government parties are helping to deal urgently with a Document 8 proposal that involves a change in the law, without letting it go through their own government. It is quite common and normal for opposition parties to promote Document 8 proposals, including changes to the law, but that the government parties choose to do it this way – to avoid all normal procedures associated with their own government – is completely incomprehensible. Had one let it go through the government, one would have received a process that could have been called proper, and one would also have a process of some legitimacy. A legislative process would then be initiated based on a thorough professional investigation, based on a prior consultation process, where interested and involved bodies, organisations and institutions will be heard, where it is expressed not only in the hearing, but also afterwards, in the proposition, and where a separate proposition from the government is presented. It's a completely different kind of procedure than what we've seen with this Document 8 proposal. The majority say that the Civil Ombudsman is not being used, but I have to say that the former Civil Ombudsman is very clear that he would not be used as an explanation for such a change of law, and he also points to the very unfortunate situation related to the way the proposal was handled. Then we see when the proposal comes to Parliament after a short time, that one of the proposers is jumping off the proposal. It is in itself positive, but it may show to an even greater extent how little thought has been given to the proposal, and how much need it could have been for the proper treatment of such a change in legislation. The fact that the government parties cannot go in to send it to the government for proper treatment is incomprehensible, but I also have to say – at the tame of the debate – that it is that such a type of bill is being knocked through here in the Chamber without the responsible state council ever bothering to take the floor, it is alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1628	The reality of this matter is that the Storting accepts to move more decisions into the chamber of local politics. The transparency of the press is that the public – that is, you and me and anyone – should be able to get to know things before they are decided, and be able to participate in the debate around them and be influenced before all the cards are laid. It is strange that the reaction of the majority of the population that municipalities violate the law of transparency is to do the illegal legal thing, because that is what is happening in this case. Of the more curious counter-arguments today, the opposition is promoting Document 8 otherwise. Yes, it is possible that there are some representatives here who were not in the last period, as there were other parties in government, and other parties who were in opposition – and then they encouraged me also Document 8 proposals. So that's the most curious thing, to say it like that, and the most useless counter-argument I've heard today. What happens now is that instead of having a closed councillor's field, politicians move into the same office and close it just as close again. It is an elite and a closed culture with which local democracy is not served. There are many difficult decisions that are also discussed in local government, and there are certainly ripples between majority parties. I have been a state politician in one of the states that have had parliamentaryism, and have also participated in being in a majority. I have also agreed that a adviser – or the director, as it was eventually – would like to close those processes. That was no advantage for democracy. There is a need for politicians – also elected representatives of county and local government – to have a full understanding of what is going on, that the press has full insight, and that the population has full insight. It is not dangerous to discuss disagreements in the public, either at national level or not at all in local democracy. So this case does not serve the majority to the credit. This is a matter that should be looked at – if it is to be looked at – in the context of the evaluation of the municipal law and the Public Health Act. And those who say that they want more participation, more publicity and more transparency, cannot vote for this amendment of the law that is at the disposal of the decision today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1641	I am also well among those who have developed some form of laxity in this respect, according to the rapporteur. Efficiency is mentioned – yes. I saw the case rapporteur as one of the main issues – and one of the reasons for this – in a paper in the VG. But I have heard that reason earlier in my time around the introduction of this in the North-Tronde Team and around the country, not least this at a pace, that it is so important to have a pace in relation to the matter. But then it's also about, as many people take up here, the right of citizens to have insight into matters, to have the opportunity to influence matters. What's it going to be like in these systems? At least I know how it works in the North-Tronde Team with our county parliamentarianism. It doesn't work very well. What we are doing now is not just a technocratic government, but new political bureaucrats. My call to the government is that it is not too late to turn around here either. As others have mentioned, this should definitely – if only small things were to be adjusted, as some claim, that this was a better procedure and easier – at least take the time this time to take the round to have this out at the hearing. Because this doesn't make it easier to participate — this is definitely not. I think this is reasonably special, that the Storting with open eyes goes in and creates some kind of expert board around the country. That's what I think – yes, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1650	It was said by the case-speaker that those who oppose the proposal today are the same parties that oppose parliamentaryism. It is a great simplification, and it shows little respect for the debate today. What is true is that with this proposal, there will be a weakening of municipal parliamentarianism, because it will be a very closed system, and it is not that the whole of Press Norway is also opposed to municipal parliamentarianism, and that is what is behind the resistance. When it is said that one does not understand the criticism of the procedure in the committee, one has also misunderstood. There is no criticism of Document 8, but how quickly a law will be changed, i.e. the word that this will apply immediately. One should have asked the government to do one thing, so one could get an ordinary hearing. It's also special when one at the same time has an evaluation of both local and public law out there. Effective operation has been said very much about it, but that's what was said, and if that was the point that a now had to get a clarification – which was behind the words ‘effective operation’ – then a simple and straightforward conclusion could be that the Civilomebodsman's interpretation is correct, a need not go in and adopt increased secrecy. Many people talk that the need for this is that city councils and county councils need regular conversations. Then one forgets that the meeting can be held closed. What you cannot accept is that the files and files should be kept secret before the council meeting. We know about the experience, among other things: from health professionals to close a meeting where a decision is not to be taken, decisions are taken in practice, so that when the public open meeting comes, there is only a sand detection body. The remark at the end where the plurality asks the government to take the initiative for public institutions and agencies to review regulations is in this case to sue the pill. I'd like to site it as the deposit representative Olav Totland of the Workers' Party, one of the publicly promised fathers, when the Odelstinget passed a public promise in 1970: ‘The greatest possible publicity at the earliest possible stage of proceedings, both in the state and in the counties and municipalities, will contribute effectively to a broad public being committed and would like to be co-responsive to everyday democracy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1666	It was on July 5th, nearly two years ago, in 2013 that the then Civil Ombudsman sent letters to the Ministry of Justice and Defence. What is quoted in the majority comment is the following: «I do not believe that this is coverage in the third paragraph of Section 16 of the Interpretation by the City Councils on the basis of their practice. The solution that should be chosen for publicity for matters dealt with in the urban councils under municipal parliamentarism is a legislative issue. The case shows that there is a need to clarify the issue of public access to the City Council under municipal parliamentarism. By reference to Section 11 of the Civil Ombudsman Act, I find reason to inform the Ministry of the “deficiency” of the law that exists here.” It was correct for the Civil Ombudsman to do so. It was done, and it was done two years ago. This is a change in the law that there's a big disagreement about. It's a law change that matters a lot. I have also been able to drive through changes in the laws in Stortinget in a very short time, but what has been the understanding of Stortinget has been that both the government and the parties have agreed to do so – because it was not controversial, and it was not fundamentally important. Here we are in a completely different situation. We are in a situation where there is an important principle in relation to informing the matter and in relation to the People's Government, and that is a question where the parties disagree. We have now experienced the development of a culture here where you don't have to be sure that the government has its own government parties in the hall, and that makes this more and more demanding and interesting. It will then be important that we clarify what the government's position in the matter is. We need an explanation as to whether this is an accident at work in the co-operation between government and big business. It is necessary to clarify whether this is happening in line with the position of the Council of State. The Council of State must clarify this from the pulpit of Storting: Is the Council of State dependent on the Storting treating and making decisions in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1682	To the end, I can say that the summation of several articles by the rapporteur today also sums up what has been the government's starting point in this matter. The size is also free to deal with this type of legislative amendment in the way that the Storting has dealt with this legislative amendment. I respect that there is a great deal of disagreement on these issues in the Stortinget, of course, but I dare remind you that, relatively shortly ago, following a proposal from the Central Party, we changed the provisions on the limitation of the murder fire without prior treatment, consultation or the like from the government. It was an initiative from the Central Party to change the penal code, to which the Stortinget joined – as far as I remember – almost unanimously. So that kind of process isn't particularly challenging for this hall, even for the Center Party, in other things. I understand that there may be differences between matters and the political commitment and disagreement, but I believe that the Storting is good within the framework of this matter, of course. The Stortinget is free to be, and of course, the government is behind its own big business.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1691	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1694	Since the Council of State and former Chairman of the Control Committee brings in the section on arson, I must state that when the limitation period for arson was dealt with, there was a broad consensus on that. It was also a crucial prerequisite for the Committee of Inquiry into Scandinavian Star Accidents, which has now taken place. So it's not relevant to involve in this context. So that's what we agreed on. There was a factual reason to equate different types of murder, in this case arson with other types of murder. It was a prerequisite for the Committee of Inquiry to do the job that all the parties in the Storting are now agreed to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1700	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1714	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1721	Today, there is a plural setting for Stortinget to ask the government to propose that the jury be abolished. There's an arrangement we've had in Norway since 1887, and so this is one day that will be written in particular in the history of Norway. I would like to thank you for your cooperation with the other parties in the committee on this matter and am pleased that the majority are behind the setting. The center part is divided by multiples, and I leave it up to the people themselves to do good for their vision. The jury system was introduced in 1887 and has undergone major changes. Today, she is only used in the most serious criminal cases. Of the 1,500 cases in court, about 300 go to the jury. For the Labour Party, it is important to maintain the popular and democratic principle of co-determination in Norwegian courts. That is to say, we're concerned that when one replaces the jury with a right of co-determination, the toy people are going to be in multiple numbers. A major problem with today's jury order is that the jury does not justify its verdict. The debt question is decided in the right of the layer-man only with a 'yes' or 'no'. An offended party, for example: in an electoral case, they are not told whether they are trusted, whether there was a lack of evidence or what caused them to be accused, for example. goes free. A person who is accused and convicted does not know what actually killed him or her. This is an open problem for the legal certainty of all parties in criminal proceedings. Such a system is such that it is not possible to verify whether a decision has been taken on the correct basis, whether the evidence page has been properly assessed and whether the rules of law have been properly applied. In matters dealt with by a jury of law-enforcement courts, there is a basis from the open-voting court, while the appeals of the law-enforcement court in juries end up with a non-reasoning and anonymous court ruling from the debt issue. This is in line with the Committee's plurality that the jury system should be replaced by a co-judgment. It is, in the opinion of the majority, a guarantee of legal certainty that fundamentals are correct, precise and complete. It is also crucial from the point of view of the majority that this process does not take place after the decision is taken, but that it is taken as part of the process itself. We think that there is a premise for well thought out and reasoned decisions that a person is working on the foundation when a person is going to make the decision. The line of argument I was just through, explains why the majority in the committee does not support the so-called "layer right fraction" in the jury selection, but also supports the co-judicial fraction. The jury selection that gave us the NOU 2011: 13 Jury Committee, when true is to be written, was simply divided into this question, but were some that the co-judgment would be passed on as a procedural form for all matters except the most serious. Medjugorjektion as a procedural system has not been the subject of professional criticism. It's got the jury order. All the hearing authorities that took part in our hearing on March 3rd were to wind up the jury system. We notice that no one had a special opinion about the size of the court, but everyone thought it was important that laymen should be in plurals. Finally, I would also like to refer to an economic relationship in this matter. The Committee was informed by the Court of Justice at the hearing that it could save about 16 million. kr to wind up the jury arrangement. There are means that the Labour Party must be left in the courts by such a change, not that one takes the funds out of a change from a jury to a co-judgment. With this, I closed my case manager's post and am very happy that there are now several in Stortinget to wind up the jury order.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1744	It's been talking for a long time, many years, about changing the jury system. Now it happens. It's a little bit overtime, but the more joyous that the conclusion becomes like it. The changes now being notified must be based on two very important principles. The first is that legal certainty should be strengthened. We have heard through the debate – I think everyone has mentioned it at some point – that the decisions have to be justified. I guess that's good. In 2015, this was to be almost a matter of course, but there are today many prisons behind locks and punches without knowing how the jury reasoned when it arrived at the guilt assessment. Nor have they been able to attack those assessments. It means uncertainty, and it means less legal certainty. But legal certainty is not just about giving reasons, it's just as much about making decisions that's right. Research suggests that many who have been in the jury have experienced uncertainties related to difficult issues that have tended to have occurred in border countries between law and politics. A better follow-up from the trade unions can therefore make better and safer decisions. I don't share the belief that it's going to be right away for professionals and playwrights to sit together, it's going to be an overrun from professionals. A close cooperation between professionals and playwrights today works very well in the plus-minus 15 000 cases. Of course, it will also work well to replace the jury system. The second premise on which this change must be based is that laymen should continue to play a very central role in Norwegian justice. This becomes primarily a question of which ratios to exist between laymen and professionals. Here there are a lot of models to choose from – many countries you can be inspired by. The central thing for us here today is that we are signaling clearly that it is still an important fundamental principle in our legal system that we should be judged by our peers. Finally, I would like to thank the proposers, and I would like to thank the other parties who have joined the majority in the matter. We need to have great respect for the fact that the jury has had its function and its time. Nearly 130 years ago, the introduction of the jury system represented an important guarantee of the participation and position of children in the judiciary. Together, we are now going to make sure that justice is even stronger over the next 130 years. The sharp professionalism of the judge and the healthy judgements of the layman will together provide better judicial decisions and better legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1757	Today, we are going to adopt a decision of principle which is historic, as the rapporteur mentioned. We've had a jury order in approx. 130 years now with this principle decision goes into history, and then we're going to start something new if not for too long in our courts. This is going to be exciting. Let me first thank the case rapporteur, who has presented the matter in a very good way, and also thank those with whom we have cooperated in this matter. There is a broad majority in favour of making changes, and I think it is important in such a large and important case that there is a broad majority standing behind and adopting a decision of principle, and that gives an order to the government to make a proposition on how it is possible to introduce a new system of co-determination. The jury system is over-mature for reform. A NOU from 2011 has been referred to, and it was unanimously concluded that the scheme should not be continued in its current form. The whole point is to strengthen legal certainty, as the previous speakers have also pointed out. So I'm very happy that you've agreed to do just that; you're increasing legal certainty with the new system. It is a fundamental principle to justify the decisions of the authorities. The most serious criminal cases are today decided by a jury without the need to justify the guilt issue. Both defendants and victims have a legitimate need to know how the court has taken a decision on the blame in a serious criminal case. Paradoxically, there are clear requirements and guidelines for a reasoned decision when the authorities refuse to extend the garage, to impose a parking ban or to refuse to set up a fence. The Administrative Act is also clear that it is illegal to adopt individual decisions without justification. But in serious criminal cases, there is no justification. So I'm very happy that you now get what's in the preamble to the position of the Justice Committee, where one part is going from a jury to a court, and the other part, which is at least equally important, is that you give reasons for the judgment. I believe that the consequences of today's legislation are that less serious crime and administrative decisions – of all things – have better guarantees of legal certainty, while the most serious crime does not. It's been a long process. As the Advocate General pointed out, the jury system has existed in Norway since 1887. There has been strong criticism of the lack of legal certainty caused by today's regime. I can refer you to a case from the European Court of Human Rights in January 2009. It was not Norway, but it was Belgium. It was clearly stated that a judgment was invalid because in Belgium he had not received a justification for the jury’s decision. The legal system in Belgium is very similar to that in Norway, and today’s system is therefore completely at the limit of what is proper under human rights. You have to have a reason why you're being judged. We in the Progress Party do not want a legal system that balances the limits of what is legally sound. We want a system of good and safe legal guarantees, not least in the most serious criminal cases. Every year some 15 000 criminal cases are handled by courts of law and tribunals, while some 15 000 cases are dealt with. 300 jurors a year. It is inappropriate, as the Progress Party and I see it, to maintain a special regime for a small minority of criminal cases, especially when this leads to a deterioration in legal certainty. An extension of the co-judicial regime, which ensures a clear obscurity of toys, will be an important reform in order to improve legal certainty in Norwegian courts. Although the criticism of the lack of legal certainty in the jury cases has been present for a long time, there has been little willingness to solve the problem. There have been processes in several parties to arrive at the position that many parties have now arrived at and that embrace a broad majority of the Stortinget. I am glad that Stortinget now gets a solution to something that has been an intense problem in Norwegian law care. I look forward to the proposition that the government has announced that you will come to Stortinget to present the details of how a new system can be implemented, and how we can thus ensure and improve legal certainty for the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1778	I would like to start by saying that once again we are going to deal with a good case, for today is historic – it will be part of the history books as a victory for legal certainty. The Christian People's Party has been able to get through to abolish the jury system and replace it with co-judgment – I guess I don't have to say that it happens with a Document 8 proposal. In short, it means that both the accused and the offended are now to be given a reason for any acquittal or judgment. That's good. This will lead to increased legal certainty. The jury system shall be replaced by co-judgment, whereby both judges and laymen will make their judgment known. The claim that legal certainty is now weakened because one is no longer to be judged by equals is therefore wrong. Leakers shall still have a majority. The player element is strong. When the jury system was introduced, it contributed to an important change in Norwegian criminal proceedings. Many of the considerations on which the jury system is based apply today, including: to be judged by equals. The repeal of the jury system does not lead to the collapse of this principle. The majority in the composition of the court shall remain a layman. On the other hand, there are other elements of the grounds for the jury arrangement that do not have the same relevance anymore. Today, the jury is only involved in the most serious criminal cases of law enforcement, including drug cases, serious drug cases, morals, etc. According to the suspension of the jury committee, there are currently approximately 15 000 criminal cases per year for co-judgment, while there are only about 300 jurisprudence cases. So the jury is used in a large minority of all criminal cases dealt with by the courts. The jury only settles the guilt question – by anonymous voting and without justification. The jury's verdict may be set aside by the tradesmen's courts. The whole matter is then re-examined with co-judgment with three tradesmen and four laymen. The right of access is thus the guarantee of legal certainty today! The jury has been under debate for a long time – the last time when the jury gave its opinion in 2011. A single sample agreed to continue co-judgment in all cases except in the most serious evidence cases. They pointed out that today's composition of co-judgment with three professionals and four co-judges works well, and that it has general acceptance. In addition, the sample pointed out that judicial cooperation as a procedural mechanism has not been subject to professional criticism. In spite of this consensus, the selection was divided into two equal fractions on whether or not the jury scheme should be repealed. The jury has several clear weaknesses. The Court of Justice shall give judgment in accordance with a transparent, sound and efficient procedure. This will contribute to, inter alia: by reason of the fact that the Court is now required to give reasons for all its decisions. It will help to ensure that the decision can be verified on the correct basis, whether the evidence has been properly assessed and whether the legal rules have been correctly applied. In cases dealt with by the jury, there is a reasoned judgment from the open voting tribunal, while appeal proceedings may end with an unfounded and anonymous recognition of the guilt issue. This clearly weakens legal certainty in my view and is in favour of replacing the jury with co-judgment. It is a guarantee of legal certainty that the reasons are correct, precise and complete. The introduction of co-judgment in all cases will also result in a more efficient system and better use of the resources of the Court. Among other things, the double treatment that the jury can provide is not allowed. Now that we have dealt with the issue of jury order, it has been very important for the Christian People's Party that we did not fall on a compromise, but that we were able to see through to our proposal to lift the jury system and replace it with co-judicial law. The reason for this is, among other things, judicial cooperation ensures that the reasons are written as part of the process and not after the issue of the defendant is settled. In my view, it is a prerequisite to arrive at a well-considered and well-founded decision that we are working on the rationale when we are going to make a decision. And if we're going to make sure this, it's absolutely vital that those who have made the decision are involved in writing it. I am therefore pleased with the adoption of co-judicial measures in all cases. It will help to increase legal certainty because the decision is taken in interaction between professionals and laymen. Some people have claimed that if you introduce co-judicial law and cancel the jury scheme, your homework will be overrun. In fact, there is no empirical basis to claim this. On the other hand, there is research to show that jury members experience being overrun by other jury members. The layman element is therefore reinforced by co-judicial law. Finally, I would like to thank the Right, the Advance Party and the Labour Party for their cooperation. I look forward to dealing with this matter and also to the composition of the court.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1801	The jury in Norway has long traditions. It's a system that's itself ideal for judging by its equals. The system has been in operation since 1887. The debate is about the relationship between play and learning and how society can best balance these concerns in matters of great seriousness. Judging another person is one of the most demanding tasks you can have. It is important to preserve the responsibilities of the doctors at that time. Judging someone for criminal offences shall not be commonplace. The centre party wants to keep the jury order. We believe that the jury system strengthens legal certainty and does not weaken it. One should not keep a scheme just because it has long traditions, but for the Central Party, there are serious reasons not to abolish the scheme. In 2011, the Jury Committee presented its decision to set up the scheme. The selection was divided into the middle of the question as to whether the scheme should be retained or replaced with a great deal of co-decision. This shows how complex and difficult the question is. In recent years, this has been a separate debate on the jury system. The debate is particularly concerned with the fact that, in court cases, there is no justification for the decision on the guilt issue. A reasoned decision from the tribunal may be changed in the law of the law of the law, without the law giving rise to its judgment. Of course, we must take this seriously, but that does not mean that the system must be scrapped. There's a reason here to look at the Danish model. One shall be well aware to claim that the jury arrangement results in false convictions or that the guilty person is released. The system already has security valves where the jury can set aside the jury's credentials if there are manifest errors. The jury shall only be used in the most serious cases. The common man in the street hears the evidence of the appeal and makes a statement about the guilt question and answers yes or no. The center game is occupied with a foundation for the guilt question. This often makes it easier for the parties to respect the judgment, possibly making the appeal in force. We think that this is possible to get to and find arrangements for not abolishing the scheme. The reactions to the removal of the jury scheme are many. Especially from the defense stand there are strong protests. The leader of the Defense Group in the Law Association, Frode Sulland, believes that ‘the removal of the jury would be a major loss for legal certainty in Norway. With all our common experience of serious criminal cases, we have always seen the jury as the best way to counter false convictions, and that is the most important criterion of legal certainty.’ I think there are several flaws in the plural argument to abolish the jury order. I want to make the following comment in the setting: ‘The majority indicate that it is important that laypeople do not feel overwhelmed by professionals. Co-judgment gives the children the opportunity to influence the thinking and judgements of the disciplines. In the view of the majority, this will strengthen the position of the children, and thus also the layman's element, through co-judgment. In the opinion of the majority, this is in favour of the repeal and replacement of the jury system by co-decision.’.» The majority assume that it is important that lessons are not overrun by disciplines. Of course, this is a very good starting point, but it is not an overrun that is the problem. It wasn't in 1887 either. The problem is the imbalance that has always been there between play and learnt, and makes something overrun absolutely unnecessary for the learner to have the full and complete takeover. Officials are not the most susceptible to influence between toys and leather, to say the least. It's about people's power against government and bureaucracy, just like in 1887. In this kind of case, we as legislators have to think about long-term. Everyone should get a foundation for the guilt question, but it's not the same thing that the jury system should be scrapped. The centre party will vote against this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1831	It is a historic day today with this decision. But it's not a happy day for it. The jury system, introduced in 1887, was introduced to ensure that we are judged by equals rather than by officials. It was an important part of the democratization of Norway, and it has been a battle cause for the Left since then. Today it is only in the most serious cases, approx. 300 things a year, we're using the jury order. But that doesn't mean that the jury doesn't have an important function in our legal system. On the contrary, the jury system represents an important principle, which today has a strong shot at the bow. The jury ensures full control of laymen, while in co-judgment the lawyers will be involved in all stages, always. Although that is the case, and still will be the case, that there are laymen who are going to have a majority in a co-judgment, I think there's good reason to be concerned about how the relationship between laymen and tradesmen is going to develop. Because we all know the slogan that knowledge is power. Knowledge gives power. After five or six years on the juxtaposition, it is clear that you have a completely different starting point when you sit there as a professional in meeting the laymen when you have to judge. There is a concern that we seem to have been an important reason for maintaining the jury system. Although it concerns only a few issues, it is a matter of maintaining a principle in which there are laymen who rule and not just civil servants. Then it is that we already have an important safety valve today by allowing professionals to set aside a decision made by the jury if they believe it is wrong, and then you will receive a new treatment in the law of the team with the right of co-determination. So legal certainty is ensured even if you want a court of law. I would also like to refer to the Legal Affairs Committee's Frode Sulland, the defender group, which is quite clear that the best guarantee of legal certainty is, in fact, the jury system and not the courts. But, of course, we have to admit that the jury system is not perfect. It's problematic that you don't get a reason for a jury. It is particularly problematic in those cases where one is acquitted in the District Court for a reason, and then to be convicted in the Lawyers' Court for no reason. We recognize that, and it provides a basis for looking into the jury system to see what we can do to correct that problem. But that doesn't mean you have to scrape the entire jury system to address a concrete issue. On the contrary, you can get the jury to justify their positions, so that whoever gets to know is guilty, knows why you're guilty. The left does not want an official field in the courts. We want the principle of the layman element to exist. We still want a jury order, and we are going to vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1848	I have noticed that the word «historic» has a little loose today. I'm a little bit in doubt if that word is right, but there's going to be a significant change, I agree. The second thing I've noticed today is that I'm free to adopt Document 8 proposals. It should actually enjoy the opposition, but it's something that's not right anyway, because SV is going to vote against the proposal here, in line with what is in our program. But let me make some comments, because this is a matter where I think it's really argument both ways, and it's a complex matter. And it's not like we have a either-or-system, we have a mixing system in most of the justice system today. There is no doubt, in my view, that the fact that the jury does not justify its decision is a real argument against the jury system as it works today, also because it is in the most serious cases we have a jury, matters where it can often be important, not least for the victim, that there is a foundation. I also agree with the representative, Nybø, that in cases where a court decision has first been given that is the basis, and then it does not get it – it may seem particularly problematic if it is changed, and I also notice that the hearing authorities have a very clear point in their setting here. And yet I would say that on the other hand, it's fundamental – I don't know if the word 'principle' is the most descriptive either, but I want to say a fundamental idea – in our national government that one should be able to be judged by his peers. It is closely linked to the emergence of modern democracy and the rule of the people and the self-esteem we have of how Norway should be governed. And the fact that we left it, or go away from it in the most serious cases, I think I'm deeply problematic, and that there's strong arguments against it. Then we also have a certain proof that in cases with the jury, the playwrights see evidence as even higher than the professionals do, among other things. in that the jury is regularly set aside, and I think it can vote to say that it is just as likely to be argued that legal certainty is linked to having a jury in the most serious cases being increased. So I've also noticed what the Center Party wrote in its comments, and I think it's interesting, if we were to continue the jury arrangement, to look at ways where it might be required that the jury come up with a basis for their view, to meet the best criticism of the jury system that we have. Now I see that there are going to be multiples for the proposal, so it's not going to happen, but SV is going to follow what's in our program, and vote against the committee's plural position.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1861	Whether the day is historic or not, later on, I get to say something about it, but at least I think the follow-up to the decision will eventually end up in something that could be considered historic. I would like to thank the Committee and the rapporteur for a good piece of work, and I would also like to stress that there have been a lot of good, thoughtful and reflective posts, whether for or against the jury system. This is a demanding matter. There's a lot of commitment – and it's been over many, many years – and the government has written in its government platform that we're going to renew the jury system. It can be done in many ways, for example: by integrating the jury into a large jurisdiction, for example, but there is no doubt that the decades we have behind us with discussions on the jury system have also led to the clarification of some of the challenges of the jury system – for example, lack of justification. The aim of the jury system is to ensure that you have a layman's mark that is so strong that one is actually judged by his peers. It's a nearly 130-year legal tradition that you're discussing today, where a decision is taken that one should gradually depart from that legal tradition. Someone will probably find reason to raise the flag today; others will probably still wait with it or keep it down. There is also a perspective that has so far been related to the difference between the debate on laymen’s posts and the jury’s system today, namely that the distance between laymen and ‘teachers’ is less today than it was 130 years ago. We have a population that has a much higher level of education, and that also means that the “class distinction” that was in a way an important reason for the jury system, that one should not be ruled by an official state, but in these kinds of cases should be judged by their peers, at least has a slightly different shape than that it had 130 years ago. I believe it is the government's task now to follow up this decision by ensuring that we take the very best of the jury into a new system of co-decision. It's going to be a lot of work. As Stortinget is familiar with, we are also working on a revision of the Criminal Procedures Act, but the work on the jury system has been taken out of that process system, because this has been investigated for a long time. This proposal gives clear leadership, and the Stortinget has said in many ways what they want as a final result. However, the assessment of the arrangements for this is necessary to have a thorough and proper review of what is also the very best aspect of the jury system.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1876	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1880	The Committee has been informed by the Court of Justice that removing the jury regime and replacing it with a co-judgment would save about 16 million. kr. Now it's probably going to be possible to vary that number, and as the Council says, you have to come back to the cottage to have co-courts, etc. But my question is, if it turns out that there is a great potential for savings to change the process, will the Council of State agree with the Labour Party that the money should be left in the courts?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1887	I do not, of course, pre-empt the budgetary procedure, of course, as the representative of Mrs Waogslid knows very well. But I want to say that the savings potential is not a good reason to change the process form. When discussing the issue of jury or co-judgment, it is the principal, important arguments that must govern the decision, and therefore I also think it is far too early to say anything about what a potential for savings might be. In fact, one can risk the opposite, that is to say, that a new right of co-determination will have a layman's perspective that will help to increase costs in relation to what is today's practice. So I think it's a little early to conclude whether this is going to be cheaper or more expensive, and I also think it's really not so important in a discussion about the really big issues in Norwegian criminal justice, about who is going to judge them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1894	The council says in its statement that today there is less difference between play and learning than it was in 1887 when the jury system was introduced, and he certainly has the right thing to do, but now it is the case that the jury system is used only in the most serious cases, approx. 300 things a year. It's probably also the issues where it's most important that you be judged by your peers, if we want to continue with the important principle. So my question to the Council of State is, what does the Council of State think will happen to the relationship between professionals and laymen when we no longer have laymen to control that process alone? The Council of State sees that there are some challenges to this, given that the tradesman has so much longer education on what to do here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1901	I have no problem seeing potential challenges in it. That's why it's so important now that in the job to be done, we are able to take care of what's the best side of the jury system, namely that the jury has very much the competence to decide the criminal issue itself, but that now with an extended jurisdiction one will have a common responsibility with the trade unions. Then I'm a little in doubt as to the role that the tradesmen have today, is just as strong in a court context with a great courtship as it may have been in the past. And then I'm a little bit in doubt as to whether one can somehow attack co-judgment as an institution or as a way of acting as a defense of the jury system, simply because the vast majority of criminal cases, which the representative himself is involved in, are indeed being brought before a co-judicial court, and that must mean that we believe that it is a sound and good system in all other criminal cases. Then it is rather a question, in my opinion, that in the most serious cases one should also take care of a perhaps even stronger perspective of a layman than what is done in today's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1908	One of the reasons why the jury system is closed as it is today is that there is no justification and that it is problematic. I agree that it is problematic, not only for the victim of the crime in question, but also for the convicted person, that one does not have a reason why he is convicted. Does the Council of State realize that instead of getting rid of the entire jury system, we could have improved the system we have today by imposing a justification on the jury, so that we can address what is perhaps the biggest challenge of today's jury system?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1915	There's no doubt that there's alternative ways to solve this. It is possible to introduce mechanisms that also justify the jury’s decisions. Then there will always be a question of the reason that would give a necessary added value, whether it would be more resource-intensive compared to the increased legal certainty that will be a consequence of it. It's a perfectly legitimate position to have, to think that one could impose a duty of justification on the jury. Now I am recording that the Storting is quite clear about what they want, and then I have been very clear from Storting’s pulpit that it is important to take care of the layman’s perspective, and I also experience that everyone who has spoken today is concerned that if possible, it will be taken care of even more strongly than what is being done today. So I think it's important to find a solution that both takes care of legal certainty in a proper way, gets with a reason and has a playful feature that's very strong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1922	There is no doubt that the class differences in 1887 were much larger than they are today, but there is no doubt that those who joined the jury in 1887 and who represented the doctors were wise people. They represented a knowledge, they represented a popular education tradition, where, for example, Hans Nielsen Hauge was one of those who contributed to this knowledge building. So to present the jury system as a – what to say – less wise system, I don't think I'm particularly comprehensive, and that's what the council says, when he shows such respect for the jury system, as I understand here: in the meaning of the layman's mind. My question is that we are now taking away the strong vote of the layman when the jury order is gone. In other contexts, we go into ombudsmen to control bureaucracy. How does it relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1929	I would first like to clarify what appears to be some sort of misunderstanding – that I should think that the jury is a less wise system, or that those sitting on the jury are necessarily less wise today than they were before. I don't mean that. I believe there have been very good reasons for the jury during that time the jury has worked, but at the same time I believe that one must take into account that society is changing. We have a population composition today where the proportion of higher education is much higher — without that meaning that those who were in the jury earlier were less wise. I just don't want to have it on me. When it comes to the issue of ombudsmen and the jury system, I am not quite sure whether I understand the comparison well enough. But what I've been very concerned about in the post – which the government is concerned about, and which I feel everyone here has been concerned about – is that one should ensure the layman's perspective well into a new arrangement as well. So the government will explore different models of how it can be handled in the best possible way. I believe that the perspective that Lundtigen is concerned about will also be able to be achieved in a good way with a new system.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1936	Members of the jury have a great responsibility. Therefore, it is the foremost among equals who are chosen there, as one must exercise wisdom based on experience and knowledge over time. What the Council of State says is that when one takes away the jury order, this discretion will be preserved even more strongly. How can one maintain that consideration even more strongly through a co-judgment where the laymen are with the skilled, while a former one had a jury where the toy was the jury? It was a delay, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1941	It may be that it is the foremost of the top equals chosen for the jury, but it is the same who will be chosen for co-judgment. I have to say that I have great confidence in the playwrights of today's society. I have always had that and believe it has been well taken care of through the jury system. But I'm not convinced that anyone else can say that the playwrights who participate in a co-judgment can automatically be overrun by the tradesmen. I don't think it's such a big challenge as it might have been in the past. Then the playmate's key is to make sure. Everyone here has been concerned about doctors being a majority. Everyone has been concerned that the layman’s appearance should not be weakened. Then it will be up to the government to review these leaderships, to propose a model with an extended right of co-determination that will meet the challenges that you will now face, and at the same time to take into account the benefits that the jury has had.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1948	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1954	Norwegian courts and Norwegian judges have great confidence in Norwegian society. We're supposed to be happy about that. There's no coincidence that it's like this. That trust helps to strengthen and legitimize the rule of law. So today, we're taking over the jury system as a system, and we're dealing with one of the biggest paradoxes in the Norwegian judiciary, namely that in the most serious criminal cases, the judge of the jury dismisses the jury without justification on the issue of guilt. There are different views about this in the trade union environment – there is no doubt about it. The question has been thoroughly investigated, and the last jury investigation is divided in the middle, which we all know about. But we now have in place and have established a solid majority in the Grand Duchy that takes this paradox from the point of view, as I interpret the debate, a common interest in strengthening the position of the courts and judges in the state of law, including the place of the laymen in the same situation. There has been a little discussion about whether this might be called a joyous day or whether it has other characteristics. At least I would say that the decision we are making today is a milestone. It is a milestone in the Norwegian judicial system that the jury now has to be sent to the Ministry of Justice for an investigation in order to establish a court of law instead. I have both confidence and confidence that this mission will be managed in a way that ensures and strengthens the legal certainty of society, and that the subsequent debate in the extension of the proposal that comes back to Stortinget will help to provide Norwegian judges, whether they are playful or learned, and Norwegian courts with increased legitimacy and authority in the rule of law. It's important, and that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1967	First, I would like to thank the representative Iselin Nybø from the Left, who confirmed the historic Left line, which is also guarded here in the Chamber – in this case as in the question of whether we should make a constitutional change that gave the Supreme Court the right and duty to the right to test, now set out in Section 89 of the Constitution. As has been said by several – the jury committee disagreed on what was going to happen to the jury. There were different assessments of legal certainty. It also comes out here. It is fundamental to the Central Party's understanding of the People's Government that one of the issues we are talking about here should be judged by equals – by the foremost of our equals – and when the Council of State says that the layman's gender is not weakened, but rather strengthened, by the repeal of the jury system, we are fundamentally in disagreement on a principle basis. And that's what I want to say. The plural says in the setting: ‘The majority indicate that it is important that the lessonrs do not feel overwhelmed by professionals. Co-judgment gives the children the opportunity to influence the thinking and judgements of the disciplines. In the view of the majority, this will strengthen the position of the children, and thus also the layman's element, through co-judgment. In the opinion of the majority, this is in favour of the repeal and replacement of the jury system by co-decision.’.» So what is being said here is that the lesson of being deprived of the sovereign power of decision that they have today, through the jury system, is strengthened by being able to participate in co-judgment and thus affect trade unions. This is an incredibly special argument. So the majority of the committee believes that it is in the best interests of the children to be deprived of their maritime rights, in exchange for the possibility of influencing officials. I would say on the verge that the majority assumes that it is important that the lessons are not overrun by the disciplines. It's a perfectly good starting point, but it's not overrun that's the problem. Neither was it in 1887. The problem is the imbalance that will always be there in the encounter between play and learning, and that makes overrun absolutely unnecessary for the learner to have the full and the entire takeover. It is not the officials who are most susceptible to influence between toys and leather in the meeting between toys and leather, to say the least. This is about the relationship between the power of the people and the power of the office. There are many ways the Storting can take one of its most proud decisions, but the argument now used is one of the most embarrassing for the Storing considering the historical power of the matter we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1983	Big words are used in this debate, and at my discretion, it may seem that some people have not quite got to know what the position of the majority is. Because it is clear in the notes that all the parties that make up this plurality are concerned that the playwrights are going to make up the plurality. It is not the case that doctors should only participate in the co-judgment; they should be the majority. We have received many input into the work on this matter, including: by the Advocate General of the Kingdom of Sweden. And there are a number of people who point to what I think is funny that doesn't get lifted higher, because if it was that co-judicial as a process form was so harmful to legal certainty in Norway, it's strange that he's not exposed to much more criticism than what he is. Because it turns out that both the laurel fraction and the co-judgment fraction in the Jury Selection were satisfied with the process of co-judgment, and everyone knows that the vast majority of cases are in favour of co-judgment. The jury system, on the other hand, has been subjected to massive criticism in recent years, and I believe that it is important to produce – and that it does not depend on a picture that the Labour Party or the other parties now want an office in Norway. It's to go far, far beyond what the debate is really about. I also think it's important to realize that one of the challenges with the layer right fraction setting was that they made up for the retrofitting of the assessments: that one should discuss first, come to a decision, and then a write the foundation afterwards. The majority of the committee writes in its comments that the proposition for good, well-thought-out decisions is that a reason gives them while one decides the question. It's a strength for the process we have in co-judgment today. That's why I think this is a happy day for legal certainty. We've been in the committee listening to a lot of recordings we've got from a professional point of view. Not least politically, I believe this is a strength, because we maintain and reinforce the layman's element in the following ways, and I would say that to the representative Lundtigen in particular: Empirically, there is nothing to show that it is an influence from disciplines to laity today. On the contrary, what we have been told about and what investigations in the courts show is that if the jury members experience influence and possible overrun, it is from the jury leader, not from the jury judges. So I feel very confident that the majority of people are now in favour of legal certainty, and it's a pleasure that we get the right to vote in all cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e1996	I think these were good reflections from the rapporteur at the end here. At the same time, I also understand the involvement of the representative Lundtägen in the strength and position of the layman in the Norwegian judiciary. But it's not that you can say that it can be placed on a perfectly clear scale, that a jury order will give 100 pst. influence, while a co-judicial right will give 50 pst. or 0. I think it's getting a little weird, because it has to be assessed against which model is actually presented by the government, what different models are being evaluated, and what model the Storting finally lands on. For example, one can. say that the doctor’s report is more influential by more people wanting to participate in the criminal investigation. Today, only a selection of members of the jury are involved in the criminal evaluation together with the professionals. So I think maybe we're drawing the conclusions a little too early as to the fact that the playwright's entry is going to be so small if you change the jury system to a co-judgment, which we don't yet know the composition of. Then I'm a little skeptical, I have to admit, when I hear the representative Lundtigen more or less say that it's the disciplines of a co-judgment that sit with all the power. Because that would indicate that the playwright's entry in today's courtrooms is irrelevant. I will strongly reject that. The playwright's entry in today's co-judgment courts has not been discarded at all. They are a very important part of the right to have the legitimacy that we depend on for the courts. Then you might wish that the layman's entry was even stronger. And it's these assessments we're going to get to now, when we're going to follow up this big decision, because it could be relevant to put the co-judgment in a completely new and different way. It is within the framework, as I read the decision of the Storting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2003	There have been several statements that are quite absolute, about all the power of the tradesmen and to introduce official powers. There are no formulations in which I recognize myself. There's nothing either – or here, that the Council of State was in, but there's a question of direction. There's questions about where we're going, about evolution. And what's happening now in several things that we've been dealing with is that one goes from a trust and a security to a layman, a general citizen – that one relieves some of the trust that has been there before – to those who are learned in the field. The center party supports a combination of a co-judgment and a jury, we support a system where one has the combination of play and leather. We see clear advantages of having it. But we're also so experienced that we're not naive about the relationship between play and leather in terms of influence. There is a lot of experience that suggests that scholars have a way of influencing their environment that is somewhat disproportionate to what needs to be a social view that has a broad understanding of how to punish. So this with official offices. I have not stated here that we are now introducing the spheres of office, but we are going in one direction. We're going in a direction where that's what's evolving. And what was my main concern is the argument that the majority came to the vote, where the majority ‘shows that it is important that laymen do not feel overwhelmed by professionals’, and that one with that reason should make this change. That's what I thought was a rather special reason that I chose to spend some time on, because the way the system worked, it has shown a sense that has led to a fairly broad uprising, and it's in a strong tradition in the relationship of government-management. And it's important to fence around.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2017	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2031	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2040	First, I would like to draw attention to the Christian People's Party, which has promoted this proposal for a representative, with initially twelve different proposals, as a contribution to the fight against violence against children. Furthermore, I would like to draw attention to an overall committee, and not least to the government, which is all concerned with this important issue. We've had this topic for discussion in Stortinget several times already in this period, and it goes back to all the treatments, that we're concerned about the topic and want improvements in the area. Violence against children is a serious social problem and is a serious crime that we cannot afford to continue on the same scale as it has been over the years. This is a serious public health problem that, in the worst case, can lead to the loss of life, and not least the loss of a good childhood and youth — a time when a person is laying the foundation for the rest of his life. On the 25th anniversary of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, the government presented the action plan ‘Good Childhood is a way of life’. It states that children and young people should have safe and good lives, where they are given the opportunity to be seen and develop in their growing-up environment. No one shall be subjected to violence or sexual assault. Through this plan, the government is paying great attention to the fact that in order to succeed in the fight against violence and sexual abuse against children, we as a society must be willing to invest, even if we do not see direct profit in the short term. In order to succeed, prevention and parental support must be given a greater place. In addition, the private and voluntary sector needs to be involved. The action plan presents 43 different responsible actions in several departments. This was a little bit of an insight to show that the government is also concerned about this important topic that we now have to deal with here in Stortinget. But then back to the proposal. All the proposals for action in this matter are important, but the main proposal is the promotion of an obligatory and comprehensive rapprochement plan aimed at reducing the incidence of violence in close relations and at strengthening the custody of children exposed to violence and abuse. This stepping-up plan shall be drawn up in accordance with the model of the Roadmap for Mental Health. The evaluation of the Roadmap for Mental Health shows the measures needed to achieve such a plan. A lot of different venues have to work to combat this problem. We all have to care and show willingness to respond if we are concerned about whether a child is subjected to violence or sexual assault. Through this proposal, the Stortinget government asks that health professionals have knowledge of exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy when abuse is suspected. Healthcare professionals or other employees may not hide their professional secrecy if a child is suspected of being subjected to violence or sexual assault. Furthermore, it is important that we also focus on both preventing violence and offering to violent people. It is not only useful to repair, we also need to ensure that such abuses do not happen again, and to facilitate that the perpetrators are able to overcome their actions. There are many different offers, such as: the formation Alternative to Violence, or the Brøset model, used by the Trondheim Conflict Council. What is important is that all municipalities, or the relevant employees in the municipalities, have knowledge of such offers, and provide the necessary help and guidance to those who need treatment, where they exist and where they can be helped. So I want to make it clear that the next Wednesday, we are going to deal with a proposition from the government, about change in criminal law, questioning children. There have been some solutions in the matter here today, which is kind of being taken care of when dealing with the proposition on Wednesday, so I think we will come back to this during the discussion. But as I said, there is a great deal of consensus in the Committee on this proposal, although the Labour Party has some alternative proposals, which I believe they will come back to through its articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2066	I want to start by thanking the case spokesman Margunn Ebbesen for a good job with the case. The Labour Party supports the vast majority of the proposals under consideration today. I would like to congratulate the Christian People's Party on making these suggestions. The Labour Party makes no own suggestions in this matter, but we maintain the proposals made by the Christian People's Party, and which they are no longer behind, which I could well think of righting a basis for from the representative of Ropstad. Violence and sexual abuse are serious crimes that have serious consequences, and it must be treated as the crime it is. I'm glad it's confirmed once more clearly from the Justice Committee's side. In the view of the Labour Party, a compulsory and holistic escalation plan is necessary to reduce the presence of power in close relations, and it is very positive that there is a joint committee behind the proposal of the Christian People's Party. In 2013, the red-green government presented a strategy against sexual abuse against children and young people. It is important that these actions are followed up in further work with the action plan we have chosen in close relations. I am also pleased that the Justice Committee again notes that the responsibility for children's homes will lie with the police in the future. The reason why I am very happy about it today is that the right at the national meeting decided on a request that if a larger municipality in Norway got one, one could leave the responsibility for the children's houses to larger municipalities. I'm glad that in the Justice Committee, some of us are cross-political that this is not a good idea. The plan "Good Childhood Ends Life" is a plan that has good intentions. But here we think that there has to be greater financial commitments, and we look forward to seeing it. For the Workers' Party, children's houses are very important. Today, we have major challenges in terms of capacity, and we think that the promises of children's homes must be lifted. We also believe that the funds must be earmarked. In recent times — including through the hearings of the Committee — we have been told that waiting times for withdrawals are beginning to rise again, and that some children’s homes, such as children’s homes, are beginning to rise again. in Trondheim, actually experiences a cut this year. The number of cases at the children's home is increasing dramatically, which is good to a large extent, because that means that cases for more kids today are being uncovered, and that they are getting help. But that means that they have to be met with greater will from the political mind with increased privileges for children's homes. We hope and expect to see it again in the draft state budget for 2016. I really believe that the level of ambition and measures such as: are in trouble today, is very good, but it does not help to focus on it – this is not free. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party with this proposal follows up elements of the Workers' Party's proposal last June to strengthen children's houses. It is very good that a joint committee asks the government to draw up guidelines for medical examinations and dental examinations at children's homes, and asks the government to review payment practices for medical examinations at children's homes to ensure equality. The Labour Party maintains, as has been said, proposals by the Christian People's Party, which they no longer promote. I believe that the proposal to ask the government to introduce a binding minimum standard in the school services is clearer than the proposal put forward. I think it's important for the government to ensure that the police continue to meet the deadlines for leaving children's homes. I believe that the government needs to strengthen children's homes as a centre of expertise with emphasis on coordinating work in relation to treatment and follow-up, and finally we maintain the proposal of the Christian People's Party to address the need for health professionals with clinical forensic competence in children's homes, and then to ensure that children's homes have the necessary access to this competence. I'm kind of wondering that we couldn't get a plurality of these proposals in the committee. Although I fully agree with the case-speaker, Mr Ebbessen said that proposal No. 1 is without doubt the most important thing, and this is also important and good suggestions from the Christian People's Party. The Labour Party will be on the offensive for children who have been elected in close relations and in Prop. 112, to be discussed on Wednesday, we propose the creation of a new children's home in the police district of East, which will be the new police district there, and the assessment of the creation of Finnmark. We repeat there the need to strengthen the loops for children's houses and ear tags. We're going to have a lot to do about this! It is often said that we are so few in this field, and we are often it – rhetorical, in debates and in words – but I also think we have to see it in concrete promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2089	The representative of Vågslid has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2092	There is a risk of arrogance when I again assert that this is a check-up case to deal with – it is really a big day in the work to combat violence against children. I would like to thank the Committee, the President-in-Office and the Council of State for the work that has been done here. It's been an offensive line all the way. I have raised the matter earlier, in the Questionnaire. Governments have been positive and offensive, the cooperation parties have been offensive, and the Workers' Party has been very offensive. The decision we are making today is incredibly good, and the many who are to have the credit for it. It is at least incredibly important, because it will help to strengthen the fight, so that we can fight violence against children. As we write in the draft representative, in 2006 there were 81 reports related to violence against children. Last year it was approx. 2,000. It's an incredible increase and a positive increase, in the sense that these are things that were not previously reported, but that are now coming out of the darkness and coming out. This also shows a little bit of the amount. NKVTS figures show that approx. 5 pst. of the population has been subjected to serious violence by their superiors during their growth. It says a little bit about the extent and the severity. We also know that many of those who are subjected to violence and abuse become delinquents or violent perpetrators when they grow up. So when we say that a good childhood lasts its life, it's actually a more correct description that a good childhood goes for generations. At least it can do that. Instead of becoming a violent person and letting it go out on one's own children, a good childhood can ensure that one's own kids get well again. We politicians have obligations to intervene when the world, which is to be the safest of a child, is perceived as perhaps the most dangerous place to be. I would like to stress that there are good plans. There is a good government action plan, to which several have referred. This proposal for a representative complements this matter. There are eight good Roman numerals here. Like others, I want to focus on I, which is the second most important, namely an escalation plan to combat violence against children. We all agree that there is a need for a lift. We all agree that we should have got up to this level, but action plans are not necessarily filled with money. Now we say that we want to copy what happened to the mental health escalation plan, which lasted from 1999 to 2008, which was a success. There was an agreement to invest 6.3 billion. kr. One agreed that the operating costs would actually be 4.6 billion. kr higher at the end of the plan. This is something we want to copy, that it should last for a long time. This shall be a multidisciplinary plan, one which shall implement all stages of the action chain. It shall be a long-term plan, and it shall be ear-marked. The last is one of the things that made the mental health plan a success. This means that one should strengthen prevention, which we all know is important, and which we all agree on is most important, but which is demanding to prioritise in the budget after budget. Therefore, ringing is important. This means health, health sisters. It means competence in the health care system, which many people have experienced. It means competence in child protection. It means competence in kindergarten and school, enough hands — enough people with the skills needed to identify what is happening. We've all heard stories about e.g. how it is in the children's houses, how to detect that a bruise is something more than just that one has fallen. There shall also be a focus on research and follow-up of children. There may be more money for children’s homes, for the police and for various measures — many of which have been involved — to improve the follow-up of young people who have been subjected to violence and abuse. I can now say – to the comfort of the Minister of Justice – that the Christian People's Party will prioritise this in its budgets. We're going to help raise the budgets, because this is something we've prioritised every year – along with the government parties and the left – and we're going to do it further. I would like to say more, but would just point to one of the other proposals for decisions, namely mandatory site of death. It's an important proposal, as we see it. We know that there are some challenges to that. That's why I'm excited about the follow-up from the department. We want to be in dialogue on how this can be implemented. Then I was challenged by the representative Awake! on why we do not promote – and vote for – the Christian People's Party's own proposals. It's mainly because you're the most important. As the representative of Leirstein said, this is a kind of deal that we have made with the government parties to get through. But it is also because many of the proposals have been taken care of, for example. in the letter of assignment of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Something has been taken care of in the case of questioning, which comes on Wednesday, and something is e.g. and that we have an investigation of a minimum standard, rather than a proposal that we would like to have such a standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2118	Let me first thank the Christian People's Party for once again putting a very important topic on the agenda. It has been treated several times before, but it is a theme that is so important that having focus on it repeatedly is important. Violence and sexual assault have serious and long-lasting consequences for young people who are exposed to it. As others have been in, it destroys the whole childhood, it destroys the whole youth, but it also destroys the opportunities one had to make it one would make out of the rest of life. That's why it's incredibly important that we, as politicians, focus on this and do what we can, both to prevent and to facilitate for those who have been exposed to it. That is why, in the Left, we are also very pleased that we are now getting an obliging escalation plan, both to focus on reducing the incidence of violence in close relations, and not least to strengthen the care of the children and young people who are exposed to it. I want to mention two of the things that stand in the matter, first of all what goes on in kindergarten. It is promised in the case that kindergarten is an important venue for exposing violence and sexual assault. It's hard to disagree with, for if 90 pst. of all children between one and five years of age go to kindergarten – as it says in the setting that was the case in 2013 – it gives us a unique arena to reach very many young people at a very early stage. But then we also need kindergartens that are able to discover and follow up the kids who are exposed to this. Therefore, this must also be about strengthening the competence of those who work in kindergartens, so that they know what to look for. If they detect violence against children, it is also important that they have the competence to care for those young people who are still going to kindergarten and are to be followed up on it. Then I would like to make some comments on this with the school health service, for the representative Ropstad raised a health sister. I fully agree that the health sister is an important key person in this work at school, because, like kindergarten, the school is also an arena where one reaches very many – in fact when one as well as all through the school system, and that gives us a unique opportunity to catch up with the kids that it had to deal with. Now I've been on a little school tour this spring with Trine Skei Grande, and we've visited many schools around the country. One of the feedback we get is that we don't just have to look at the health sister blindly, we have to think wider. Some of them are busy having psychologists, some of them point to psychiatric nurses, some of them want police and other people attached to them at their school. But the goal for everyone is to catch up with the kids involved, those who have problems at home, who have problems telling them that they have problems at home, and who have no one to tell it to or who can help them deal with it. So I'm also a little concerned – when we talk about the school health service – that we don't just have to look at one profession, we have to think a little bit wide because there are very different needs and you have different approaches. I think as a big crowd we should be open for the schools out there to see that there are different needs. At least I'm glad we're now getting this lifted up. Then we'll see what the result of it is, but I think we'll agree that the school health service needs to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2133	Violence is married in society, in the family and in life. And it doesn't just last for life – it lasts for generations. It's also like we have to think that it happens before we can see it, because it's so hard to deal with it for both adults and employees in different institutions. So I would like to thank the proposers. These are many good proposals – we support them. The proposal that is on our table today is not being promoted, because it will be discussed on Wednesday. I understand that the Christian People's Party's proposal is a small kick to the government, because there will not be enough action. It won't be high enough to prioritise the money. We can see that, among other things. as regards speeding up the use of children’s homes and court hearings, a matter on which SV took the initiative in due course and which is absolutely necessary to help the children who have been subjected to violence. So it's time to stop focusing and action plans, you have to put money on the table and strengthen, among other things. school health services with earmarked funds. The nurses’ association examined how money was prioritised for the school health service in free resources for the municipal sector. It wasn't a strengthened school health service. That's the way child protection has been. There must be enough earmarked money for people, competences, more court hearings and all the good helpers and the brave adults who should be able to dry up to help these children. Then you have to prioritize it in something other than words. The debate on child protection is not so strong today, and it's a little strange. Child protection is under both strong criticism and reorganization, and the most important thing then is that we listen to those children and what they want. And what they've told us is that what they want most is love, that someone is happy in them, that someone has time for them, and that someone looks after them and shows that they're worth being happy in. It storms very much around child protection by day. All the representatives here – like me – have probably received many e-mails today from very serious lawyers who are involved in these cases and who are concerned about legal certainty. I am, too, but I am most concerned that in the debate around it we throw out both the kids and the important employees with the bath water. There is a need to go through and strengthen child protection, but there is also a need to circle around those who work in child protection and who do some of the most difficult jobs in society. And I need to say this right now, that we, as politicians, have to call about those who do these very difficult jobs. I think the Stortinget should say that today. We also need to strengthen the job they are going to do, with enough employees and with skills. There is also a need to say that Nav has an important job here, which I understand is that Nav does not always do. Some families, who are struggling with difficult economics and major social problems, are not getting needed help from Nav. And I know that that kind of problem can lead to a kind of breakdown, a crossing of borders, and that one can't take care of their kids – not because one initially has some kind of tendency to use violence, but simply because life is a disaster, and one stands without help. I also know that a lot of people would be able to accept help from Nav – help that's hard to accept from child protection, because it's so stigmatizing. So there's a great need for reinforcement at Nav, so they do the important job they're set to do. Finally, about kindergarten: I very much agree with those who have said that kindergarten is incredibly important for both discovering and revealing and following up young people who have been subjected to violence. It's hard, I've been working there. It's maybe the only place the kid is safe, and in that moment you open your mouth, the kid's gone. That's probably one of the reasons why some of the employees in the kindergarten are hesitant to say so, because then the kids lose one security they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2152	The representative Ropstad has thanked the Committee several times today for the good work and thanked for the success of important Christian People's Party cases. I think we can essentially extend the gratitude to everyone who is involved in doing this job, because it is an incredibly important matter, it is an incredibly important focus – and it is cross-political. The fact that everyone in the room is concerned that we are going to secure children and young people from violence and abuse in the best possible way is an commitment, and this proposal is really an expression of part of that commitment. Therefore, I also think it is unnecessary to give the impression that this should be a kick to someone. At least I interpret the proposals of the Christian People's Party and the work done by the Committee – and I would not least like to thank the case rapporteur for a great effort to land this properly – as good constructive input to improve the situation in an area where we all want the situation to improve. These are proposals that embrace very wide, and that's very true in that situation as well. What is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice and Security here is only a small part of the comprehensive proposal that the Stortinget is dealing with today, and it is important that everyone is concerned about and involved in these issues, almost regardless of the line it takes. I think it is a strength for the Stortinget and for political Norway that we can unite in the fight and on the proposals for action in such an important area as this is. Then I want to say some concrete things related to the responsibility that lies below us. The representative Robstad was involved in this with the extent of violence and abuse. There are some statistics that now show that the number of cases of family abuse is very high, while in the case of ordinary abuse, that is, crimes against life, body and health, it goes down somewhat. These statistics are probably somewhat different, so what we all think is a positive development, that more people are willing to report, is not necessarily such a positive development as we would want it to be, because it is compensated by the fact that it is codified differently over time than it is now. Now we're getting better and better at this, but we've asked the Police Directorate to go through these numbers, see what's the status, what kind of knowledge we can actually gather to further improve measures and efforts, because that's one of the most important challenges we're facing. As Andersen also pointed out in relation to child protection, but which can also be transferred to the criminal law trail: the threshold for reporting is too high. This is still taboo in 2015, and it is a great burden for those in this, to take the step out. That's why it's also important that we bring together the broad effort, the broad focus to help provide support for and stand through these terrible and difficult, evil issues. It is – I would almost say – shocking cases of violence and abuse against children that are being documented to too much extent, that is. It is not that they are documented as being the problem, but it is that it happens. There are several who have said here that one does not see it until one believes it – I think it was Redd Barna who came with that slogan in his time. That's pretty significant, because some of this is so terrible that it's hard to understand. One of the things we have been concerned about from the point of view of the Ministry of Justice and Defence is to ensure that we now have a judicial hearing system that will no longer be a judicial hearing mechanism, but a hearing system for children and vulnerable persons, which is more effective and ensures the legal certainty of children in a better way. The size shall now be treated in a very short time. We see some effects of the work that is very positive. In 2014, 3 352 child trials were carried out at the state children’s home. In 2013, the corresponding figures were 2,662 – a large increase from 2013 to 2014. In 2015, the first tertiary has been an increase of 40 pst. in relation to the corresponding period from 2014. It's a very positive effect, but it also creates challenges, because it makes it demanding to keep the waiting time down. The efforts of the police and the criminal chain over time to bring down the waiting time have been absolutely crucial. Now that we're getting a lot of things, we're seeing that the waiting time is going up a little bit. I have discussed this with the police director twice in the recent past to ensure that the efforts to keep the waiting time down are further reinforced – and it is particularly important in the transition to a new system.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2165	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2168	As the Council of State said, capacity is challenging – to say it carefully – in children’s homes by day. The number of cases is increasing, and the Labour Party wants to express once again that we believe that the funds for the children's houses must be both strengthened and earmarked. After we've become a few in a deal about the police reform, we want the government to consider setting up a new children's home in police districts east. But to the promises: The committee received feedback from the children's home in Trondheim that they had experienced a cut of NOK 200,000 in 2015. Isn't there any evidence that it's necessary to ear tag the funds to the children's houses, as well as to strengthen them?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2176	As the representative Vågslid mentions, children’s homes have now been further strengthened in the revision. It's positive. There is a need to look at how that resource will be used in the future. If that increase continues, there is no doubt that the capacity of children's homes will be very much challenged. It is also addressed in the context of the treatment of the near-police reform in a very good way. As for the children's house cut in a single police district, I would like to generalise that answer a little bit: there is a clear expectation from me that each police district responsible for the children's houses will give them access to the resources necessary for the children's houses to solve the tasks they have been set to do. This is a type of crime that is very clearly political priority – I would almost say – from top to bottom engagement, and it's very clearly communicated. It is therefore important that all police officers ensure that children’s homes have access to the resources they have. Then I am also concerned that earring should not be a kind of resting pad. It is not necessarily the case that earmarking money ensures that resources are managed in a satisfactory and good manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2185	Thanks for the answer. I still wonder about one thing. It is always said that the children's houses are strong, and I recorded that there was a small increase in the revised national budget, but when a child's house reports that they had to cut NOK 200,000 in the current year, it is difficult to say that it is a strengthening. I know that it's not the government that has done it, it's what the Minister of Justice says, because of different priorities in the various police districts, and that's why we've thought – as the representative Karin Andersen also said in his post – that one needs to pay attention to the funds to direct them to where they are going. The red-green government did that when it comes to child protection, to get it up to the level it had to. Now we see that the increase in the number of cases in children's homes is so increasing that I'll again ask the council if he doesn't agree that one has to pay attention to the funds to direct them to where they're going.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2192	I am most concerned that the children's houses are given the opportunity to deliver the quality they are going to, within the time limits they are going to, and that responsibility is very clearly placed. I'm the one with the highest political responsibility, it's every policeman who's going to deliver it at babysitting level. So you could say that earmarking a specific pot for that work will take account of that perspective – perhaps. But it can also have the opposite effect, because then the police officer can say that now they have the earmarked funds – I see they need more, but they have after all got what the Storting said they should have, they get no more from the police chief. So it's not certain that earring is the optimal solution to this, but it can be an instrument that can be used, I don't reject it. The most important thing I think is to be quite clear in the expectation of what quality will be delivered, and that resources will follow the increase that we are now seeing, and that it is necessary, including from a political point of view, to assess what it means for the future level of funding to the police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2197	I would like to agree with the Council of State that it is definitely the most important thing that we get the results that we are asking for, and of course that the deadlines for, for example. when hearings are to be held. There's a good thing on Wednesday, which we're going to discuss, so we'll have time to discuss it further. As far as appropriations are concerned, we are also pleased with the increases we received in the current year, but, like the representative, we also have critical comments on what emerged in the hearing on how the money has been used. Through the work of the Committee, we see that some have gone to investments, which we in the Committee also asked for, but we will ask the Council of State to follow it further. Because with the huge increase in cases, it goes without saying that we need more money, and therefore the committee asks for it in the autumn budget. However, my question was really linked to the escalation plan: we underline the interdisciplinary nature of the matter, and the Minister of Justice is responsible for his field, and what we are concerned about is a clear anchoring, in the same way that the action plan was. Can the Council of State say a little about what he thinks about the work of including as many departments as possible in order to maximise the scope of the measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2206	No decision has now been taken on which department should be responsible for coordinating the follow-up to the escalation plan. Normally, it will be one of the departments with the heaviest portfolio within such an escalation plan, which will then be responsible for coordinating efforts between the different departments and coordinating the input into the budgetary process and further follow-up to a escalation plan. So it's going to be treated in the same way that I suppose was the case with the mental health escalation plan, which gave very good results, and which was very concrete. But it is also true that we have a good foundation to build on, as the representative is familiar with, with the existing action plans and action plans. So that's to systematize and make sure that this work is done in a good way, and that each state council follows up in its lines to make sure that this is followed up properly. When it comes to deadlines for kindergartens, etc., we'll come back to it later, but there's no doubt that the situation we're in is creating some challenges for the capacity of children's homes, and we have to follow it closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2215	I have previously, in similar debates, said that if this kind of crime that we are now talking about had happened on the open street, it would have been raging all over the country. And in a previous debate, I have also referred to my own municipal party, the Drammen Arbeiderparti, who has programmed that violence in close relations should become a permanent task for the municipal preparedness council, both part of the risk and vulnerability analysis for society as a whole and the ongoing coordination of actions. The Council of State has previously said that he felt it was a positive input, which he might well consider when it came to all the municipalities, and what I'm really wondering about is whether the Council of State has had time to start thinking about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2222	I'm glad to say that thoughtwork has begun. That's part of the job that we're going to do. Unfortunately, I cannot see when the thinking business will be finished, but that we have started this thinking, there is no doubt about it. What we have to think about, is what space of opportunity it gives, and what added value it gives, and the way to think about it is actually consistent with what we're doing in a lot of other areas, where you're going to gather resources on completely specific issues. I mean, the recording that came from Lise Christoffersen earlier is a very exciting recording, but I can't conclude right now. But I know that the representative Christoffersen is going to ask that question again if not so long, and then we will have even more to report!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2229	If we're going to get the children's houses to both have enough capacity and that they don't have enough waiting time, and that there's enough competence there, it needs to be dimensioned correctly, and it needs to calculate what it costs, and that's what the ministry needs to do. That means you have to know how much it costs to increase this. It is not that one should leave it up to every police district if they want to do this – they should do this! It is in this light that the debate on ringing should be seen, because it is not about police districts that this is necessarily a priority, but whether the government prioritises this enough and spends enough money on the table to enable it to be implemented, and that it is at the top of the priority list, that this is job no. 1 and that it is not possible to give priority to the police districts. Will the Council of State ensure that?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2236	Making sure that children's homes deliver properly is not a police electoral profession. It's going to be delivered in a real and good way, and I have confidence that the police officers are doing what is necessary to get it done. In addition, in my monthly follow-up meetings with the police director, I have this as a topic, among other things. Questioning time for children, which is to ensure that we are able to have the necessary focus on it. But then it's also challenging to give a very accurate analysis of what will be the resource needs of the children's homes in the future. The growth we have seen in the number of interrogations taken at children’s homes – from 2013 until the first quarter of 2015 – was difficult to predict initially. It's a desirable development, because it's an effect that more people actually use their children's homes, that more people report these kinds of cases. Then we have to bear in mind – in the future budgets – that this needs to be properly ensured, for quality must be good, and deadlines are not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2243	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2248	On 1 June 2015, the Labour Party leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, launched a ten-point plan against youth unemployment. The starting point for the plan is Nav's May 2015 unemployment rate, which shows that more than 23 000 young people between 19 and 29 years of age are registered unemployed. The availability among young people is ten times as high as for them over the age of 54, and was measured at 9.4 pst. first quarter of 2015. A high proportion of young people who turn to Nav have not completed secondary education. This applies, inter alia, to: three quarters of the 40,000 young people under 30 years of age with disabilities. The social distinction between those who have and those who have not completed secondary education is reinforced when unemployment increases. So what does a 10-point plan against youth unemployment have to do with today's case of violence against children? Yeah, look, no one knows. But we know something, as it says in the proposal for a representative. Childhood pressures have serious consequences for quality of life even in adulthood. One part of the picture is that violence against children harms memory and ability to learn, self-image and social function, which in turn can lead to social isolation and unemployment. We can probably also add disability at an early age, with complex diagnoses such as mental disorders, behavioural disorders, intoxication and diffuse muscle and skeletal disorders. In Document No: 15:554 for 2013–2014, the undersigned asked the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs what research can tell about the reason for the increase in the number and proportion of young people. The statistics then showed that 59 pst. have been diagnosed as mental and behavioural disorders by young people. Young people with disabilities account for a small proportion of those with disabilities, but there is cause for concern when numbers increase. In addition to registered young people, these 40 000 people are under 30 years of age with disabilities. My question to the Council last year was whether we know anything about the proportion of these young people who have been, or are, victims of violence in close relationships, care failure or other types of assault. The answer was that we don't know. There is no diagnosis category that identifies young people or others whose violence in close relationships, care failures and other abuses has led to later disability. We just know that they're somewhere behind the numbers, in the different diagnostic groups of mental and physical diseases and injuries, but we don't know who they are, or how many they are. The more important it is, both prevention, detection and early response to violence against children. School health services are an important lowthreshold service and need to have a greater role in this way. It is positive that an overall committee wants to strengthen this service, but I really wish that the majority could share the impatience of the Labour Party and the Center Party right at that point, especially on the basis of contributions from both the Christian People's Party and the Left here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2262	These decisions can help many children in Norway. I now want to talk about sensualism. The fight against violence against children cannot be won by police, courts and child protection alone. Punishment and care take-over are not always the best solution. Sometimes it can be a better result if the family can be helped together, as a family. When violence against children is discovered, the family must be offered immediate help. Parents may then be motivated to accept such treatment. Family protection must have capacity and competence in these situations. Without a professional offer, first-line detection will be pointless. Family protection needs earmarked jobs to meet the need. We don't need more investigations or more pilots. We now need permanent measures, a stepping-up plan for family protection, with earmarked posts for work against violence. The Stairs Plan adopted today must provide concrete capacity and competence. The psychological consequences of violence, both for children and adults, are great. On a national basis, the provision of treatment to victims and perpetrators of violence is too poor. To help the children, we need to help our parents. The violence must stop for repair processes to start. Violence, as several others have said here today, must not be allowed to follow the race, to hit the next generation. It's here Alternative to Violence comes into the picture, as an offer for sensualism. Alternatives to Violence can and will do an important job in the family violence field. Today’s decisions need to provide for further strengthening of existing ATV-driven offices and for the establishment of even more such offices. The Christian People's Party wants alternatives to violence in all regions to be given a clear family mandate, as has been done in Bergen and Stavanger. This involves the framework and resources to receive the entire family, not just the perpetrator. Alternatives to Violence shall continue to be a specialist cooperation partner for the other bodies. There may be a professional partner and supporter, a competence and speciality unit for clients can be referred to. Victims of violence and violence need accessible, comprehensive and specialised services that provide treatment over time. Research shows that successful measures are available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2275	I join in the praise of the representatives who have taken up this important proposal, and I think it is great that there has been an impact on a much-needed escalation plan. Violence against children is a bad and difficult theme, because violence often happens where you have to be safest: at home, at the place where you are happy – and by someone you are happy about. A lot has gotten better, we've had a lot of plans, and it's added up to a lot that's already done. That the number of reports of violence is increasing, I think it's because it's being talked more about that it's not accepted. There's probably been the same amount of -- or maybe even more -- of violence at home before, in the so-called old days. But then it was more a silent acceptance that you didn't talk about out there. The role of women in society has also contributed to violence being perpetrated within the home’s four walls, and fortunately, gender equality and attitude changes have made many women today have their own income and know that they can handle themselves, and it contributes to more people moving out when there is violence at home, and they can get help. We know about the damage to the long-term effects, and we know that a damaged child can become an adult who is struggling himself or who becomes a violent person himself. A change of attitude is needed, but more is required. Good, safe kindergartens are required with adults who see and know children, who have the skills to quickly detect and follow up on the use of violence. They need to have the skills to know what they're looking for and what they're asking for. That's why we've been focusing on that with the children's conversation. We need a child protection system that also has good competence, which introduces measures into families that are struggling, and prevents something from happening. Therefore, it is important to earmark funds for several posts, in addition to the 1000 that have already arrived. A school health and health care service that is at the forefront when it comes to contacting as many children as possible is important. Therefore, a minimum standard in the case of a mandatory minimum standard is important. Once the municipalities have a tighter framework with the blue-blue government, the job done outside is affected. We believe that a strengthened municipal budget will help the municipalities to do the job better. That's why it's right to earmark more to achieve what we want. In particular, it is important in the matters relating to children. The main message is that children should live their lives safely and without fear of violence. Also in this field, it's zero tolerance. That's why it's great with an escalating plan that follows up what's done before.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2292	I am pleased that a total increase is behind the proposal for an obliging escalation plan in the work against violence against children. This can be of great importance to many children in the coming years. The psychological consequences of violence are great for both children and adults. That is why it is so important for the Storting to state today that the offer of victims of violence, violent perpetrators and families living with violence should be strengthened and the capacity for this offer expanded. The suspension specified that the escalation plan should contain concrete measures and involve long-term plans for financial commitments over several years. This means earmarked means to strengthen all stages of the response chain, predictable financial framework conditions for all the agencies involved and fresh and targeted means of each action. Investment shall be made for a numerical amount and operating costs shall be increased to a certain level during the period. The fight against violence against children requires an overall commitment to permanent action and heavy, interdisciplinary efforts from the health, family and justice sectors, but also from the social, educational and community sectors. I would also like to stress the comments made by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights that co-located services in municipalities are positive. The house of the family provides good cooperation and accessible services for the whole population in several municipalities. I would finally say that a life of assault experience does not have to be a ruined life. It is possible to live a good life even for those who live with assault experiences. A good meeting with auxiliaries and the judiciary can help more people to experience it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2307	I am very pleased that we have this debate. Hardly anything can destroy a person more than when one is subjected to violence as a child. A good childhood lasts a lifetime, we say, but unfortunately it can also do a bad childhood. The wounds that are created do not disappear. Fortunately, there is less violence against children in Norway than in most countries in the world, because as a society we have zero tolerance. It's never acceptable to do violence, mental or physical, against children. But that there's less violence here than anywhere else, there's no comfort to the too many of them, children and young people who are afraid to come home to be met with violence from those who are closest to them. When a child is beaten, we as a society have failed. We have to do more to protect those who need it the most. Through this debate, many good measures have been mentioned – to prevent, detect and support. I want to use my post to talk about some of what I think is most important: a school health service that is present. School is our most important tool. There'll meet all the kids, there we can reach all of them. Around the schools, we have many capable health sisters – and health brothers. They do an important job every day. They're supposed to represent a safe place to get to. But the biggest problem is lack of time. If you've been exposed to something, someone needs to talk to you and decide to tell you the worst, you can't be met with a closed door – which is open the next week. It is serious that seven out of ten health sisters say that they have not asked questions they should have asked, but they do not, because they know that they do not have time to follow up the answer. We need a school health service that always has time to ask the necessary questions, and that always has time to follow up on what is needed. We need a power cap for the school health service. Priority must then be given to this – by politicians at local level and by the Stortinget. It doesn't help with nice words about how important school health services are if they don't follow up with money. That is why it was so sad that the Workers' Party's proposal to earmark funds was not supported. Bent Höie went out last year high and promised money, but it was not followed up with concrete money. If you promise money for the school health service, it must also be followed up concretely – not in words and wishes. The working party will continue to propose to grant money to several health sisters. That's a lot of reasons. They play an important role in many areas, not least in what we are discussing here today. Children and young people who are subjected to violence should always know that the school health service has an open door. Then it's our job to make sure that door is open.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2326	I would like to thank everyone who has taken part in the debate here today. It's been very interesting to witness the commitment that everyone shows to this important area. There have been many good recordings, and I expect the Minister of Justice to take along all the good recordings of the government. This is a very good decision we are making today. I want to link some comments to some of the recordings here, among others. what Andersen, the representative, points out that it is difficult to tell a kindergarten employee. That's just the kind of taboo we have to get away from. No matter where it is, whether it's in kindergarten, whether it's in school, or whether it's a neighbor, we have to get there that everyone takes it seriously and says from. Rather, we will see what we can put in support measures to help the people further – to help the child, but also the reporter in the system. So to another topic that is extremely important: child protection and the role of child protection in caring for our most vulnerable – our children. We must support that role and, as Mr Andersen said, we must call for it. Child protection is an important resource that we rely on to have in our society today. I'm so glad we have them. I know that there are some people who believe that they are involved in the violation and intervention of privacy, but that intervention is what I accept as a child protection representative – that they should do. I am very pleased with the cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party. In the revised budget, there was a strengthening of funds for children’s homes. I feel quite confident that this government will be following up on the needs that will come forward in the case of children's homes, but no matter what kind of action it is about, we will ensure that our children are cared for in the best possible way – we will ensure that they have a good childhood and a good youth and can thus become good citizens together with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2337	I want to join in the praise of the Christian People's Party, which has promoted this proposal, but I also want to pay tribute to the Justice Committee, which, in sum, I think, stands together a lot, and of course to the majority parties, who grant some money along the way here. I want to start a hundred years ago. I think it is timely today to bring up the Castberg children's elves, who were born a hundred years ago this year. They were about ensuring the child's growth relationship by having the right to two parents and two dependants. We've come a lot further in a hundred years, but today's debate shows that we're far from on target. We are currently also dealing with something similar in the Health and Care Committee, including: a public health report. It's a lot about structures, it's about capacity. And as the representative of the Christian People's Party, Thürmer, was inside: it's about securing the capacity of the basic primary care, whether it's the school health service, child protection or family protection. We need to strengthen our capacity. We've granted ourselves adults one settling each. We should start talking about that every child should have a health sister. That is the committee here, among other things. states jointly that a binding minimum standard for the provision of school health is now to be established. There is something in the Public Health Communication which the Health and Care Committee agrees to do. Then I want to beat a blow for the children themselves, like a voice in this debate. It has not been mentioned in particular. I myself have been involved in funding research related to children as relatives, where the research media takes the form of films from the University of Lillehammer and Filmmaking, among others – BAR has been involved in the development of it – where children and young people are used as voices. You use languages, movies and games to give children a language to talk about difficulties. The government and the majority parties, on the initiative of the Left, have also granted funds to the Psychiatric Health Professionals and the Children's Protection Professionals. It also helps bring out children's experiences to us adults in their format. I think that makes sense, and we have to keep giving children the opportunity to do that. We all remember when the grandmother of Christoffer asked if he was having trouble, and he said, "I think you understand that." Here we also have to bring the children. There are some technical details we need to take care of. This applies, inter alia, to: the tariffs for medical examinations. We're talking about the Children's Houses, but they too have to get their reason. We have also given referral rights to dentists and psychologists — including a small but very important measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2352	This is a matter of Christian People's Party having a burning commitment to. Health centre, school health service and kindergarten can help children out of violence. In order to be such a resource, capacity and competence need to be increased and developed. A binding minimum standard of school health can be such an instrument as the representative Kenseth mentioned instead. Health nurse and health centre reach almost all children and very many parents. The meetings are regular and have legitimacy. The competence of the health care provider, but also that of the health centre doctor, is a resource in addition to these individual health checks. They should be used as a resource for kindergarten staff and school teachers. The action plan to prevent violence against children points to integrated and coordinated services, increased competence and early intervention. In this context, the competence of the health centre can contribute in several ways. So to say all children, at least 90 pst., between one and five years goes into kindergarten. Everybody goes to school. Many municipalities have co-located maternity care, health and the open nursery with child protection and PP services — often, and very much, within the framework of a family home. However, all other kindergartens should also have regular professional contact with health care providers and other health care professionals. I think the health sister should be out in kindergarten in a fixed, agreed pattern. Competence can then be shared and risk children discussed. Early intervention and professional advice can be an offer for the best for the child. Without a professional offer, first-line detection would be pointless. Health nurses, health nurses and teachers have different competences and see parents and children in different contexts. But their overall insights give unique opportunities to help children in difficult situations. Therefore, the outlying role of the health sister can be strengthened and formalised. Kindergarten and school should give priority to such contact between educational staff and health care sisters and create arenas, so that children and families can be helped early. Different municipalities can certainly choose different solutions for this contact, but funding and targets in the escalation plan should support under such actions. Violence against children must now be prevented by a commitment. The important thing is long-term development, integrated and coordinated services and early action. New collaboration areas between health centre, kindergarten and school can be developed and stepped up. The plan Stortinget adopts today, can help many children out of violence in close relations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2365	SV will also vote in favour of the proposals of the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party. I think I forgot to say it instead. Then the representative Kjeseth said about the same thing as I said, that the children must be heard. This must apply, for example. The Change Factory, which was mentioned, but also the National Association for Children's Protection. It's important to listen to them. It is also important to say when the Minister of Justice sits here, that this is also about the police, that they must give priority to it and take it seriously, because there are ugly cases. The last one is the Monika case in Bergen, where it has gone all the way. You fail children who have been killed, most seriously. That's not the way to keep going. I think it was a misunderstanding when the case rapporteur, Ebbesen, said that I think it is very difficult for kindergarten workers to report, and that therefore you have to break a taboo. That's not what this is about. It's about there having to be an auxiliaries there to help the family and the kids at the moment you're saying, because unless any of these families pack the bag and go to the next municipality. Then the kid is out of the only situation during the day when you know that the kid is not being subjected to violence. That's what employees are facing, and that means that the apparatus to help these families has to be there. That's why we have to earmark the money, both for child protection and for the school health service, because the school health service has to be there. We know that it won't be prioritised if we don't label it. It's about for those who report, not least for the children, it has to be safe that at the moment you open your mouth and say the terrible thing, something has to happen. If it's not even more scary to do it, and that means that many people don't say anything. Finally, there is a debate about young people who are leaving both work and school, and the representative Christoffersen was in on it. I really want top politicians in particular to be careful to convict young people who are struggling. Then we seem to have forgotten the debate on bullying. Then we have forgotten the debate on violence against young people. Then we have forgotten the debate about all the problems that some kids can have, and then you talk about hurting at will and getting up about tomorrow and knocking on the table and fixing up. Many of these young people think I'm afraid, insecure, have not experienced love, have no faith in themselves. They need something quite different than that the most successful in society comes with lightweight solutions, to say it like that. This is serious, as many have said, because experiencing violence harms the brain. Being a witness to violence hurts the brain. We adults have to make sure that those who say about this get help and don't have to wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2378	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2392	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2399	The Central Party proposes through this Document 8 proposal to ask the Government to file a case on the amendment of the Criminal Code § 216, so that the abduction of minors who are subject to emergency decisions under the Children's Protection Act § 4-6, second paragraph, is punishable. Today, Section 216 of the Criminal Code makes it a criminal offence to abduct minors from someone who has parental responsibility or who has cared for under the Child Protection Act. The appeals of the Supreme Court found that an emergency decision under § 4-6 second paragraph of the Children's Protection Act did not mean that the care of a child was transferred to the Child Protection Act in a way covered by § 216. With this in mind, the Committee notes that the decision shows that the interpretation of criminal law by the Supreme Court is based on their understanding of the use of child protection offences. A collective committee believes this is unfortunate from a criminal point of view. The proposers believe that minors who are subject to emergency child protection decisions provide these children with poorer criminal protection than other children. The Committee believes that this gives cause for concern, and I note that the Minister of Justice also expresses the same concern in letters to the Committee on 10 April this year. The Labour Party agrees with the proposers that these young people have a lower level of criminal protection. The Stoltenberg II government set up a working group in the autumn of 2012 to review the legislation on child-removal and management of international child-removal cases. In December 2013, this working group proposed to extend criminal liability for child Abduction to all cases where, under Norwegian law, it is prohibited to take a child out of the country without the consent of child protection. The Council of State has expressed by letters of reply to the Committee that the Government wishes to postpone the proceedings for the follow-up of the distribution from the working group which the Ministry is currently working on to the Stortinget. The Labour Party and the Centre Party want to deal with this matter now. The Labour Party and the Center Party believe that there is a great need for a rapid legislative change. There are still new issues where biological parents abduct own children when they are deprived of care by emergency child protection decisions. At this stage, the young are extremely vulnerable, and we think that a prohibition of law could have a preventive effect. On this basis, the Labour Party and the Centre believe that there is a need for the Storting to give the government the task of bringing forward a case for the Storing that takes up the intentions of the proposal. A change in the law is necessary to provide adequate legal certainty for young people. In conclusion, I would like to stress that Section 216 of the 2005 Criminal Code does not adequately address the intentions of the proposal, and I believe that there is also a need for a change in the new criminal law. I take up the proposal from the Labour Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2418	The representative of Lene Vågslid has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2421	I would first like to thank the proposers for the draft representative, who address important issues relating to the legal certainty of children. We are responsible for facilitating the growth of children and young people, and not least for ensuring their legal security. The proposal of the Central Party and the Workers' Party is based on a judgment of the Supreme Court of 2013 that concluded that children who are placed acutely under child protection do not have the same criminal protection under the criminal law of § 216 as other children have. The Criminal Code § 216 makes it punishable to abduct minors from someone who has parental responsibility or who has custody under the Child Protection Act. The Supreme Court thus found that care for children who had received an emergency decision was not transferred to child protection and was therefore not subject to criminal protection under the criminal law. Consequently, children placed on emergency decisions do not have the same protection as other children. This is worrying. I am pleased that a joint judicial committee has pointed this out. A working group that was set up in autumn 2012 was commissioned to review our legislation related to child Abduction and the handling of international child abduction cases in Norway. The working group was then extended its mandate to look at the criminal liability for child abduction to include ‘...all cases where under Norwegian law there is a ban on taking a child out of the country without the consent of child protection’. The committee presented its suspension in 2014, where they recommended that all cases where under Norwegian law there is a ban on taking a child out of the country without the consent of the child protection system be criminalised. It is essential that this matter be dealt with in depth. The Christian People's Party supports the work group's recommendation and believes that a law ban will have a preventative effect, which many people have had today. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the legislative changes will take place as soon as possible in the interests of the vulnerable children. I am therefore very pleased that the Council of State has promised to come back to Stortinget with a proposal, and that – as it seems – we will have the matter dealt with already in the autumn. In this way, we will have a thorough examination of the issues and can thus ensure the legal certainty of vulnerable children. Therefore, the Christian People's Party does not see any reason to vote in favour of the proposal, but we look forward to the consideration of the proposition that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2434	Under current criminal law paragraph 216, it is punishable to abduct minors from someone who has parental responsibility or who has custody of child protection laws. The current right is that a person uses the definition in the Child Welfare Act of what's going on under the care of someone. At regular intervals, we're talking about issues where biological parents abduct their own children who are subject to emergency child protection decisions. So children who are in a very vulnerable situation are victims of what, in general terms, is a criminal offence. So we know that the legal situation is that children who are subject to emergency decisions, i.e. that care is not permanently drawn from biological parents, is not to be seen as being under the care of another. In practice, this means that those who do this cannot be punished under Section 216 of the Criminal Code. The people involved in these kinds of cases have often been through a very demanding time. The tension between parents and child protection is often strenuous, while child protection has assessed that these people are not fit to care. Children often have close ties with their biological parents, which can make this difficult. These moments in themselves imply that children are exposed to danger and traumatic actions by having biological parents abduct them. One of the most important tasks we have as politicians is to take care of those who are in a vulnerable situation and who are minors. Then we have to have a code that makes this possible. In a letter to the Justice Committee from the Council of State, he refers to international child abductions, but I find reason to remember that it also happens within our own borders, and that copies of it are many. An external working group delivered a report to the Ministry of Justice and Security in January 2014 proposing measures in the field of child Abduction. The report sheds light on important problem settings. The proposer would point to the importance that this group of minors subject to emergency child protection decisions enjoys criminal protection both nationally and internationally. As legislators, we also need to consider what preventive action is being taken. I believe that if a law prohibits this type of action, it may raise the threshold for anyone to choose to perform these actions. For the Central Party, it is important to give the government a clear marshall in this matter. We can't wait too long for time-consuming calculations, because here the legal state is clarified. I am therefore pleased that the Labour Party and the Central Party today are giving clear orders to the government that the new criminal law should be amended in line with the intentions of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2451	SV will vote in favour of the proposal from the Workers' Party and the Centre because it is in principle not clear that there is different legal protection for children in different situations. Here there has been a working group that has made this recommendation, so I feel reasonably confident that this is within what is thoroughly investigated. I'm a little bit more unsure whether this raises the threshold or seems preventative. I think we're forgetting a little bit that in these situations there are a lot of people who are completely desperate. Some people lack complete self-esteem, of course, in what they are doing, but I also think we forget that parents who may not be able to care for their children are desperately happy in their children, as others are, and that sometimes, despite the fact that it is punishable – they know that this is wrong – they do it anyway. So I'm probably a little bit more insecure than what it sounds like the majority here is, that this will be something that prevents this from happening. I nevertheless believe that it is right, but I think it should be said in these cases that children who experience care failure are often happy with their parents and concerned about how they are doing, and that parents who fail their children – sometimes at the most – are very happy with their children, sail if they fail them. It sometimes leads to very desperate actions from both parties, and a change in the law will not necessarily prevent these frail cases from happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2458	This is a matter of which there is no disagreement, although the debate so far has really been marked by the fact that there is a difference. The Labour Party and the Center Party believe that their proposals will result in the treatment of something that you do not do if you follow the majority’s position. I feel it is wrong. The proposal from the Workers' Party and the Center Party is that the Stortinget should return to the government with a proposal that follows. It is also the conclusion of the majority by attaching the proposal protocol, because they are aware that the government will come back to the Storting with a proposition on this in a very short time. So the reality of the proposal from the Labour Party and the Central Party and the position of the majority is exactly the same. I'm really very happy about that, because it's important that we get cleaned up in this relationship, and it's clear that there's a clear number of large sizes in order for it to be done as quickly as possible. We have come very far in the process and are completely on the rise side. But I also think it's worth noting the post that the representative Karin Andersen had at the end here, because there are nuances in these kinds of issues as well. These are demanding issues such as these. But Storting's order is clearly perceived, and the government is going to deliver on it in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2470	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2485	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2499	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2513	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2527	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2541	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2547	Then it seems that we are ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2559	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's the proposals No 1-8, by Kari Henriksen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party, on proposals Nos. 9 and 10, by Kari Henriksen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 11, by Geir Inge Lien, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on proposal No. 12, from Iselin Nybø on behalf of Left There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that no Norwegian citizen is forced to settle abroad in connection with the rental of accommodation in the Netherlands.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2591	There is a vote on proposal No. 11th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In a transitional period, the government is asked to increase the use of advanced release in cases where appropriate’. The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2608	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government, instead of renting prisons in the Netherlands, to bet on new settlement sites in Norway quickly, by launching the construction of new prisons in Agder in 2015 and designing prisons to facilitate women prisoners to increase the penal zoning scheme to increase the judicial programme for drug convictions to increase the electronic control system rapidly alerting the retention of detention places in existing prisons where possible’ Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have warned of support for the proposal. [[EC]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2641	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an experiential summary of the settlement challenges associated with the arrest of prisoners for ideological terrorism and to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner with the results of the review.’ The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2658	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to promote the use of modular prisons in relevant areas in Norway.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2675	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 6 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to start building new prisons in Agder in 2015 and to design prisons to facilitate women’s prisons.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to increase the number of prison sites in Norway, not to rent places abroad.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2699	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 5 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to raise a case for increased use of compensation with electronic control.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote its own case for the Storting on future organisational structure in criminal matters.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2723	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3, 7 and 8, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner in the manner in which it has followed up the decision at Innst. 165 L [[2013-2014]] Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote a plan on how to build more open settlements in relation to already established prisons.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is calling for action on the content of criminal services, which emphasises the following elements in line with the content of Document 8:86 S Increase in the length of training of prison officers and better opportunities for continuing training. [[(2014-2015):]] Increased use of alternative forms of punishment. Wider rehabilitation and previous monitoring of convicted offenders. Increased health services and medical treatment in prisons. the involvement of voluntary organisations before, during and after settlement; The role and activity of religious communities. Management and governance with emphasis on quality and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2764	President! SV also supports the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2769	It is then that the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2809	It's written first over IV. The Labour Party and the Central Party have announced that they will vote against, while the Socialist Left Party here has announced that they will now vote in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2824	I, II and III shall then be voted on;
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2834	It's going to be over V.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2905	The President dares to draw attention to the fact that this is a sharp hooting. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2920	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2934	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. Then we go to voting on case No. 5 which was dealt with before case No. 4 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e2951	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against, and that is again a sharp vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e3023	The Central Party, the Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e3040	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 2, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The President noted that the proposal had been amended during the debate and now reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to start work with a view to amending the criminal law on electronic control by a refusal of contact to apply also in the event of a visit ban.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Environment Party The Greens indicate that they will support the proposal. The voting boards showed that 57 votes were cast against and 43 against the proposal. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 17-18.47]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e3063	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e3068	That means that 58 votes against and 42 votes in favour of the proposal. The proposal is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e3071	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to report adequately to the Storting on the implementation of the reverse violent alarms in the police districts.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e3105	The Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they are voting in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e3260	The Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Environmental Party The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e3273	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e3296	The Left and the Left have announced that they are voting against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e3316	The left has notified that they are voting against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e3356	The Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e3388	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-4, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider introducing a mandatory minimum standard in the school health service.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the police comply at all times with the deadline for hearings provided for in the regulation.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of children’s homes as centres of expertise focusing on the coordination of treatment and follow-up activities.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the need for health professionals with clinical forensic competence at children’s homes, and then to ensure that children’s homes have the necessary access to this competence.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e3492	During the debate, Mr Vågslid has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to bring an action to amend the Criminal Code § 216, and a corresponding amendment to the Criminal Code of 2005, so that the abduction of minors subject to emergency decisions in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 4-6 of the Children’s Protection Act becomes punishable.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e3527	Case No. 11–15 is the second time dealing with legal acts and concerns Law No. 74 up to and including Law No. Seventy-eight. There are no proposals for comment, and Bill No. 74 up to and including Law No. 78 is thus approved for second time treatment and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e3532	President! Can you repeat the votering basis in case No. 5?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e3537	The President proposes that we first take the record, while the secretary brings up case number. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e3553	We'll find out case number. 5th@item: inlistbox There it is that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party announced that they would vote against. It was a sharp vote, in which the Christian People's Party and the two government parties were to vote in favour. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e3556	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-08.ana.ud2679e3561	That's also how the vote ended, if the president remembers correctly. The map of the day is then finished. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
