ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e153	The representatives of the Board of Vegar Solhjell, Eirik Sivertsen, Ola Elvestuen and Eirin Sund, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. From the meeting of the alternate of the counties of More and Romsdal, Tove-Lise Torve, there is an application for a waiver from the Grand Duchy from 14 December to 18 December under the leave of the representative Else-May Botten, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the More and Romesdal counties, Eva Vinje Aurdal, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e188	Eva Vinje Aurdal is present and will take the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the Welfare Permit of the Representative Irene Johansen from 14 December to 18 December from the Central Party Group on the Permit of the Representative for Liv Signe Navarsete from 14 December to 18 December. 16 to 18 December to take part in the Norwegian delegation to the 10th Ministerial Conference of the WTO in Nairobi of the Workers' Party on the Permit of the Representative Eirik Sivertsen on Days 16 and 17 December to attend the Arctic Parliamentary Committee in Strasbourg These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Eastfold County, Wenche Olsen, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in the Stortinge from 15 December until 17 December under the leave of the representative Irene Johansen, for reasons of well-being. From the first alternate of the Sogn and Fjordane counties, Jenny Følling, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget on Friday 18 December under the permission of the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the county of Nordland: Tone-Helen Toften from 16 to 17 December For the counties of Sogn and Fjordane: Jenny Følling from 14 December at 2.30 p.m. 16:00 to 17 December and Sigurd Erlend Reksnes 18 December For Eastfold counties: Wenche Olsen 14 and 18 December and Fredrik Björnebeck 15 to 17 December.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e253	Wenche Olsen is present and will take the seat. The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e258	I would like to make proposals on behalf of myself and the Greens on the plan for national action to achieve the 1.5 degree heating target.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e263	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that today's Storting meeting be suspended at 0 p.m. 13.45 for The Storting's Christmas ounce. Furthermore, the President will propose that the meeting be resumed at 9 p.m. 16 and continues until the current map has been processed. – No objection has been raised, and it is therefore deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e279	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: the Working Party 30 minutes, the Right 30 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 10 minutes, the Left 10 minutes, the Socialist Left 10 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to three lines be given with replies from the main figures of the parties and five lines with replies from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e288	The 2016 Health Budget shows, like the health budgets of former Right-wing Party governments, that health is a field of activity for these two parties. We promised our voters greater diversity, higher quality and shorter waiting times. We'll deliver on that. We have taken a number of measures, changed laws, strengthened rights, included users and relatives in the processes, and allocated increased funds to achieve our goals. A review of the Party's Party's programme in health shows that we can still pick points that have been delivered. The health budget is on the other side of 179 billion. kr. That's the whole 24 pst. higher than the red-green last budget adopted. This gives room to cut waiting times even more. It provides space for further reinforcements within several areas, as well as new bets. We often talk about the large numbers and the general headings when we talk about the budget, but for individuals it is often about the small things. If we are to be able to create the patient's health care, the small things must also be in place. I will therefore reflect a little over the smaller, but nevertheless so important, aspects of the budget. The government has issued a pilot scheme providing state funding for the health and care services in the municipalities, where there is a need to govern, and not the priorities of the individual local authority. After the deadline, there are now 24 applications for 20 places. I see it as very positive that more than 400 municipalities consider the government's municipal transfers to be so good that they believe that they themselves can provide good enough services to their citizens without additional funds from the state. It promises well for the health and care sector across the whole country. I still think that those who live in a municipality that is going to participate in the project are lucky, because they have local politicians with very high ambitions for their inhabitants. After the count-up of the Stoltenberg government's bet in hospital places showed 567 new places, there is now a cross-political agreement that one did not succeed, and that it is imperative to get the building pace up. It is therefore uplifting to read the following from the House Bank's websites: ‘The Government reinforced the scheme of increased grant rates from 2014 onwards, so that the grant now covers 55 per cent of approved installation costs for hospitalisation facilities and 45 per cent of approved construction costs for nursing homes.’;» The demand for the investment grant has increased considerably since then. Also a strengthening of health centres and school health services has been a long-standing discussion in this house. After a decline of nine years in health station services from 2012 to 2013, the government’s clear budget commitment has shown a joyful change in pace. That is why we are further increasing this effort in this budget. The grant scheme we introduced to raise the number of municipal psychologists also shows good results. We see that the recruitment has provided more low-threshold services, better prevention services and more cooperation with other municipal and specialist health services. For 2016, 45 million will be granted. NOK in a grant scheme to help municipalities comply with the announced legislation. The government promoted a escalating plan for the drug field in the fall. Although this will not be dealt with until next year, we will not wait to increase the effort. The specialised drug treatment itself is already well in place. More and more treatment options are being treated, and the drug addict has given more influence on the way out, and waiting time has fallen considerably. That's what's going on in the municipalities, which is now to be strengthened. This budget strengthens the field by nearly 0.5 billion. kr. I would like to mention in particular grants to several reception and follow-up centres, several low-threshold services, the permanent establishment and extension of drug programmes with judicial control, as well as grants for work training, activation and happy care. The government has also promoted a new public health report this year, for the previous lack of two important themes: mental health and active ageing. This pointed out that loneliness is a major threat to good health. We have therefore now put the fight against loneliness on the political agenda. It is granted 36.8 million. kr to this field. Together with the voluntary sector and municipalities, we will promote health by stimulating social communities, meeting places and participation. Funds shall be allocated, inter alia, to: Norwegian Tourist Association, Red Cross, Senior Dance, Activity seniors and older people and to non-governmental organisations that facilitate visiting and activity friends in the care of the elderly. Another important investment is the commitment to women's health. Finally, there will be a HPV Vaccine Recovery Program. The recommendation for a procurement programme was already given in 2009, but this government has thus been able to find room for a necessary 72 million. NOK to this. This vaccine we know saves many women from developing cancer. In this context, there is also reason to mention the packaging processes for cancer treatment. The entire 28 cancer diagnoses now have their own package sequence. Experience is good, with preliminary figures showing very good results and good feedback from patients, health professionals and the Cancer Association. The government is also starting work on establishing proton treatment in Norway. Therefore, the means to proceed with conceptual phase planning are provided for, so that final choice of concept and phase-in can be decided. It is also granted 10 million. to strengthen the work of methodological assessment in the national system for the introduction of new technologies in the specialist health service. The aim is to ensure that patients have quick access to new and documented effective methods that we want to use. Then we need a better national system to approve the use of new treatment services. This has been a hunch for me for years, as both I and the patients have thought that the system we have today is taking too much time. The golden rule is continued. In previous years, the supply of drugs and mental health decreased. This decline has stopped, and we are now experiencing an increase in line with the requirement. A decrease in waiting time indicates that this has been correct and necessary. As an opposition politician, I proposed to instruct the RHFs to have access to psychiatrybulence, but was downgraded. The right-wing Party government introduced this requirement, and I am naturally pleased that the commitment to this is being continued, both as a requirement and by means. It is also gratifying that this now has the support of all parties. For us, it has been an overall goal to establish projects with a decent and professionally good prehospital service. It is provided that healthcare companies cooperate with the police in order to clarify the scope of police missions. The RHFs have chosen slightly different models, but all are perceived to be in line with the intention. In line with the policies of the Progress Party and the government platform on keeping the excess interests down, the proportion of those with high disease costs is not increased. They're actually getting a real drop in expenditure. Those who initially have such small expenses that they do not reach the ceiling for a free card will notice some increase in excess. Physical activity in school has been discussed back and forth for many years. In this budget there is such an appropriation. The aim of the funding is to learn how it is best to increase the use of physical activity through the school day. This gives a greater boost to school activity than the red-greens ever managed to deliver. We're dealing with a budget of nearly 180 billion. kr. All in all, there is a good budget, which has been well received. However, one item has received a lot of attention, and it concerns the entry on medical consumables. This entry is now approximately 2 billion. NOK, which is a significant amount. Therefore, HELFO has been entrusted with the task of reviewing the main product areas of medical consumables and making proposals for changes. There will still be many products on the product and price lists for incontinence and stoma that perform such treatment, but I have no problem understanding that those who use any of these products are now both angry and scared. Cutting things people are used to getting, always creating reactions. However, I am very concerned to see how this works, as there is little agreement between the information I get from those who handle this scheme and those who use it. I have also received a recognition from several teams that there is over-consumption and misuse of these products, and that this should be taken into account. I take these recordings with me and wait for feedback when the new scheme has worked for a while. Presenting a health budget that satisfies absolutely everyone, I realize is impossible, but we almost succeeded.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e323	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e326	The government parties often agree that we need to strengthen efforts towards the chroniclers, but one of the most mentioned cuts in next year's government budget, as the representative also mentioned in his statement, is the total reduction of 65 million. kr for medical consumables, a cut that directly affects chroniclers, inter alia. Stomic surgery and people with incontinence. The explanation for the government parties on this is confusing, among other things. It is said that the patient organisations have been involved and decided to act as specialist counsel for HELFO. My question to the chairman of the committee is as follows: If the patient organisations have joined this cut, why are the protests from the same patients so massive, and why are the HELFO's technical advice on this issue excluding publicity?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e333	I believe that there has been a great deal of transparency about what is in the decision. In part, this is about price, which will not affect patients. Part of this is about switching products, so that patients can still use products. The last point refers to the fact that it is not within the regulation of the bladder prescription system. It's because there's been some confusion about what's actually going to be gone, what's going to be left, and how the results will be, I've said that I want to follow this case further after the change has come into force. It's common for you to become anxious when things change. There are patient organisations in these councils, but patients do not always agree with all the organisations in what they advise.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e338	I want to follow up where the previous representative left off. The representative, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, says it's common to get anxious when something is cut, but it's also common to know what a cut is before a cut in a government budget. Here, there are a lot of millions who are cut into a blue-receptive system, where it has been found that the assessments from behind from HELFO's side are not public. Is it the case that the representative of Kjønaas Kjos is satisfied that there is a cut in the state budget without a doubt, and is it the case that the representative of Kjønaas Kjos does not believe in the patient organisations, which are very desperate, and which are actually users of this offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e343	Once again, it is not consistent with the information in the case. I have received quite good information, and I believe that there has been transparency about it – there have been questions sent to the Minister of Health, who has now responded to what this is like – and what the individual patient says. If we were to base what patients say, that this would give an increase of NOK 20,000 a year for them, it's not consistent with the numbers that the scheme shows. That's why I can't say anything but that I think we have to see how this works, when it's out in life, because only then do we know what the consequences are. There are still many products that are important for this patient group, which they can still obtain in a very general way, and their health must be very well cared for when the change is being made.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e348	I'm also busy with the cuts that hit the stomi surgery. The representative, Kjenaas Kjos, says she's very busy seeing how this works, but the normal thing is that we know how it goes before we cut millions into the arrangements of a patient group. SV has asked the Ministry to obtain an overview of estimated losses for individuals. We did not get that answer within the deadline of Friday, so Stortinget knows too little about how much individual patients can lose when a decision is taken on this budget. Then I find it irresponsible to adopt it. We were in contact with an unearned minimum pensioner, who says he gets a cost of NOK 12 000 per year just to cover the poseodorant. My question to the representative is simple: Is it not irresponsible to implement a cut when it is quite obvious that the government parties do not have an overview of the consequences of the cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e355	I'm actually a little confused about that question from SV, which in its remarks in the budget indicates that a cut of 32,600 kroner for someone who is on double room in a nursing home against his will is small money. Then it becomes a little strange that the amount that is well below NOK 32 000 for other patient groups is a big problem. But once again, $12,000 is not in line with what the calculations show when it comes to counting these deodorants, and that's why I'm saying, I think we have to see how this works, for those who have calculated this, say something quite different than some single patient tells us. It's a little difficult to make decisions in Stortinget based on single patients, but I say I'm open to see how this turns out. And then SV, who removed tax deductions for particularly large expenses for those who have large costs of sickness, knows that all changes always go wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e360	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e364	For the last round, others from the Workers' Party will present our views on it, but I think we just have to take over that when you go to the step not to cut 5 million. kr, not 10 mill. kr, but several tens of millions of dollars in the first place, and then to reinforce a cut later in an intensive budget debate here in Stortinget – which is very unusual, at least for the last eight to ten years – will have consequences. I am not able today to say to what extent and what consequences it will have, but it is unfortunate that the Storting does not have that information on the table before making those decisions. We are financing and reversing far along the way that is cut in our alternative arrangement, but that will be explained by others from the Workers' Party later today. I would first like to say that there is very much good in the health budget Stortinget will adopt later this evening. Fortunately, it is in Norway that we agree very much across the party boundaries and the government constellations. At the same time, when we are in the unique economic situation that we both have economic growth, which contributes to our public budgets, and have an oil fund where we can extract some of the returns for good purposes in Norway, then the budgets are growing and getting better from year to year. And so does next year. I think we should have bigger ambitions than just going better from year to year. It is therefore necessary to measure the policy of a government in different fields, including health, in accordance with the following assumptions: one must measure on what was promised before the elections two years ago. You have to measure how much money you're willing to spend in the economy, and this government has put Norway's record in oil money. I believe that in light of this, the health part of the budget is not strong enough. There are other bets that take precedence when the government is going to make budgetary arrangements. That is why the Labour Party is going to present a number of proposals today, and we have put forward comprehensive proposals for improving the health budget in our alternative budget. It's probably not going to be passed. However, I will explain some of those efforts. For us, it is important that we base our health policy on the fact that what promotes health in Norway is primarily done outside hospitals and outside institutions, outside the healthcare system. That's how society is organized through fair distribution, through an inclusive society where everyone is seen, involved, included and has a meaningful everyday life, that health is primarily created. In our alternative budget, there are many things that contribute to it, but in the health field, I want to bring forward some preventive elements we are proud of, and I think we need to be strengthened. We've been trying for years to get a stronger response to school health. We've had a lot of discussions about that in Stortinget, and it's helped us to come to the realization that it needs to be earmarked to contribute to a real rise here. That is exactly why we are proposing it. We believe it is important that more children and young people maintain the joy of moving and being active longer than you can do today. Today there is almost a bomb to stop organized sports when you get up in high school and youth, and many sit down on their butts. Therefore, we believe that more children, in this context young people, should be offered physical activity every day at school. That's why we're proposing to reintroduce it. We also propose that we reintroduce the school fruit. There is more and more extensive evidence and research that children and young people who learn to eat healthy and varied early get better health when they grow up. Of course, here we are parents most important, but the school can also contribute. That is why we propose it. At all, we have a very comprehensive commitment to our alternative budget on prevention, on low-threshold services for children and young people's mental and physical health, which is one of three main initiatives. The second main initiative is not so much visible in the Ministry of Health’s budget area. The care services in the municipalities, with particular emphasis on the care of the elderly, are made visible primarily in the Ministry's budget area. We are concerned that as the elderly in the future grow and live longer, they need more services and more complex services than today. The same is true of the elderly, and we believe that the provision of health and care for the future must deal with what is needed, how we can facilitate the use of resources by individuals at different stages of old age to a greater extent than at present. We have had many thought businesses and many projects going on in the Workers' Party after we lost the election in 2013. One of the things we've recognised is that the measures and the means we had to expand care for the elderly to a large extent were not sufficient. They were not bad, it was not quite black and nothing happened. Rather the opposite: Many more – tens of thousands – competent employees who contribute to the care of the elderly were employed during our reign. There were also, although the opposition then refused to realize it, very many exclusive buildings were built, other institutional spaces were rebuilt from double rooms, and some were refurbished. But that wasn't enough. We've also recognized the following: just talking about building spaces is not very modern and forward-looking. It's important, it has to, but we think that the pressure even more than today needs to be put on more service innovation, working with the employees to help develop the services where people live most of their lives, namely at home. It shall not be the case that employees are required to run faster and faster, but that the development through the use of new technologies and ways of organizing things can help employees to do what they are best at and that technologies and tools can help to take over certain tasks and help. That is why we believe that our municipal economy, which is far more offensive than the government has been able to propose, is more than 3.5 billion. kr over, will obviously contribute to the following: that we can employ more people with the right skills and enough time. Employees themselves will not meet the needs of the future. To this is the challenge too big, we need more action. It's quite obvious that it's not enough to imagine that you can go into the future with the changed demographic development we have, without hiring more. We are proposing a new grant scheme to speed up the development and implementation of welfare technologies on a much larger scale than today. It goes beyond the budget of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. We suggest expanding dementia care. There are many who agree, but we suggest that an obliging escalation plan be established for dementia care, which contributes to the achievement of the objectives we have already adopted here in Stortinget. We propose to bet on the cultural walking stick and increased generational perspectives in volunteering. All in all, a far more offensive effort than the government parties have, and will certainly be, adopted on the care and care side of the budget. When you get seriously ill, we believe that the best treatment in Norwegian hospitals should be ready for you, and you should be treated quickly. That is why we are absolutely sure that the hospital budget needs to be strengthened in the years to come, and that is why we are also proposing it in our alternative budget. We propose that we meet the targets of several parties before the 2013 elections, and are in line with our proposals and budget improvements to achieve our target of 12 billion. kr more to hospitals during this landfill period. I will briefly describe what we see that the money could have been used for. It is partly about reducing waiting times by establishing evening-open outpatient clinics and pilot projects for waiting time reduction. This is our alternative to free treatment. We believe that several competent staff must be added to hospitals in order to achieve more efficient and sound operation. It is too many newly trained doctors who are waiting to use their skills in hospitals, to the extent that they are also in the municipalities. That is why we believe that several turns should be created. We propose increased research on personalised medicine, increased funding for work on patient safety programmes and many other proposals such as visualisation of how our hospital budget would contribute to the achievement of the objectives that we cross-politically share here in the Stortinget. I realize that's not going to get a majority. I think that's a pity, and that's what makes me come back to what I started with: the hospital debate, the health debate in Norway, should be measured by what we promised, and what kind of financial assumptions we have to implement it. No other government has been close to having an economic space like this government has. Then it's reassuring that you're not close to being able to fulfill the promises you've given yourself, for example. in hospitals, and to see that very many other sectors of society have seen far greater growth in their budgets than the health budget has received. With that, I take up the proposals that the Labour Party has promoted, what we have promoted alone, and those that we have promoted together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e402	The representative of Torgeir Micasen then mentioned the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e407	On TV 2 on 14 June this year, Freddy de Ruiter, who also sits on the Health Committee for the Workers' Party, says:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Hanna was referred from Ullevål and should be able to rely on medically responsible hospitals to guarantee the cost of a Swedish hospital. – It shall not be the wallet that is essential when she and others of distress and despair travel abroad for help. “But once the patient has recovered, I think it’ll be strange if the same patient meets that it doesn’t get refunded when society saves millions.” The working party voted against the possibility of a refund if it was not approved in advance, but the media said something else. Is it true that the Workers' Party has one vision when they vote and another outside in the media? And is it so that the Workers' Party cuts in this post because they think it's just those who get fresh, who should get a refund?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e421	The case referred to here by Kjønaas Kjos is well about MS treatment abroad and would obviously not be covered by the scheme to which the representative refers again. Because it is about the type of treatment you can get in Norwegian hospitals, but for various reasons it does not get, and therefore goes abroad and will get it covered afterwards. This type of MS treatment described by the Ruiters here is not available in Norway, i.e. It's going on right now, but on a very small scale. Like Freddy de Ruiter, I am very impatient on behalf of some patient groups who experience that a medical-technological breakthrough is right in front of their noses, and that feeling – that I might get well, just getting access to a new medicine or a new form of treatment quite quickly – I think we should have great respect for. It does not mean that there should be anything automatic about this; this must be discussed by the Stortinget and the professional authorities. But this is, among other things, one of the reasons why we have proposed the establishment of a treatment-based research project directed by Haukeland in relation to MS patients in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e428	The Labour Party uses a lot of its energy to criticise the government in terms of the hospital economy, despite the fact that in our three budgets we have a historic strengthening of the budgets and have facilitated a significantly higher rate of growth in patient treatment than the Health Ministers of the Labour Party have been able to obtain an average of eight years. Now the waiting times go down and the activities go up in the hospitals. It's enough that governments should measure what they actually deliver, more than what they promise before the election, especially after having had their hands on the wheel for eight years. Now, the Workers' Party operates in its alternative state budget with deposits of nearly 5 billion dollars. kr for which they do not have cover. I think there is reason to ask the former fiscal spokesman – now a health spokesman – the Mica of the Workers' Party about what he thinks about such unrealistic budgeting, and how it affects the credibility of the Hospital Lifts of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e435	I am constantly hearing the representatives of the government parties boast that you should not measure what you promised before the elections, but what you are actually doing. I agree, that is a good input into the matter. But this exercise where you've managed to figure out how many patients can be treated, we'll get the fasit in a while, because there's a number of assumptions here that we don't know if the hospitals will satisfy so far. As far as the budget of the Labour Party is concerned, I fully support it. I think it is very eye-catching that parties not only in opposition, but also in the government have had suggestions for containment that are bordering on the spectacular – it is enough to mention the bag tax from last year, and now the discussion about the fare is underway. The Labour Party has a very solid, well-worked budget that we could run in Norway. That's why we have credibility when we say that we're doing well and we're on track to achieve the goals we promised the election to the voters in the case of hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e442	We'll probably get back to billions later in the course of the day. But what I want to address is the debate that is now about introducing a waiting list for patients in the care of the elderly who obviously have a medical need for a nursing home. Today it is in many municipalities that the place is allocated when it is available, and not when the patient needs it, and when fixed and geriatric outpatient clinics and others have said that this is necessary. Therefore, neither local politicians nor we here at Stortinget know how many are actually on the waiting list. The question for the Workers' Party and the Micasen is then: why is it so very important to have waiting lists and a nine-time count of waiting lists in hospitals, while we are not going to have such a system in the municipal care service?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e449	First, I would like to say that I have not spoken out bombastically against the proposal of the government, because I see that there are arguments that argue that there should be a greater degree of transparency and transparency around what is the situation in the local care service. But I also see today that there are strong professional objections to this, and I think that is about – to take this comparison with hospitals – that there are no waiting lists for acutely ill patients in hospitals today. If you're acutely ill, you'll get immediate help. The same rule applies strictly to the legislation of municipal care. If you can't be met by the care needs you have, in any way other than through a hospital, there's no way to say no, or to say that you can't do it today. So I know this isn't as black and white as it sounds. That's why I'm open to discussing it. But I think that as a big deal we should take on serious professional objections that are coming, that this will not lead to what we want to achieve, namely increased transparency and better quality, but in the worst case perhaps the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e456	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e459	American writer McLaughlin wrote that a proud man can learn to show humility, but he will still be proud of it. Of course, I'm going to try to be humble in my post, but I'm going to tell you a lot about the government's work on health and care. There are no doubt results I am proud of. We have an important goal, and that's to create the patient's healthcare. I hear more and more professionals and patients use the exact same expression. It tells us that we are in the process of succeeding in creating the patient's healthcare. We succeed in moving power from the system to the patient. It's about good meetings with the health and care services, whether you're a patient, you're a user or you're a relative. Our goal is for patients to be actively involved in decisions on their own health and treatment. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have made many of our common promises to the voters before the elections. Many of these things we have fought together for in opposition and minorities here on the Storting for a number of years. Package schedules for cancer, the right to obtain BPA, the right to contact doctors for serious sick people and the introduction of free treatment options are concrete issues and reforms we have fought. We have fought them out because they responded to real challenges that real people experience in their health care encounters. For example, free treatment options are far from some performance reform, but on the contrary, a response to a system in which severely ill patients with a right to treatment were walking and waiting for help even if free capacity was available. The right to contact doctors is not only a right on a paper, but the result of an unsustainable system in which serious sick people became ballistics in the system, felt wild about the way forward and met ever new examples of what Per Fugelli called the ‘single-use doctors’. After a little over two years in government, we have presented communications and plans for concrete action in almost all parts of the health and care sector. There is no doubt that we are in the process of evaluating the entire healthcare system, and that this means that there is a marked health policy shift in Norway with our government. The 2016 budget is the third budget of the Government and the Parties and reinforces the profile of the health and care field as one of the main concerns of these parties. It is not just a list of actions and reforms that show that our policies deliver results – the speech of the figures is also clear. We've given greater freedom to hospitals, and it gives patients shorter waiting time. We are strengthening the hospital budgets in 2016 with a total of 2.7 billion. kr. The combination of reforms, significant increases in appropriations and new solutions has produced results after the government change. Waiting times go down and are now expected this year to be at the same level as the year when the red-green government took over. The waiting times claimed by the patients have been reversed. This means that fewer people have to wait unnecessarily long for absolutely necessary treatment. The reason is that hospitals have been given the freedom to treat more patients because the activity stack has been removed, and because more free capacity is now purchased from private and tender applications are being used. Effective package sequences ensure good patient progression and rational use of the specialist healthcare service. We are concerned with freedom of choice for patients. That's why we want to use all the good forces. We believe that diversity contributes to freedom of choice, innovation, quality and efficiency. In the drug field, waiting time has now decreased by 13 days – almost two weeks. There are important days, which can mean a be or not be for a drug addict who is motivated for treatment. Waiting times go down because the government’s first marshalling land in the first budget of health businesses after the government change was the purchase of more treatment sites at ideals and private homes and the reintroduction of the rule of higher growth in mental health and drug use than in the somatic environment. This year, we have introduced the patient reform of free treatment options, which finally gives drug addicts and mentally ill people with the right to treatment themselves the opportunity to decide where to treat. Drug addicts and mentally ill are among the first patient groups to have this freedom of choice. In my neighbouring municipality of Hurdal lies Norway's first private hospital that can provide drug-free treatment for mental ills. The local newspaper Eidsvoll Ullensaker Blade wrote a report about the long-prolonged, drug-free option in Hurdal. The Facebook article is now recommended by 25,900, and according to the journalist, the number of page references has passed 50,000. Year after year, health businesses have been informed to establish drug-free treatment services. A little has happened. With free treatment options, institutions such as the Hurdal Lake Recovery Centre can contribute to important innovation and innovation, and most importantly: patients in mental health protection who are longing for a day of treatment without medication can choose it. Many people experience that drugs slow them down and take away important quality of life. In Hurdal they want nutrition, activity and therapeutic treatment to be the most important medicine. But it's this freedom of choice for patients, this innovation and this diversity The Labour Party says they're going to choose to remove at the next big shot. Then you're not the patient's, you're the system's politicians. In the 2016 budget, we see the first bet within the proposed escalating plan for drugs, an obliging raising of 2.4 billion for drug care. kr over five years, which is historical. The plan shall equip the municipalities to strengthen their care, in order to ensure the life-threatening transitions after treatment and the return to normal everyday life. The results of care policies also speak for themselves. Not only do we strengthen our capacity by the fact that the development rate of the municipalities, measured by applications to the Husbanken, has almost doubled during this government. We have also invested in the competence of services, and we are trying out new solutions where the state takes greater responsibility. The 2016 budget follows up the announcement of the primary health service of the future, which was largely endorsed by the Stortinget this autumn. Better competence, leadership commitment, more team-organised work and good quality are at the heart of the primary health message and budget. Our commitment to preventive health work for children and young people brings results. In the 2016 budget, the total increase, with the strengths of previous years, is up to 750 million. kr. It has also produced the result that, according to COSTRA, there is now a development on the health side with 441 annual works. A budget consists of large numbers and small numbers, big things and small things. Sometimes it's the things that don't characterize the media image, which are also important to many people. When the government proposes a 2016 and 2017 pick-up program of 72 million. kr, allowing women up to 26 years of age to be offered vaccine against HPV, there is an important preventive health issue for many women. Mortality cancer is the most common form of cancer in young women, and this shows that we give priority to the prevention of women. We go into a Christmas feast that too many are marked by light, warmth and good experiences. But not everyone has anyone around them in everyday life or in the holidays. The government is committed to mobilising for efforts against solitude and rates in the budget 36.8 million. kr in this area. It gives many volunteers the opportunity to be fellow human beings for those who really need it. Budgetary work is also a priority. I am thinking in particular of the item in the budget that is called medical consumables. A great deal of uncertainty has been created in stoma patients and patients with incontinence around the fact that some of the products, on a proposal from HELFO, are now being moved out of the blue prescription system. We have received many requests from patients who fear that the change will go beyond their quality of life. Nevertheless, we believe that it is important to have such reviews as HELFO now does, to make sure that we give the right priority. In HELFO's trade union council, both users and the trade union community have been represented, and the reason for removing the products is that they are not used in line with the intention. In line with the comments and replies made by the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Kjønaas Kjos, the Right and the Advance Party will support proposal No. 35, from S.V., which has been promoted today. There is a lot of uncertainty about this. We believe that patients who use barrier clocks today, which is the largest item, will be able to get their products related to the anti-skin irritation and inflammation of the skin, via the scheme through other products. But we see that it might make sense to get such a review or such an answer as SV suggests in proposal No. Thirty-five. Finally, the 2016 budget clearly shows our three main health concerns: we reduce unnecessary waiting for treatment. We ensure quality, capacity and competence in care. We give priority to addiction and mental health. It may be tempting to borrow a new quote, this time from the Swedish Göran Persson who said I am proud, but not satisfied. The results are good, but a lot remains. We've only started by creating the patient's healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e505	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e509	I fully agree that we have a very good health care system, that a lot is done and a lot is done. Our task as politicians is to prioritise, not least because health is what constitutes the most important factor in social inequality. The right is also concerned that we're going to have greater power in this hall. When the Priority Committee presented its priority proposal, which we have not yet received, they raised MS patients. It was the group that really got the least help in terms of quality of life, and they missed a greater effort. Now it turns out that we have managed to find a new treatment provision also in Norway. The Working Party therefore promoted a proposal to increase the research effort so that more than five–six are offered. It is also about freedom of choice – that there is an offer especially for all those affected by MS. So the question to the Right is, why won't Right support an increased bet just on further research related to MS?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e518	I share the Workers' Party's view that a good treatment offer for MS patients is important, and I am very pleased that it has started up in Norway – in Haukeland. I have registered that the Knowledge Centre has provided a report related to this type of treatment. So I'm basically waiting for the work on that report, that is, how we're going to interpret the signals that have come from the Knowledge Centre in this area. I think this is a very important debate, which we will also get when the prioritisation message is presented to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e523	A lot of good was said about the hospital budget in the post of the representative. But in the Official Journal of Bergen on 10 December, the Managing Director of Health Bergen says that for the first time in six years they experience a real downturn in their budgets, and we see that confidence prevails over the whole country, especially before the Russ- und Psychiatric field, a warning is being given that the supply of drugs and psychiatry will be cut next year. A health manager at St. Olav's hospital asks in the NRK if it is such that one can perceive the golden rule as fulfilled if one cuts less in drugs and psychiatry than in the somatic supply. I would like to ask the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen whether she also thinks that the golden rule is to understand that the leaders should cut less in the russian and psychiatry areas than in the somatic supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e530	I am very pleased that the representative Toppe is concerned with the golden rule, which our government reintroduced after the election. It was a rule that the representative's party in the government itself removed. There is no doubt that our government has invested significantly more in this area than the previous government did, and we see it particularly in drug treatment, where the waiting time goes down. 13 days less waiting time means an incredible amount for the patients involved. But we're also concerned that the intention of the golden rule should be followed. For this reason, the government parties together with the Christian People's Party and the Left have, in a note in the budget, asked the government to see whether the intentions attached to the golden rule are followed in health businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e539	Health enterprises are now required to assume responsibility for abuses, and we are very positive about that. But one of the things that's got a lot of attention in the budget, and that's not addressed in the conciliation either, is that there's no money going on with the task. Within a tight hospital budget, where there are strong demands for efficiency improvement and limited extra appropriations, many are concerned that there will be no economic room for action to carry out this new task in a good enough way. For this reason, my question is how the Right will ensure that abuse recipients are not deprived within the tight budgets on which health businesses are to deal in due course.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e544	This is an important area, and I am particularly pleased that we have given the opportunity that the good intercommunals, or the large, robust municipal offenders, can also continue in the future, so this is a work that will continue to be done in the abuse recipients who have good and long experience of it, and also in the specialist health services of health companies. I trust that healthcare companies will give this priority. There is an incredibly important work to be done, and it is absolutely essential that we quickly put in place the necessary studies and treatment for those who come to the scene and need help. I trust that this is a priority for health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e551	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e554	When disease strikes, either abruptly or gradually, many experience a well-functioning healthcare service that provides good treatment and safe frameworks when things become very unpredictable. Life is saved every day in Norwegian hospitals. Employees work day and night to ensure that the elderly and caregivers are well cared for, both in hospitals, in hospitals and at home. Children and young people get help when everyday life gets heavy – someone sees and someone cares. It's important to be thankful. Nevertheless, as politicians, we need to be concerned about how we can improve and develop healthcare so that they can provide quality, safety, accessibility and care for the patient at the centre, and that it characterises healthcare every day. It is essential that we strengthen efforts in the work that can help prevent disease and ill health. Early effort can be a crucial investment for a long and good life for an individual. Early efforts aimed at children and young people can reduce physical and mental distress and suffering in recent years. Health stations and school health services are services to meet people where they are and where they live their lives. It is therefore essential that services have the capacity and competence to address challenges in families and among children and young people in their everyday lives. According to the Health Directorate’s School Health Code, about 1 000 posts are lacking to reach the Health Directorate’s standard for this particular service. The Christian People's Party believes that the funds for the school health service must be earmarked for an escalation period in order to get the service up to a proper level. In the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, we proposed to earmark 500 million. for more jobs in health centres and in school health services throughout the country. It is an important saying for the Christian People's Party that as a result of the conciliation, there was an agreement to increase the pot for school health by 100 million. kr and earmark the money. We would have liked to have earmarked more. For school health to be called a lowthreshold service, the service must be available to children and young people across the country — all the time. The number of reports of abuse of children and young people in family relationships has increased by more than 20 pst. in recent years. Violence in close relationships is a major societal problem, and early action is essential to combat violence and to prevent as much harm as possible. The public has a responsibility to help both victims and offenders. There must be an overall commitment, and it must be made in several sectors. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that we were able to see through our proposal for a comprehensive escalation plan to combat violence in close relations. We are also pleased that the Health and Welfare Committee endorses the requirement that regional health businesses ensure that all child services employ doctors with specialisation in violence against children, social pediatricians. It is not enough for the competence to be available in the specialist healthcare service; it must be actively used if we are to be able to detect violence and abuse. Regional health undertakings shall also ensure, as a result of the care-related responsibilities of the specialist healthcare service, that all children exposed to violence at the State Children's Hospital are subject to medical examination. You can see that just about. 20 pst. children who are exposed to violence receive medical examination today. Here we have to see a change. Such studies may be essential to detect and stop violence and abuse against children and young people. Sick elderly and nursing people need a safe and complete offer. The provision of services to the elderly and caregivers varies from municipality to municipality. We do not believe that the answer alone lies in government governance and financing of the care of the elderly, although we support the attempt that is now being made. Municipalities must be able to tailor care services to their inhabitants. At the same time, it will be absolutely necessary for the State to provide the municipalities with resources to enable them to provide a safe and good care for the elderly and caregivers. Strengthening the staffing of care institutions gives better time to individuals. The most vulnerable elderly are entitled to adequate supervision and follow-up from a doctor. Medical treatment in hospitals is still low in care institutions, despite the fact that there are more patients than before, and that these are often healthier than before. We in the Christian People's Party proposed to allocate 500 million in our alternative budget. kr to municipalities to increase medical coverage and staffing in Norwegian nursing homes. In practice, it would mean 500 new posts in municipalities. In many places it could mean more jobs. In particular, there is a need to strengthen the staffing of short-term departments in general and to care for people with dementia in long-term departments. Many do not need investigation and follow-up. We have taken the proposal on the basis of the Lege Association's proposal for a standard of medical coverage. With a budget of 500 million. We would be able to facilitate compliance with the Medical Association's standard of medical coverage in the event of an escalation of three years. At the same time, the Christian People's Party will be committed to recruiting more disciplines into hospitals to ensure that patients are treated with care. A good community economy is a prerequisite for good health and care services in the municipalities, and with the Christian People's Party's budget proposals we strengthen this further. It is a political task to ensure serious ill and dying a dignified care. That is why the Christian People's Party is pleased that a national public investigation is being carried out in this area, that guidelines for children's palliatives will now be put in place, and that its own palliative teams for children and advanced home hospitals for children across the country are now to be assessed. The provision of services to the seriously ill and dying is fragmented today, and care services in municipalities need to be adapted to these patients, where many spend the last days of their lives. The Christian People's Party has therefore also proposed that by 2020 600 bed units should be established in the municipalities for just serious sick and dying, adapted to their specific needs. The Christian People's Party also proposed in the budget for the next year to provide 150 municipal hospice places, as a first part of the escalating plan for 2020. A strong commitment to prevention is needed if we are to achieve the objectives of reducing harmful alcohol consumption by 10 pst. by 2020. An offensive and supportive alcohol policy will reduce the number of people in need of help in the care of drug users. The Christian People's Party wants to reverse the extension of the tax-free quota, which was changed in 2014, and we propose to increase the taxes on alcohol because we know that price and availability are the main means we have to reduce consumption and abuse. There is a need for a comprehensive alcohol strategy and, as politicians, we need to facilitate a conscious and responsible alcohol policy in the workplace, and work among children and young people must be given greater priority. That's why we're glad that, as a result of the agreement, an additional 13 million is granted. to help non-governmental organisations with prevention in the field of drugs. I was visiting Avinor, and they're a good example of how it's possible to work for a conscious alcohol policy at work and reduce alcohol consumption. The size shall address a comprehensive and binding escalation plan for the drug field, with a particular focus on municipal provision. This is a long-awaited plan for the Christian People's Party, but not least it is a long-awaited effort for the municipalities, for those with abusy and their relatives. The focus shall be on seamless and adapted treatment and strong after-sales protection. In order to ensure a commitment, the Christian People's Party proposed in its alternative budget to allocate the money directly to the municipal deliberations and to designate them as non-profit and non-profit organisations in the field. Ideas may include: contribute to the construction of adapted housing in municipalities where the municipality itself does not have that possibility, and the addicts will have employees around the clock. To bet on non-profit institutions and non-profit institutions is to bet on users of services. But these organisations often don't fit into the squares, adapted to the municipal and specialist health services. There must be political will to secure the future of NPISHs. This will benefit the users of the services. We're at a crossroads of the Norwegian welfare community, because what the ideal actors who are active in welfare services say is that they can get away in a few years if the framework conditions don't get better. Then we lose an important addition to public health: actors who put values as closeness and quality first. With this Christian People's Party will tell us that we will support proposal No. 35, from SV, in addition to the proposals we are co-sponsored to. I would also like to mention proposal No. 17 on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e592	The representative of Olug Bollestad has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e597	The health centre is one of the best prevention tools available to the welfare state, and research shows that health-station municipalities, among others. has fewer child protection issues. This is because the health centre provides important advice and guidance to children, young people and parents. The working party has therefore earmarked 200 million in its alternative budget. kr to health centres, and we are happy that the Christian People's Party has contributed to the fact that the government has also earmarked some money for the purpose. However, it must be allowed to point out that the representative of Bollestad had received a greater impact with the Workers' Party. But the Workers' Party is aware that the designation of the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party, as a subsidy scheme, and my question to the representative of Bollestad is then: How does it intend this subsidy scheme to work, and does the representative believe that this is good enough to ensure the desired investment in the health centre?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e604	First of all, the Christian People's Party agrees with the Workers' Party that it must designate to reach a certain level, not for earring, but for young people, because they do not get their fair share of the economic cake that the municipalities get. That's why the Christian People's Party wants to label. As to how the device becomes, it is important for the Christian People's Party that it be the first to benefit children, but also that it should not be the responsibility of municipalities to refrain from investing in school health service until they receive the funds closest to the state. It shall answer to be forward-looking and bet on the young, and one shall not lose it to be exposed to new jobs because one has been ahead of his time and bet on school health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e612	The centre party is probably in agreement with many of the Christian People's Party's health priorities, so I actually have a question about something that I can't quite understand. There is why the Christian People's Party has not done anything in its alternative budget with the cut proposed by the government, cut in medical consumables to patients who have stutter or incontinence, and what the Christian People's Party will do in the future when one sees that many out there have reacted to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e617	The Christian People's Party understands very well the reactions that are coming. We've had a lot of reactions. The Christian People's Party does not want this to hit them most that are often outside from before. That is why the Christian People's Party has said that we will assess this in the context of the revised budget, because we think it affects someone who is initially often more isolated than others. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will work towards the revised budget in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e622	It's the same thing. It is well and good that the Christian People's Party will work on this towards revision, and I am also pleased that they will support our proposal to get a presentation as soon as possible. But it's still the case that the Christian People's Party has gone for this cut with open eyes, and obviously without having a full understanding of what the consequences are for individuals. To the NRK Trondelag, the stomi-operative Ingrid Anette recently told me that she could get 20 000 kroner in extra costs because of the cut Christian People's Party supports today. I have explained to another person with whom we have had contact, who says that the costs are NOK 12 000. These are people who are struggling to get the ends to meet, and where these may be significant costs. So my question is, is it really that the Christian People's Party, in the process of negotiating the budget agreement, did not ensure that there was a proper overview of what the costs could be for the patient group it was about?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e631	Initially, this was a review of HELFO. The Christian People's Party sees, after all, the direct impact this has had on individuals, and therefore the Christian People's Party believes that we want to work on this matter towards revision. We do not want the impact on individuals to which the representative refers, which receives additional costs of up to NOK 12 000 to NOK 20 000. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will address this matter in the context of the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e636	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e639	Today is Monday, and next Thursday is Christmas Eve. In Norway, we can assume that there are as many as 200,000 children who work for Christmas because of the alcohol abuse of caregivers. On Saturday, representatives from the Left, the Advance Party and the Right stood on TV and toasted in starch beer and wanted each other good Christmas and good beer. The message was that they wanted Christmas beer away from the Wine Monopoly and into the grocery store to increase its availability. The proposal is the last in a series of unsolidarized alcohol liberal proposals that the Right, the Advance Party and the Left raise. The centre party will be clear: we will prevent drug abuse and suffering by pursuing a restrictive alcohol policy. We believe that the alcohol policy has gone in a very wrong direction with the Right-front party government – always supported by the Left. We are proposing an increase in the taxes on alcohol and tobacco in our budget, and we are reducing tax-free quotas. We want a real public health stake. We'll use the school as the pre-constructor's arena. We want to have one hour of physical activity every day, reintroduce free fruit and green and have a go-to arrangement for scalding food. There are important public health initiatives in our budget. We believe that voluntary and non-profit organisations need to use more in public health work, and give priority to this. We're going to allow 25 million. SEK to an incentive scheme for increased physical activity directed by voluntary and non-profit organisations in 2016, and we also contribute funds to ensuring the quality of drinking water. The community health service is the foundation wall of the health service. By strengthening the municipal economy, the Centre Party will facilitate the positive development of the provision of health and care in municipalities. The centre party will also give priority to mental health work in the municipalities, and we propose 400 million. kr in ear-marked funds for a municipal mental health escalation plan. We're also prioritizing 50 million. D on the budgets of regional health care providers for increasing efforts to prevent and treat hepatitis C, a disease that is very common among current and former drug users. Municipal Medical Officer is the first term in the emergency medical chain and is currently undersized. The municipal bodyguard service must be strengthened. People need to get close to the service. Today, many people experience the simultaneous centralisation of both medical services, ambulance services and emergency services in local hospitals. It's a development where people in the district get longer travel distances in case of acute illness, and it's an unsustainable development, which the Center Party will work against. Health Minister Höie has sent a proposal on the statutory right to be on the waiting list for the sick home place. The proposal is, not unexpectedly, countered by both the Health Directorate, the Medical Association, the Patient Environment and the KS. The central party believes that state funding and the legal right to be on a waiting list are not the necessary tools to strengthen the care of the elderly. Elder care takes place locally. Local authorities must have room to do the job, and one must ensure good leadership, quality management and adequate manpower and competence. The centre party will have a special strengthening of the supply of people with dementia. 23,000 people, homesick elderly with dementia, are waiting today for a day-to-day place of activity. Year after year, it has been shown that the municipalities do not build enough places, even if more money has been allowed on the state budget. We now believe that we need to improve the take-off order, and we're going to allow 70 million. kr to increase the rate of advance for the establishment of day-time activities places from 30 to 50 pst. The center party also believes it is important to give more older people assistance in training to master tasks in everyday life, and suggests a strong commitment to home rehabilitation. This will allow more people to survive in their own homes and in their own homes. The centre party also believes that there must be more everyday activity in the hospital supply. Many residents of hospitals are in too little activity. Better functional levels through more activity will increase the quality of life of many older people while reducing the cost of disease treatment. The centre party believes that all elderly people at the hospital should be provided with one hour of activity every day, adapting the level of function to the individual. In our alternative budget, we propose an additional 200 million. to hospitals which have created such activities. In our opinion, we can contribute to more physiotherapists, ergot therapists, activists, music therapists and volunteer coordinators in the care of the elderly. In addition, we strengthen the cultural spaser stick. The centre party is concerned that too many older people are being subjected to the misuse of medicine. The centre party will thereby strengthen the pharmaceutical competence of the municipalities and propose 15 million. kr to carry out several medical examinations in hospitals and 5 million. kr to start the Medisinstart scheme, i.e. the Start Guide. The family-based care in Norway is not insignificant. The central party believes that those who do a lot of care work in the home need to get better justice and financial arrangements. We give priority to a doubling of the work to increase the number of relatives in the municipalities. The hospital supply in Norway is under pressure. The Central Party believes that the public hospitals must be strengthened. We want to warn against the government's policy of centralisation and privatisation of the Norwegian specialist healthcare service. The centre party was – and is – opposed to the reform of the Free Treatment Choice and that healthcare professionals should be required to create a strategy to increase the purchase of private individuals. Instead, we want to strengthen the quality and capacity of patient treatment and delivery in public hospitals and ensure preparedness throughout the country, and we have made proposals to the Stortingen to develop hospitals in a networked model for quality development, where local hospitals are strengthened, not weakened. We see a great need to strengthen the public hospital budget. Many healthcare providers need to cut service provision to next year. «A brutal budget», declared the Chief Council of the Association of Ambulances in Health Bergen to the Official Journal of Bergen on Friday 11 December. In his department, they're going to have to cut $10 million. in the ambulance service until next year. The night ambulance in Granvin disappeared. In the Official Journal of Bergen on 10 December, the work environment selection at Haukeland calls for warning against what they think will become a harmful working environment that will result from a tight budget for 2016. The Managing Director of Health Bergen stated in newspaper the same day that for the first time in six years the enterprise experienced real decline in transfers from Health West to Health Bergen. The increment is 2.3 pst, which is lower than the wage and price increase of 2.7 pst. The Director does not hide the tightness of the budget: ‘During periods this may be challenging for our employees at work.’ The golden rule is also under pressure. St. Olav's Hospital plan cut at 20 million. before mental health protection next year. At Oslo University Hospital, it has been well known that they will have to go down to a level of mental health protection that is back to before the escalation plan. It's not this government party that I think is to bet on rush and psychiatry, is it? The last time today, in the Official Journal of Bergen, it is said that health Bergen on the drug field fears that the proposed cut in the next year’s drug treatment will result in the Golden Rule not being followed up. So that's a good reason why the Center Party is proposing 1 billion. In addition to the government's proposal in the supplementary position to strengthen the hospital budget, of this 150 million. DKK in ear-marked funds for health care for refugees, 100 million. NOK 50 million for more rotational options. SEK 50 million for local hospital educational facilities. kr for stem cell treatment against MS and 30 mill. kr to decentralised light treatment. In addition, we've prioritised $4 million. SEK to telemedicine at the University of Tromsø and SEK 7 million. kr for the Tromsø study. The smallest cut-off proposal in the state budget is cut into medical consumables for people with stoma and incontinence. HELFO's report on the cost of medical consumables is outside the public domain. The Christian People's Party and the Left have supported the unsolidaristic proposal of the government party without knowing why. These help products are necessary for these patients to function in the workplace and in social contexts, and the Centre Party will support the loose proposals from SV in this matter. In the Central Party's alternative budget, we redeploy more than 1.5 billion. kr in the budget of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, including cuts in health administration and isolated cuts in areas where the Centre Party has other solutions. In addition, we add more than 1.1 billion to the budget of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. kr. I would like to take up the proposal of the Centre Party in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e682	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e687	The government took over a health care system with growing cows after red-green governance, especially in mental health and drug abuse. Use of private insurance shot speed. Minister of Health and Health Höie has put in place a number of measures to reduce waiting times, including: increased funding, the use of free capacity by private individuals, the removal of the activity gap in hospitals, the use of input-driven funding and not least the introduction of the Golden Rule and the reform of Free Treatment Choice. The centre party wishes to provide a framework funding for hospitals and private reduction and, in particular, is opposed to free treatment choices. How will the Center Party bring down the queues, and, not least, how should they give priority to mental health and drug abuse?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e694	There has been a strong down-priority of public health with the new government. Two local hospitals are even completely closed. The competence environment has been removed. We now see a lot of feedback on next year’s budget – public health services are struggling because they are also required to buy more from private individuals. The center party wants to strengthen the public health services, the public hospitals, because we see that there is free capacity there. There we have a good environment of competence. They are also the ones for urgent help. That's where we secure the education of health professionals. Obviously, if the public health service had been allowed, and were not required to privatize, we could get a good health service for all patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e701	In the election campaign Kjersti Toppe speeded the country and the beach around and warned against the government's national health and hospital plan. She almost created a scare picture and expressed that many hospitals would be laid down. Now we have the fasit that the government is not laying down a single hospital as a result of the plan – I repeat: not a single hospital. When Toppe's own party was in government, the red-greens put down many hospitals, including Aker. Now the Center Party, together with SV, proposes that Aker Hospital be restored as a fully-fledged local hospital. The question is then: What is the reason for the complete reversal of the Toppe representative, and why did she not support the proposal of the Progress Party when this was promoted in document 8:70 S for 2009-2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e712	I just want to ask back if the Progress Party does not support our proposal now, when they meant it in 2009, and the background is probably a bit the same. Otherwise, I would like to distance myself from going around spreading uncertainty in the election campaign. What I have said about the National Health and Hospital Plan is exactly what the Health Minister said in his hospital speech on 7 January, that one would discuss a development in which local hospitals are exempted from emergency surgery, which is now also a proposal. I mean that such hospitals are not robust – I'm going to use that word – that won't recruit, and that won't survive as a hospital in the long run. That concern is just as strong now as she was in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e720	Under the red-green government, with the centre party among the parties, one of Europe's largest health projects was launched, and that was the merger of the hospitals in Oslo. The past shows that there is no big cheerleaders sitting here thinking that this is something we have to do with several other hospitals. The interaction reform was also a major reform, it was very right behind it, but there is no doubt that it starts with the most demanding patients, and the Central Party has a national meeting decision that says they will scrape the whole reform. I am most concerned with mental health and drug abuse, where we face a major challenge. The income models used by hospitals today stem from the red-green era. What does the Centre Party think about those income models?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e729	There were a lot of claims here. The whole interaction reform should not be scrapped by the centre party. We have asked questions about the liability of the fragile elderly, those who are in the final phase of life. We have suggested that this might not be the right way to operate the payment scheme. When it comes to addiction and psychiatry, the representative may think about what's happening in the Inland, about the distribution key that's in Health south-east. I have asked questions about this to the Minister of Health and Care. I think what's happening at the Inland Hospital is far too drastic, it goes beyond the supply of those who need help for mental illness, and I think that one is forced to look at these arrangements. If you want to strengthen your mental health supply, you have to make sure that it happens in the first place, and that there's not just something you talk about in here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e736	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e739	Today we are discussing next year’s allocations and priorities for the health sector – almost 180 billion. kr. They're big numbers, but then we're the Big Thing, too. We need to discuss the big things and the long lines. Next year is the first year in a hopeful long life for many children. The most socio-economic profitable thing we can do is invest in good growth. The way we look at children and children’s needs has changed radically in the last 40 years – almost my lifetime. The penal code, which gave parents the right to punish children, was lifted only in 1972, but it took a long time before most people accepted that violence against children is very harmful to the mental health of children and often provides serious mental health conditions in adulthood. Children who are injured often become ill adults. Unfortunately, we see too many examples of this in child protection, in psychiatry and in drug care. I am pleased that in the budgetary agreement we are strengthening the efforts to reduce and expose violence against children. We have also worked for several years to step up both health centres and school health services. We know that they are in a unique position to reach children and young people and their families. Now we're in the middle of the escalation, and the left has the ambition to establish 1000 new jobs in both places during this ageing period. We're on the right track with the appropriations, and we see that the statistics are going in the right direction. Fortunately, the government parties agree with us on this important initiative. Family protection and child protection are also strengthened. It also makes the investment in kindergartens, which is the place outside the family that is most important for promoting good health in children. That is why I and Left are pleased that, as a result of the budgetary agreement, we extend the free core time system in kindergartens to include three-year-olds. Several have been concerned: health is created primarily outside the health sector, so that the production of health takes place mainly above other budgets. Health is created through participation in school and working life, through volunteering and through safe and good social networks. If we can build good communities, we create good health. Therefore, health cannot be seen in isolation. This is precisely why the Left and I, as health politicians, want to focus on public health and early intervention, and we proposed to modernise the growth of health businesses to strengthen other parts of the budget where efforts are more health-efficient. We need to prevent more to repair less. Hospital growth and repair cannot be carried out indefinitely. We have to dry to make a direction pick. It does so on the left – too early and for the health of young children. Back to the big things here in Stortinget, to the billions. Nearly 130 B.C.E. kr goes to hospital treatment. For the Left, it is also important to talk about the slightly fewer billions, such as the one billion to combat child poverty, which we have achieved together with the majority parties through several budgetary negotiations. One should also not germinate from the billion we've earned in increasing bets on collectives, bicycles and times, not to mention 2.4 billion. kr which, over the next four years, will be in circulation for increased capacity and quality of care. Activity, early response and prevention — yes, public health at large — are Left's health policy. So for the left, it's important that we don't stick with 428 different ways of driving public health. Today there is too little capacity in total in the municipalities, for scattered competence, too little interaction, and as a result, there is too little systematics locally. It is our great responsibility to contribute to increased capacity and quality in the municipalities. One of the left's responses is that there are fewer municipalities and more collection of health resources regionally – more Family Houses, more district medical centres and more district psychiatric centers directed by some major municipalities. In the fall I was visiting Orkanger in the municipality of Orkdal, and there the municipality was very ready to take over the DPS. This is not of the largest municipalities, but they have worked systematically for many years to be so good in both capacity and quality that they are able to take this task locally. I'm glad we're going to have a diabetes plan in 2016. It doesn't last to just ten pst. the diabetics have been entered in the Diabetes Register. It says something about the lack of a system, both in prevention and treatment. Municipalities and decision-makers need to be more involved. In my county, Uppland, the prescription of diabetes medicine is well below the national average. In the neighbouring county of Hedmark, right above Mjösa, as in demography and size, so to speak, is completely equal, it is far above the national average. There may be plausible explanations of the difference, but one challenge is that we don't know. We need to acquire this knowledge. The challenge is that no one is responsible for getting it up today. My hypothesis is that the rate of green prescription in Uppland is one of the explanations for this difference. I am a major supporter of varied offers, both in public, private and non-profit-making terms. That is why I am pleased that the budget agreement increased the resources to establish more Fontenehus for mentally ill adults and more Compass centres for children of mentally ill and addicted people. In addition, support schemes for municipalities and volunteers are strengthened to provide more lowthreshold services. We also provide increased support for the Change Factory and the important work, such as: Psychiatric health Professionals do to talk out the health care of children. Green care such as entering the tunnel and other providers of such services and activities, we need more of them. This results in positive health effects on a number of close patient groups, among others. nature and animals. I've been up to the structural challenges. We see today that those 130 billion. we use in the hospital sector through four health businesses, have contributed to quality improvement and standardisation. It is a challenge that the local government sector does not have the same speed in structuring, standardising and organising its services. Community reform is therefore one of the answers, but not one of the answers alone. Several doctors have been involved, and there is a need to look at its organisation. Today, when we have 191 medical officers and 428 municipalities, it says something about the most important service a municipality produces, is completely indifferent to the number of municipalities, and then it's a challenge somewhere. In the handball language, which we obviously follow a little bit on right now, it's called counting errors when the defense players get into subnumbers. I'll use it as a parallel. The ambulance service has similar challenges. We also have a large number of contract specialists who are struggling to find a place both in the specialist health service and in the community health service – these too there is a need to look at the relationship and organisation of. Health information is another example that we talk little about. The left has proposed the introduction of a national health service in line with the United Kingdom’s, NHS 24. We see the outlines of it with the introduction of the new number 116 117. So far, the use is limited, and people relate to the traditional emergency numbers 110, 112 and 113. It takes time to establish such new services. In addition, we need to switch to more digital and Internet-based services. ‘Innovation’ is one of the key words here, to get it to local. Today, we have too few regional players who can drive innovation. We put a lot on research and development in the hospital sector, but it is too small and too poorly organised in the municipal sector. It is also linked to the use of new information technologies. One of the left's answers is more public-private cooperation in what is agreed. As the Labour Party has not proposed to spend more money on the municipalities to purchase, but I have proposed to establish a loan scheme for welfare technology. One of the challenges today is that there are so many standards, so different platforms that municipalities refuse to make large acquisitions because there are so many challenges involved in implementing new technologies. Left will support SV's proposal No. 35, to come back to the revised national budget and report on medical consumables.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e784	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e787	The left has gone into the brink of strengthening the response to people with diabetes. The Workers' Party will give the representative Mr Kjeseth recognition for this. Like the Left, we support the development of a diabetes plan to strengthen the efforts of this patient group, which has a serious chronic disease. The Diabetes Association has highlighted in particular one challenge that they are asking us to clarify quickly, namely the development of a system in kindergartens and schools that ensures clear responsibilities, training and good drug management for children with diabetes. Why can the Left not support the motion in the motion for a resolution tabled by the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left on this very point?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e794	I thank you for the question from the Workers' Party. A diabetes plan shall be drawn up in 2016. The proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left may find its place in that diabetes plan. Another proposal – from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left – is that we move four-year controls out of health centres and into kindergartens. I think we're pretty much thinking the same thing here. We have to put in the effort earlier. We have to close the gaps in the transition between kindergarten and school. We need more systematics. But the immediate answer is not to start with the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. We will see the whole before we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e803	The left is concerned with mental health. I thought that was very good. I know that the representative is concerned about the offer at the Hospital Inland. It has been reported in the newspapers that when a person dealt with the Roadmap for mental health, they were administered approximately. 184 million. NOK, while they are now required to cut SEK 257 million. kr over eight years – that is, back to the level before the escalation plan, you can say. At the same time, I see that the left in the alternative budget cuts 530 million. kr in the maternity grant to Health south-east. My question is whether he believes that such a prioritisation of the hospital budget will lead to more funds for the health service at the Hospital Inland.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e810	I thank you for the question. It is primarily the income model in the south-east of Health that causes the Hospital Inland to be imposed on such cuts. Then there is also a priority between somatics and psychiatry as a doer at the Hospital Inland. This income model is a demanding legacy from the previous government in order to face up to so-called urban challenges and the fact that one has heavier patient costs and some security prisoners, among other things, with psychiatric needs, which make it a demanding priority between the little technical and what is policy in it. We want to get an evaluation of this income model. It affects not only the Hospital Inland but also several other health companies. We see that there are different models in Health South-East and Health Middle-Norway. There is a need for a review of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e821	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e825	The draft budget that SV has been promoting this year in the field of health is of the highest priority in terms of prevention and public health. This means that we have chosen to see the school and education fields and the health field as a whole, and we have put some of the appropriations needed to get the whole-day school reform that SV is fighting for into the health and care budget. That's because we believe that a proper commitment to public health, to healthy growth, healthy food and physical activity in schools will be perhaps the most important investment we can make in future public health and reduced costs for repair. Therefore, SV proposes that we start in 2016 with a reform for the introduction of free school food and fruit in primary school. We want to start with a free bread meal in high school, and we want to reintroduce fruit in high school and then throughout primary school. It has now been well explained that the cuts made by the majority in the fruit scheme are irresponsible from a public health point of view. It was an unusually good system when it came to providing a healthier diet for young people in Norway. In addition, SV will propose half an hour of physical activity every day at 1–7. Steps to get our children into a way of life in which physical activity is a matter of course and not only to reserve those who have that opportunity at home. In the context of the full-time school reform, SV also wants to step up the system of health centres for young people and school health services. It's a wish it's cross-political and broad consensus about, but where we separate layers in the sense of how this best can be financed. It's just to say the same thing this year as last year: one can't keep calling money that actually goes to asphalt or debt payments, for money for health sisters. There will be too few health sisters of the government's now spending two consecutive budgets. It's necessary to earmark these means if we're going to get to the escalation and bet that a total increase has shown that we want to. Another main effort in the SV alternative state budget is about a new way of organising care for the elderly. We want a settlement with the stopwatch service that means that too many of our older people around the municipalities get too poor a deal. It is primarily a municipal responsibility, but the Stortinget can facilitate the settlement with the stopwatch care of e.g. to grant funds for testing schemes by other means of organising care. We want trust reforms in Norwegian municipalities according to the pattern of what they have done in Copenhagen. This involves new ways of organising everyday life, e.g.: for home nurses and other home care nurses, so that one no longer has a minute’s decision, but instead a greater degree of professional freedom for the individual to organise the day according to the needs of the elderly. SV proposes a government pot for testing trust reform in Norwegian municipalities. In the same way, we are proposing an allocation for the introduction of time-accounting schemes in the care of the elderly. In other words, people with a high need for care who are still at home will get a little more time from home services that they themselves can dispose of and manage – even that one idea from Copenhagen. It was possible to implement in Denmark because the Folketing granted a government pot, just as we are now proposing. We also believe that Stortinget should take the first steps towards a national staffing standard for nursing homes. There is a question we have discussed in many rounds in this room, and there are still some unclear messages from the government parties as to whether there is going to be a matter of a standard or not. In any case, the Storting could start by escalating appropriations to e.g. attempts at increased ground crew, as proposed by SV in its budget. It is very gratifying that many of the things that SV has proposed in Stortinget and got voted down, will now be tested by the new City Council in Oslo. In the care of the elderly in Oslo, a closer look at the reform of trust instead of a stopwatch. In the care of the elderly in Oslo, a time-accounting system shall be set up. Older people in Oslo are now working to find solutions to strengthen the community’s care rather than further privatization. It is a great pleasure to see that the work is now to be managed by a City Council from SV, and I hope that the government parties nationally will choose to be challenged and inspired by what is happening in Oslo in the future. The hospital economy is going to be tight with the current budget. There is a great deal of numerical magic in the budget where budgetary increases may appear to be significantly larger than they are due to very large efficiency requirements. We therefore propose an increase in the hospital economy of 680 million in our budget. kr, and we also believe that it is essential to earmark the appropriations for the infringement recipient when a person has no higher appropriations than the Government Parties have submitted. We fear, as I took into account in one of my lines, that the work of carrying out the new task of infringing reception will be delayed if it is not followed up by clearer leaderships than the government has now done. SV proposes a strengthened hospital economy within a budget line where we spend 7 billion. oil crowns less than the government. This shows that it is possible to give higher priority to health and care, while at the same time maintaining a more responsible economic policy if one does not have the same unimpeded expenditure increases in unnecessary areas as for example. tax cuts, as the blue priority. SV has also chosen to propose an earmarked allocation for municipal care. This is because of the many debates we have had in this Chamber on the need for increased efforts in municipalities to meet the ambitions we have here, that we should both get a faster and better treatment of addicts and opportunities for rehabilitation. There we know that housing is a key issue that is not properly followed up by the municipalities, and then we believe it is also necessary there to earmark funds. It's controversial to be in favour of ringing in different areas, but if the Storting wants to lead, if the Storting wants to set national standards, ringing is the most effective way we can do it. Finally, let me address the matter that has been the subject of many lines of paper and articles, namely the situation of those who are dependent on medical consumables, in which it is now cut. We sent questions to the department last week with a deadline of Friday to find out what kind of overview the government actually has of the economic impact on these patient groups. We have received a reply today after the deadline that this is too complicated for the department to answer. We have been given an indication that we will receive an answer on Wednesday, but the budget is being discussed today, and it is impossible to interpret this in any way other than that the majority parties do not have an overview of the consequences of their own budget cuts. When we talk about as much money as it's about for some people – NOK 12 000 has been mentioned, NOK 20 000 has been mentioned – it's irresponsible to beat this through with no more knowledge of what the cuts actually mean. Then, of course, our primary wish is that these cuts are not adopted today, but since the cuts were not reversed in the negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left, but became larger than late evening hours or during a Sunday in these negotiations, I expect it to be unrealistic. Therefore, SV has promoted the four proposals distributed in the hall, all of which deal with greater transparency around facts and a better process to assess this in the future. I am very pleased that there is now support, hopefully, also from the citizens to the one proposal for an opportunity to discuss this again in the Storting relatively quickly when we have a better understanding of the consequences. Then I would like to address the suggestions that SV is only about in the vote, in addition to the four proposals that have been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e859	The representative Audun Lighthouse has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e864	The red-green used private kindergartens and offers to achieve full babysitting. In the Political Quarter of the election campaign, a big-time representative and SV-leader Audun Lysbakken was challenged with questions as to why he accepted competitive child care operations. He said, I'm in for it, because it changed everyday life to many. In the Right, we want to change the daily life of older people who need care and care. They deserve a diversity of offers, innovation and innovation, which can create healthy competition. But here, unfortunately, the red-greens continue to counteract the same dynamics that they embraced in the kindergarten sector. Why does the representative Lysbakken believe that there should be a fundamental distinction between the use of private actors to take care of our children and to take care of our elderly? Does the representative not see that this contributes to making the care of the elderly an unnecessary ideological battleground, which delays good quality care?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e873	SV has never been in favour of such a fundamental distinction, and it was a little creative quoting, because what I also said in that interview, and as I say in all these contexts, was that the nursery agreement came from one thing. It was that the Right, at that time in government, did not do enough to build kindergartens, and then, I believe, we got a brilliant example of pragmatism in the Great Britain: SV and the Advance Party found together and forced the government to start building kindergartens. Of course, we would not have got the Advance Party on it if the commercial ones hadn't gotten away with it. It was a trick, because that's how we got the kindergarten reform, but that doesn't mean it wouldn't have been possible to build kindergartens in another way. SV is for private actors in the care of the elderly, but we are for the ideal actors, because we believe that the development of a commercial sector will lead to too much money being taken out of the care of the elderly and going to other things. We fear that the private ideal actors will be the losers in the long term, for example. the government's free-to-use approach model, as commercial players will take an increasing share of the tasks of private non-profit actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e880	Me and the representative Lysbakken agree that sharing rooms in a nursing home is unworthy. The previous government, of which Lysbakken was part, was unable to build enough hospitals around the municipalities, which has led to, for example, in the municipality of Haugesund people have now settled together in double rooms because you don't have sick homes enough because the previous government didn't grant enough money. This government both grants more money in grants to build more hospitals, and it has put in place a discount scheme, so that if you are placed in a double room, you have to get a discount, and it has to cost the municipality something to do. The light box has said that it is unworthy, and that it is stupid that you have such a system. How do you think it's stupid to have such a system? Isn't it right that when you don't get the offer you're entitled to, you should get a discount for it, and then it must cost the municipality something, so that you build hospitals, so that you don't have to stay in double rooms, like you do in Haugesund? I'm excited what he wants to say to the relatives in Haugesund, who are eager to hear what the Light Hill thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e885	Let me first say that I am pleased to see the representative Hoksrud come to the Chair with SV's alternative budget in hand. I think the municipality of Haugesund is a bad example of red-green paralysis, because it has been civilized in incorruptible times, I think. It goes into an important part of that story, namely, that the Progress Party has been in position in many places and has not done what is needed locally to get rid of double rooms. The problem with the double room discount is that it becomes an excuse for not removing double rooms. That's why not only SV is against that discount, but also the Pensioners' Association is. I understand that Hoksrud – despite the fact that he can find inspiration in what he has with him – does not hear so much about SV, but listen to the pensioners. They say this is a bad arrangement because it's going to legitimize double rooms and even, worst of all, make governments save some money not to abolish double rooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e894	First of all, I want to commend SV for its early effort. There is quite a consensus between the Left and the SV. So how to organise the care of the elderly. SV refers to a trust reform, which originates from a private founder in the Netherlands. They also mention a time account. In the home service in Oslo, today there is free user choice, and 30 pst. of those assigned home services, choose the private ones. Does not the representative Lightbakken and SV see that it is useful to have actors compare with to develop a good service, and not just give more time, if it might not be good enough for a get of time?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e903	It is not right that the trust reform has its origins in a company in the Netherlands. On the other hand, it has the so-called "neighbouring organisation", which is an interesting way to organise home services. Our proposal for trust reform, which is now to be tested in Oslo, originates in Copenhagen and was carried out by her, who is still Senior Care Agency in Copenhagen, Nina Thomsen from SV's Danish sister party. Having influence is important, and if free user choice means that, we're very much in favour of it. That's exactly what the trust reform and the time account are going to give: greater influence over what kind of offers you get. The problem with free user choice, as the right-hand side has done in many municipalities, is that it doesn't give that kind of influence. It gives you the right to choose which kind of company to provide services to you, but it's the same contract, the same minute decisions and the same rigid override that controls what kind of offer you get. Then there is little real freedom of choice for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e910	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e913	The main objective of the government's health policy is to create the patient's health service. The budget to be adopted by the Stortinget today continues and reinforces the shift in health and care policy. The budgetary agreement between the government and the cooperation parties ensures important efforts and strengthens others, while at the same time establishing key priorities. For the government, it is important to solve concrete challenges today while at the same time equiping Norway for the future. Norway is facing both a challenging situation. Nor is health care unaffected by the economic challenges or the refugee situation that now characterises our part of the world. Ensuring sustainability will require conversion. New ideas and better solutions are needed. We're doing a great job on the transition. We focus on work and activity, research and innovation, transport and infrastructure. We create jobs in several industries and strengthen competitiveness. In addition, we are engaged in the necessary reforms in the public sector to prepare Velferds-Norway for the future. Local government reform, police reform and changes in the labour market and in Nav. And we're doing a great job of creating the patient's health care. The government has provided an overall innovation in large parts of the sector. We have started the introduction of free treatment options. We have submitted a national health and hospital plan, notification of primary health care, contingency plan for the drug field, new public health notification and notification of drug policy. The government will use all the good forces, and wants a new course for interaction and cooperation between public and private and non-profit actors. We're going to create the patient's healthcare. Through increased appropriations, clear priorities and new solutions, we show that we give priority to health and care services. Everyone must have the security that good public-funded health services are there, both individually and in the family, when they are needed. The central objective is to: reduce unnecessary and non-medically justified waiting for patients to increase capacity and enhance quality in the care sector prioritize better treatment and prevention in the field of mental health and drugs Although much is good in Norwegian healthcare, we also have challenges. International comparisons often show that although we have good results from treatment, there are too many who wait unnecessarily long. The Government implements several measures to help reduce waiting times together. We are increasing patient treatment appropriations, hospitals are allowed to further increase patient treatment if they have capacity and finances for it, we have introduced a programme of cancer packages, and we have started the introduction of free treatment options. The reform will help reduce waiting times, increase patient freedom of choice and stimulate public hospitals to become more effective. The next year will facilitate a growth in patient treatment of 2.5 pst. The government has thus facilitated a higher growth in patient treatment in our three budgets compared to what the red-green government has adopted through its eight. That's what results are. Waits go down. In the second tertiary this year, the average waiting time for all disciplines was 67 days, which is a decrease of two days compared to the same period in 2014. The waiting time for patients in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment has been reduced by a total of 13 days compared to the same period in 2014. The proportion of time-limit breaks has been reduced by one third in one year. It is at a level of waiting times that has not been lower since 2005. This means that we're about to reverse the entire wait-time increase of the last government that led to patients. The influx of asylum seekers could mean an increased need for specialist health services, in addition to what was estimated in the draft budget. Asylum seekers are entitled to health care. Although it may challenge work to reduce waiting times further, we will provide good health care to all those who need it. Although it is most important for each patient to wait, it is nevertheless gratifying that almost 25 000 fewer patients are now waiting for treatment, which is a reduction of more than 9 pst. last year. The fact that there is a reduction in waiting time, in particular for Ruspacers, underlines that this is a priority field. Our goal is that everyone should be sure that good care services are there for them when they need it, or their closest need it. Then we must have well-developed services, with skilled and competent employees. In order to improve the quality, capacity and choice of care services, the government has proposed a total net increase of 640 million. kr in 2016. Some 2,500 lucky day care centres and 1200 day activities are provided for residents with dementia. Following the government’s decision to significantly increase the grant share in 2014, the full commitment framework of 2500 seats was used in 2014. The results in 2015 are also good. This is positive. It is also proposed that 156 million be allocated. kr for State funding of care services and an additional 205 million. kr for the rights attaching of user-controlled personal assistance to persons under 67 years of age with high and long-term needs – a total of 0,5 billion. kr next year. The rights attaching of BPA was a big victory, not primarily for the government and cooperation parties, who have fought for a long time for this, but for all the users who are now experiencing an offer where one gets help to master and gain more power over one's own everyday life. It's also suggested to grant under 1.2 billion. kr for the follow-up to the Action in Competence Plan 2020 in 2016. For too long, patients with drug problems and mental problems have not experienced the help they need. The offer has not been good enough, either in the municipalities or in the specialist health service. The government will step up efforts so that people with drug problems or mental problems get better help. That is why we have recently presented an escalating plan for the drug field, as part of the government's cooperation agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, with a total framework of 2.4 billion. kr over the next five years. The capacity and quality of treatment provision shall be strengthened and housing, work and activity of drug addicts shall be prioritised. 400 million. the growth of municipal free income next year is justified by increased investment in the drug field. In addition, 80 million is proposed. kr for concrete bets in the field. Health and care services for children and young people are an important area of government and cooperation. That is why we have proposed a further 200 million more health and education services next year. kr through the free income of municipalities, which shows that this is a lasting investment. In addition, the government parties and the cooperation parties agreed in the budget agreement to earmark an additional 100 million. kr to increase the staffing of health centre and school health services. The earmarked funds are now being introduced as a reward scheme, and could be allocated to municipalities that can demonstrate that the growth justified for the purpose has been used in health and school health services. The scheme will enable municipalities that will invest even more heavily than the funds available to them, to realise their ambitions. In the budget, we simplify and strengthen the grant for recruiting psychologists in the municipalities by 45 million. kr. This will facilitate 150 new psychologist’s projects in the municipalities in 2016. Today we adopt a budget that helps to both renew and improve healthcare. It's a budget that puts the patient's needs in the center, as the government does in everything we do in the health field. In government policy and in this budget, we are doing two important things: we are showing the willingness to renew and prioritize actions that develop and equip healthcare to meet the needs of the future, while making important changes that address the needs of patients and users today. Together with the cooperation parties, we show that the health field is being strengthened, and that we prioritise shorter waiting times, capacity and quality in care, and not least a boost for drug and mental health. I am proud that today we will adopt a budget that facilitates the strengthening of these main lines: that addicts are given more rapid treatment and freedom of choice, that young people struggling with heavy thoughts can more easily get help in the municipality that more hospitals can be built, so that when you or one of you need it, it is better capacity in the municipality that employees who go to work in the municipality feel that they are given the professional development they need to be able to treat more patients, so that fewer people wait unnecessarily long for necessary treatment. All of this is in the process of creating the patient's healthcare, and we're in the process of doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1013	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1017	The Council of State reports on a budget that is large and in many areas good. But in the case of hospitals, the Council of State does not meet its own expectations. There is control of the economy in hospitals now – it was not when we took the government offices ten years ago. That's why the appropriations were greatly increased, and we also promised to increase the appropriations further, 12 billion. kr over this period. And so did the councillor, Höie, in another role. We have delivered in our alternative budgets, and when we call for the same deliveries from the government councils and the government parties, we often get the answer to the Svein Fleet from the financial debate, which our fiscal spokesperson has answered many times before. Why has the government and the council not lived up to their promises to the hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1024	First of all, it was not the case that hospitals experienced some strong growth after the red-green government took over in 2005. On the contrary, one experienced very tight budgets, in reality a zero growth. On the other hand, hospitals have seen a rather marked increase in the appropriations since the Right-wing Party government took over, where in our – now three – budgets we have committed to a higher growth in patient treatment than the Red-Green government has been able to achieve over eight years. I think what's important, and what we're going to measure first and foremost – and there I disagree with the Workers' Party's spokesperson, who says that we just have to measure on promises and on how much money we give – are the results, the results for the patients who need health care help. And the results speak for themselves, the waiting time goes down, the number of patients waiting to go down, and the growth in patient treatment was twice as high in our first year as it was in the last year of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1029	It is easy to agree with the Council of State that what you actually deliver is to be measured, but now it's the government's own promises I refer to. In this way, you might expect that you had a way to relate to them. I heard the Council of State in their speech talk a lot about the situation we're in financially, that there's going to be other times in the future. It is also easy to agree with the Council of State on that. But is it that the requirement to convert into other economic frameworks is the reason why you don't follow the pace you promised yourself, in 12 billion? kr in the four-year period? Is it that you're still saying that when you're done with this period, you should have strengthened this to that extent?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1036	As I said, we have followed up our promise with a strong commitment and growth in patient care. It provides results for patients in the form of reduced waiting times, in the form of more people getting help, and fewer patients waiting in the queue. It's the most important thing. At the same time, we strengthen the hospitals' economy, and we see that there are record investments in hospitals in both buildings and ICT. We want to make sure that the money is spent as wisely as possible. That is why we have also removed the activity gap for hospitals, so that they can use available capacity where they find new solutions and better ideas. In order to be treated more patients, they should not be stopped by having an upper limit on how many patients you can treat, as one had when the Workers' Party ruled.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1041	The Council of State is very much committed to raising the areas of drugs and mental health, and a drug plan – 2.4 billion has been promoted. kr for the next five years. Before the weekend, there was a proposal from the Left to move the sale of alcohol – between 4.7 and 7.0 pst. – from the Wine Monopoly and out to the store. We know that increased availability gives increased consumption. What does the Council of State think about a proposal to move the sale of beer, and probably other types of alcohol, from the Vinmonopolet — which is an important part of Norwegian alcohol policy — and to go to the shops? And what are the consequences that the Council of State has for consumption, and therefore for health?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1046	I deal with the cooperation agreement that the government parties have with the Christian People's Party and the Left. It is quite clear that the main lines of the alcohol policy are fixed. This means that we have to have a high level of fees, we have to have a monopoly on wine, we have to have a ban on advertising, and we have to have regulated selling and donating times. I will, of course, reply to the Storting if the committee sends the proposal to my opinion, but I fully agree with what the representative says, this proposal could challenge the wine monopoly significantly. It will not be possible to distinguish between beer and other types of alcohol. This means that it will also increase the possibility of e.g.: selling alcohol-based alcohol at a store on a totally different scale from today. That is, I will not recommend such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1051	I have questions about the golden rule – not about having it, but how to practice it. St. Olav's hospital is planning a 20-million-dollar cut and psychiatry. kr. In connection with this, the director of St. Olav's hospital pronounced himself to the NRK on November 25. He asked rhetorical about cutting less in the psychiatry than in the somatic, or making sure to increase the activity without higher economic growth than in the somatic, will fulfill the golden rule. I want to ask the Council of State exactly the two things: will what the Chairman asks for be fulfilling the golden rule? I think there's a lot of other people in the business that's wondering the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1056	I'm very pleased with the representative's commitment to the Golden Rule. I had hoped that the engagement was equivalent when her own government removed it. But there is no doubt that the golden rule has worked for the drug field. There I believe that the rule has been followed up. As far as mental health is concerned, I wish the results were better. All the proposals to which the representative refers are proposals in the internal budgetary process of the various health establishments, which have not adopted their budgets. I have recently been in contact with all health regions and have given clear notice that they have a task of ensuring that the health companies' budgets are adopted in such a way that in 2016 they follow up the golden rule, that would be a requirement. I will also follow up the comments of the majority parties on further developing the follow-up to the golden rule in the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1061	Thanks for the answer – but I did not get an answer to my question. These were two very concrete things that were highlighted in the NRK by the director, that is, if the enterprise can cut less in the psychiatry than in the somatic state, and so fulfill the golden rule, or if the enterprise can make sure to increase the activity without higher economic growth than in the somatic state, and thus fulfill the golden rule. The fact is that very many businesses are planning to cut both in somatics and in psychiatry. That discussion -- why they do it -- we'll leave it. Then this is a real problem: is it to cut less in the psychiatry and somatic, to fulfill the golden rule? Or is it making sure that the activity increases without this increasing economic growth, following up the golden rule? I would like the Council of State to respond to this specific problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1066	The requirement for the Golden Rule is clear, it is part of the mission and will also be part of the mission in 2016. I believe that the representative understands that as the Council of State, I cannot go in and deal with the individual hospital budget, it is the directors of the hospitals who are responsible for it. But it is the health regions that are responsible for the sum of the budgets contributing to the follow-up of the Golden Rule. To further underline this, I have been in contact with all the health regions and asked them to be particularly clear on this in the phase we are in now, where the various health businesses are dealing with their budgets. That's the way I control it. We will also, in the same way that we have now, follow this clearly in the contacts we have with the health regions at all times we meet and discuss budgets. The golden rule is met in respect of the ru area. It is not adequately met in the field of mental health and will receive increased attention in the 2016 mission document.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1071	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1075	I want to start my post – as the representative Micaelsen did – by saying that there is a lot of positive about the government's health policy. In many cases, the government is based on the policies of the Stoltenberg II government and on the propositions and messages that the government provided. The public health message, the ICT message and the groundbreaking message about tomorrow's care, which came on a red-green watch, are often mentioned as the basis for government policy, and that's good. Then I also think that both the Minister of Health and the spokespersons of the government parties might be a little clearer about admitting that that is the case. I think, for example, it would have been very poor with both up-to-date and accessible health records and functional electronic patient records if the red-green government had not been the driver of this work in the last period – sometimes with great resistance from current government parties. I mentioned the news of tomorrow's care, which was dealt with in Stortinget in the spring of 2013. That message was groundbreaking, for it had the whole human being in mind in its analyses and proposals for action. It assumed that very many will be healthy and self-held long after reaching retirement age, but also that more will be affected by dementia. The Labour Party will develop a policy that takes into account the potential of the older population, while at the same time rethinking the care services to be provided by the community in terms of the organisation of services, how funding can be organised, and how we can provide more flexible housing, such as: life-cycle standard. We must not least use the opportunities we have to use welfare technologies with technical aids and solutions that can increase the quality of life and greater independence for many people. In its alternative budget, the Party has proposed a new grant scheme of 156 million. kr to welfare technology. It is good that the government has set up a national programme for the same purpose, but we were many who noticed that, among other things. The main business organisation in the health budget consultation was concerned that the roll-out of welfare technology solutions is too slow and that the financial instruments are too weak. The NHO also pointed out that the co-financing of ICT projects proposed by the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation is too poor and that the scheme must also be made available to municipalities. It is absolutely necessary to test new ideas in the care of the elderly, but I am extremely sceptical about the measures that the government is now taking, regarding both the new funding mechanism and the proposal for the legalisation of the care of the elderly which has been sent to the hearing. The type of price scheme provided for the care of the elderly is not the answer to the individual’s unique needs. A single price regime will also require more bureaucracy, instead of the money being able to go directly to care services. A single price model also facilitates more use of commercial operators, which neither provides better nor cheaper services. It is no wonder that several rapporteurs have announced that they do not want to participate and that the government should also consider strengthening the local economy. Even more incomprehensible is the proposal sent out at the hearing by the government, which calls for further legalisation of care services. The hearing responses that have now come are crystal clear, and I'll say killing. First, they state that patients — including the elderly — are already entitled to care and care according to the individual’s needs and the right to hospitalisation. Secondly, the Health Directorate, the Medical Association, the KS, the Law Association, the Care Light AS and the patient and user representatives reject the whole proposal. It is even pointed out that this will weaken the rights of the elderly rather than strengthen them. All points to the fact that the bill will create considerable uncertainty in the population as to what the right is and that such an arrangement will require a large amount of bureaucratic extra work for municipalities. In other words, it is a proposal from the government which is very little thoughtful and justified. At the bottom: It's getting a little pathetic and embarrassing to hear the Minister of Health meet criticism by presenting himself as the patient's only true knight, as he did, for example. in political quarters today, while everyone else is only concerned with the system and himself. This is neither credible nor special – let's say – statesmanly, but I would like to come back to that later in the debate. On the tap, I would like to report that the Workers' Party supports the proposals submitted by SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1094	The right considers that the specialist healthcare service should be developed in such a way as to respond more closely to the needs, values and preferences of patients. Each patient shall meet with transparency and respect and be more involved in the decisions. Most importantly, patients should not wait for treatment. Unnecessary waiting time weakens public health trust. We want to create the patient's health care system. Waiting for studies and treatment is a feeling, and it costs society expensive in the form of sick messages and lost work. The government has taken considerable steps to reduce the waiting time in the specialist health service. Strengthening hospital operating appropriations facilitates a higher activity. In three budgets, an activity growth of over 2 pst has been presented. The number from the 2nd tertial shows that the waiting time drops, and it's been down two days for all areas since the same time last year. The number of deadlines has been reduced. In particular, treatment time in drug treatment has decreased — it has actually been reduced by almost two weeks. The government is now facilitating an increase in patient treatment – as I said – to 2.5 pst., which is equivalent to 2.7 billion. kr in growth. The working party, with its alternative budget, operates with an invasion of nearly 5 billion. kr, for which it is difficult to see that they are exposed. These are containment proposals that have no effect in 2016, but later. In concrete terms, it concerns the proposal to impose VAT on financial services from 1 July 2016. It does not produce any effect throughout 2016. Politics is about more than giving money. In response to Kjersti Toppe's challenges, it's not 1 billion. kr to save the specialist health service. Politics is about courage, it's about will, and it's about power to carry out the necessary reforms. Reforms and transformations often cause noise, but later on they show that they were actually right. This reform of the government is producing results. Examples of reforms are the reintroduction of the golden rule, which deals with the continuation of the principle that drug treatment and mental health protection should have an annual growth higher than in the somatic environment. The government has a new course in cooperation between public and private actors. It contributes to diversity, innovation, efficiency and, not least, creativity. On 1 November, the rules governing the system of free choice of treatment entered into force. The reform will increase freedom of choice and reduce waiting times and help to improve the effectiveness of hospitals. The reform strengthens, first and foremost, the rights of people with drug problems and mental problems. Unfortunately, under the red-green government the queues for these patient groups grew. There is therefore a need for new solutions, and it is sad that you cannot see this. Actually, the most important thing about the reform is that patients' rights are strengthened. It seems like the Workers' Party and the Center Party are denying it. Intervention-driven funding shall contribute to the efficiency of health businesses and to the improvement of capacity utilisation. Under this financial instrument, the same type of treatment will be recorded and reported in the same way and give the same economic outcome. So you get a greater equality in Norway when it comes to funding. This also means that health businesses should become more effective and make better use of their resources. The activity stack has also been removed. If the hospital has capacity, they should be able to treat several patients. I am pleased that Kjersti Toppe mentioned that it was important to increase the capacity of the hospitals. This works. Hospitals are treating more people today. There is a contradiction to a framework funding at least made up of the Centre as a spokesperson, for which an economic model appears to be more important than patient treatment. It's the results that count, not the wishful thinking. It is patients who are expected to be taken into account, not a funding model that does not work. I myself sat under the rule of the red-green government during the period. There was no growth, it was cut. The government will ensure that more people are treated, but it will also ensure that more patients are given more rights. It is gratifying that in the event of a delay, the hospital is now obliged to inform HELFO about it. They are the ones to contact the patient with an offer of investigation or treatment elsewhere. The patient is not the one to take the initiative and explore. Many patients deal with an innumerable number of doctors and experience little continuity in treatment and dialogue with specialist health services. This government therefore has the right to consult a contact doctor. Patients with long-standing serious diseases shall now be assigned not only a coordinator to coordinate and coordinate services, but also a contact doctor. This is now the copyright attachment. In the past, the diagnosis of “cancer” was almost equivalent to death. Today, we know the need to get to the hospital quickly, have a proper diagnosis and not least get to treatment quickly. Today you can get well, thanks to new treatments and medicines. The government has therefore introduced a cycle of cancer treatment packages in order to standardise and provide the best possible treatment as soon as possible. The entire 28 diagnostics have been put into a package sequence. Reporting of package trajectories to the Norwegian patient register is a new requirement for healthcare companies. On a national basis, almost 78 pst. of the completed package sequences of the 1st tertial completed within normal time. This is joyous for patients with lung, breast, prostate, colon or rectal cancer. These are the results of government governance and business conversion. It shows that health management must be provided, not a framework finance and governance, where priority must be given to everything and no requirements must be set. There is also a need to put other diseases on the agenda. I want to mention specifically brain diseases. Brain disease affects one in three Nordics, and good diagnostics, treatment, follow-up and, not least, research are important. Therefore, in the context of the 2016 government budget, the Stortinget government is asking to assess the development of a strategy to meet the health challenges of this group. It's also a challenge for many to wait for a transplant. It is also gratifying that in 2017 the government will come back to how to increase capacity in this area. These two groups deserve to be raised. There are not so many others today than the Minister who have talked about the importance of research and innovation for quality and quality development in the health sector. The specialist healthcare service is a knowledge-intensive sector. New treatment methods depend entirely on our research and innovation. Resources for clinical research have been particularly sought by the trade unions. It is therefore gratifying that the government is proposing a national clinical treatment research programme. Modern electronic interaction is the solution for an efficient and safe healthcare service and can contribute to new innovations. The government is working well on this and has increased the allocation of technical solutions for both e-receptive and electronic communications. This is absolutely necessary if a nuclear record is to be compiled. The involvement of users in research needs to be increased. It is gratifying that the Research Council is now demanding user involvement in research. It's in line with the patient's health system. It is the patient who should be actively involved in research and in the treatment under research. The Labour Party promised that there would be 1 million more treatments in 2017 compared to 2012. That's a good ambition. Figures from the Norwegian Patient Register show that up to now there has been an increase in the number of studies and treatments of 430,000 over two years. There are 30,000 of the estimated 200 000 per year to be used to achieve the 1 million target. This shows that there are the Right who have the solutions for faster and more treatments — by using both private capacity and, in particular, by making the necessary changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1141	Today we're going to discuss how we're going to spend almost 185 billion dollars. kr on the expenditure side of the health budget. It distinguishes approx. 900 million. SEK-1.2 billion. on the draft budget under consideration. Yeah, $12 billion. Of course, kr is crazy a lot of money, but with a total budget of 185 billion. kr is not the very big money, but well under 1 pst. The budget is very offensive when we think that the expenditure in the budget has increased by over 10 billion. kr from last year to this year. It shows that the Right-Fremskrit Party government is offensive and is committed to strengthening supply in the health and care sector and addressing it all – research, development, prevention, treatment, aftercare and aftertreatment. These are important areas. That's why we spend a lot of money on it. We see in particular that the number that gets dementia is increasing. Unfortunately, it also turns out that dementia affects younger and younger people. I am therefore very pleased that the Progress Party, together with the Cooperation Party Right, will continue the escalation in dementia care, and that in 2016 it will be allocated 71,3 million. NOK 1200 to 1200 new places. This shows that government rates and follow-up of Demen plan 2020. In addition, the plan includes several important new measures, the legalisation of the 2020 daily activity offer, the development of post-diagnosis systematic follow-up models, the development of user schools for people with dementia, the development of dementia training packages for different sectors of society — as well as many more actions in the plan. As an elderly spokesperson, I have visited many municipalities and institutions around Norway. In very many municipalities, those who need care get a very good offer. That doesn't mean there's no need out there. The needs are great, and many do not receive the treatment and offer they need. I was therefore very pleased that the government has sent the individual's right to hospitalization when you need it, and that this is now being clarified even more clearly to the municipalities, while at the same time getting the doctor to say more in relation to the needs of the users. I am therefore very surprised that the Workers' Party writes in a comment in the setting that they believe that the individual rights attaching to the nursing home place will undermine the individual's desire to live at home. This can't be anything but gossip and bullshit. I think it's high time for the Workers' Party representatives to take a walk into the real world and see how things stand out there. Because it's not just that you want it, you get a place to stay in the hospital. No, there are many people in line who don't have enough room, because there are not enough sick places. With these attitudes, it is also not difficult to understand that in the last eight years enough sick homes have been built, the Workers' Party has been overthrown. In fact, parents go to a demonstration to be allowed to stay in a nursing home, because you are both insecure and need a health home place – like Asbjørn in Åsnes. This is completely unworthy, and fortunately, the County Council reversed the decision of the municipality that he would not be able to fit in. Several other things also show that it is very important to legislate for justice – not as the Workers' Party will, which is perceived to be totally on the road in the population, when they do not want to participate in the legalisation of the right to a sick home. I am very pleased that we are now in the process of introducing a state pilot scheme for the financing of care for the elderly. It's going to mean that up to 20 municipalities join the experiment. They're going to be innovative and see the possibilities. They are going to get more money for care for the elderly, and not less, as I feel some local politicians from some parties have run around and talked about in connection with this scheme. This is a big deal, which will mean millions of dollars more for the population, for the elderly in the municipalities that are involved. To the Lysbakken and the question I asked here instead: the problem was not that there were not enough sick homes in Haugesund. The problem was that with the new regime that took over in the autumn, it was not willing to grant money so that the hospitals were maintained. The challenge is that you don't want to spend money. That's why you put people in double rooms. It has consequences for the users. Then we think it is okay that the municipalities have to pay, if they do not want to give the residents a real offer. I hope the Lighthouse agrees with me that we will follow up, so that we can make sure that you open the hospital areas you have. The sad thing is that the new Haugesund political majority chose not to participate in the trial, which would probably give them $25 million. kr extra in 2016, 2017 and 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1158	The President will point out that all speech should be addressed to the President, and that there may be more parliamentary expression than ‘stupid and stupid’.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1161	It was refreshing to hear the previous speeches get over from motor travel to berry, it promotes at least good public health. I'm going to talk about mental health problems, because it's important for this room and for the budget we're adopting today. According to the Institute of Public Health and the Directorate of Health, these are challenges that cost our society huge sums, almost as much as the framework for the budget we will adopt later today. It's going to be almost 40 pst. of expenditure on disability benefits and 40 pst. the cost of long-term sick leave. These are numbers and people behind the numbers that we have to imagine every time we treat the health budget, and not just then, but really all the time. There are so many challenges faced by 260 young people that care is affected, and almost 70,000 young people suffer from mental disorders that require treatment in the Norwegian public health service. The aim of the Workers' Party is to provide comprehensive and coordinated assistance to those who are struggling with mental health problems. This applies regardless of who is responsible for the treatment and the diagnosis the patient has. We must always remember that no human being, when referred to as patients in our healthcare, is diagnosis. They're human. The treatment that patients with mental health disorders receive in our hospitals and in our municipalities must take care of people, and not just the diagnosis. The Labour Party believes that Norwegian patients deserve a medical-professional offer in line with the very best in the world, and we invest in the community hospital. Strong public hospitals are essential to ensure good health care for everyone in a long-term country, and we have lived in the belief that this objective is also shared with the government, and especially with the Right Government Party, and that they stood by their promises to strengthen the hospital budgets in line with their election promises. Unfortunately, it doesn't look like that. The government also reintroduced the so-called golden rule, the promise that efforts in the field of drugs and mental health should be greater than the increase in somatic health, but the feedback from hospitals across the country shows a different reality than the golden rule describes. In the newspaper last Wednesday, we read that Oslo University Hospital must cut off the psychiatry offer. The management of the country’s largest hospital will cut off the treatment supply to vulnerable groups in psychiatry, addiction and drug addiction, despite the fact that the Minister of Health wants to lift this field. The reports of the same come from almost all over the country. St. Olav's hospital in Trondheim is mentioned by others in the debate. Why do you cut the psychiatry when it's this field the Minister of Health and also the Prime Minister have actually said that they want to lift the most? The answer is almost as simple as it is: well, because the golden rule can only be fulfilled through a proper funding of our hospitals. And somaticism, which is financed more than psychiatry, makes it a challenge for health businesses to reduce their activity in order to balance budgets. We assume that the government and the Council of State know and understand these mechanisms. Measured against record oil spending, the needs of the sector and the government's own promises, the government has not proposed the hospital budget we could expect. It has to be allowed to point out that the distance to their own 12 billion promises. to hospitals with this draft budget has increased. Unlike the government, the Workers' Party has delivered our promises to the hospitals. For 2016, the Workers' Party proposes once again to strengthen the hospital budget in addition to what the government parties, with their partners, will achieve. The working party will invest in the community hospital. And even though hospitals are not everything in health policy, where the population feels the need to get the most accurate help and the best help.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1176	Norway has achieved good treatment results in cancer, myocardial infarction and stroke. That's the result of years of research efforts, empowerment and how we organise our services. Although we are a small country and cannot be the best at everything and research on everything, Norway, as we have such a strong provision of public health services, has the opportunity to prioritise areas that the pharmaceutical industry does not do, and also to cooperate with other countries. This applies not least to the development of new antibiotics and also to serious diseases such as MS. Patients with the most serious form of MS have, on average, a health loss over a lifetime of more than 40 years, and there are very many young people affected. MS causes serious visual disturbances, balance problems, fatigue and severe pain. Stem cell treatment has produced promising results. More than 50 patients have chosen to travel abroad for treatment. In Norway, Haukeland Hospital has been commissioned to look at the possibility of similar treatment in this country. They cooperate closely with the strongest scientific and research environments. This year, six patients have been treated there, and that's good results. It is quite right, as the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen had in mind, that the Knowledge Centre presented its report in the autumn and thought that a more systematic research needs to be carried out before this could become a firm offer in Norway. That's right – we still need research, but the report doesn't come until 2021. Why can’t Norway continue to be part of the research programme and increase capacity beyond six people? This has been the basis of the Workers' Party when we want to increase the budget for stem cell research in Norway by 20 million. kr for the coming year. It also appears that this type of treatment can also provide positive results for other serious diagnoses for which we do not currently have a good enough treatment provision. In addition, the Labour Party increases the hospital research framework by 16.5 million. kr, specifically directed towards personalised medicine. We have good results in many areas of health, but we've also done a lot of work. I think that's a good statement. Full-time culture is one of the areas that I think it is absolutely essential that we, as the foremost representatives, are constantly addressing. If you're going to change cultures out there, you really have to have someone that's teasing on it all the time. It is so easy to walk in the same tracks that have always been – they with the longest service continue with their systems. New, young people come in and want full jobs. We need it to increase patient safety, but not least to make better use of resources. Communication is another area that remains in many fields, for example: police, Nav, etc., but also health. We've done a lot, we've got electronic birth records in place -- it's amazing that we haven't had it, that we've had to give birth all the time without information going to the right person and the right system. But there too we waste resources. We cannot implement the fact that patients are given more control over their own health without also getting a better understanding of what is going on, and not least that they are experiencing an overall health system where primary health services and specialist health services are linked. There's been a lot of people in the medical facility. Quite right — it is an area of enormous importance in terms of the health service we have out there, with early intervention and reducing the damage. In conclusion, I would like to address two points that have been raised in the debate. One is, as the representative Kjersti Toppe had in mind, the drug offer at Health Bergen, which according to the Official Journal of today is being reduced. They say that this is due, inter alia, to: that they have been required to buy more places from private individuals and therefore have to reduce the good offers in the public sector. We have received feedback that the drug supply has been very largely left to private people for many years, almost a hundred years. The second is that we haven't yet put quality indicators in place, so we can see how the quality of supply is. We're going to take good care of how we're going to take care of some of the weakest patients. I do not think we have yet received a response on how health businesses should respond to whether they are able to escalate this area. Is it in the number of activities or the economic framework in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1193	An overall committee points out that one of the government’s areas of activity in 2016 is to provide children’s homes with a better offer to children who are victims of abuse by providing collective hearings, medical examinations and treatment services. It's the Workers' Party very pleased. The children's houses work in a fantastic way. For us who work with them on a daily basis, I would say that they are indispensable, both in terms of the job they do in specific cases where there is a complaint, and also in terms of the job they do in guiding employees who are concerned about violence or child abuse. Children’s homes provide valuable advice and good guidance on how to deal with such concerns, and they increase knowledge of what is generally wise to do in similar situations. But also for the children's houses there is still some work to be done. When children are subjected to violence or abuse, important evidence can be ensured by the conduct of a medical examination. It is essential that this study be carried out in the context of the hearing to ensure that this is precisely an overall offer, as the Committee points out. Today, it is often the case that markings on the child’s body are not discovered until child protection places them in emergency shelters after the interview has been conducted, and even more often they are not discovered at all because they are hidden by the child’s clothes. National figures show that only 20 pst. medical examination is given by the children questioned at the children’s homes. The working party believes that this is not sustainable. The Children’s Ombudsman is among those who are concerned about the lack of social pediatric competence in hospitals, and this is pointed out as one of the reasons why violence and abuse against children is not captured. The importance of this competence in hospitals, which are not connected to a children’s home, is also highlighted. That is why the Labour Party has invested money to strengthen both hospitals and children’s homes in order to raise the number of children carrying out medical examinations. We don't want to give up until the number is considerably higher than now. The bet on raisin is another theme I want to record. It sounds so nice when the government parties boast of their commitment to the municipal work. It's good and good, it's good, but the funds aren't ear-marked. They do not mention that the local economy otherwise does not extend, so that these funds are not left alone and are not used for their purpose. When the municipalities are asked to choose between cutting existing offers or betting on new offers, they choose of course the first. Then it doesn't matter to local politicians what the government and we at Stortinget have with the money. The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, invited the representatives of the Workers' Party into the real world. I want to return the invitation. It's great with bets, but you can't give with one hand at the same time you take with the other. Then it goes wrong. It also does when you say to prevent drug dependence, but it facilitates the opposite. The Progress Party has an alcohol policy that in no way takes into account how much state regulation has to say for people’s alcohol consumption. All research suggests that what has to be said most for people’s alcohol consumption is just availability and price. What does the Progress Party want? Well, they want to lower the alcohol prices, expand the tipping times and have wine in the shops. Even I realize that the Progress Party does not get through everything in government, all the time they do not have a majority alone in the Storting. But it is worrying that they have managed to change the tax-free system. After it was changed, the sale in Norwegian wine monopoly has decreased. In isolation, this could have been good, but in the context of the tax-free system, it is not at all. Giving people more alcohol for money is not preventing alcohol problems; it's the opposite of making new ones. It is sad that the Progress Party does not take on the challenges that alcohol presents to many people in Norway, but is hiding behind the fact that it is about the freedom of the individual. This government has liberalized its alcohol policy. It's sad, because when more people drink more, there will be more people going into abuse. Then more people are affected, whether they're family, work or community. The attitude of the working party is that it is easier to prevent than to repair. It's just a shame that those who run the country don't share this perception about alcohol policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1214	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1217	I'll talk about one allocation in the budget, and it might seem a little odd in a budget with such a large amount. But the HUNT survey in the Nord-Trundelag is worth speaking time. Because if we're going to work to re-distribute fairly and make new progress in health and care, it requires that we get into what the social physician calls health conditions: work, education, housing, nutrition, environment, self-respect, power and belonging, that we research more with the aim of solving tomorrow's health challenges, and that we also contribute as a nation to solving global health challenges. Therefore, it is very gratifying that this setting together gives HUNT 4 the first sub-allocation for a new round of the Nord-Trøndelag Health Study, one of the largest population studies of health data collected over four decades. The HUNT data provide unique opportunities for knowledge of health and for societal planning and input into health policy priorities. Here are the data collected through three surveys – HUNT 1, which was in the mid-1980s, HUNT 2, which was in the mid-1990s, HUNT 3, which was in 2006 – and thus in 2017 HUNT 4. Altogether, 120000 people have agreed that identified health information may be made available for approved research projects and nearly 80000 have submitted blood samples for which research can be undertaken. I'm one of them, and I'm very proud of it. It makes HUNT a significant collection of health data and biological material also in international contexts, and the HUNT material is used by very many researchers within very many themes and disciplines. HUNT’s priority is, among other things, the large range of health information collected for each participant, the large number of participants and that the population has been followed by repeated observations over a period of 20 years. This makes the research potential very large and very powerful, and it provides opportunities for researchers in many different medical fields and also other disciplines to generate new knowledge. Some of the most researched areas are heritage and environment, society and health, mental health, age diseases, youth health, obesity, diabetes — yes, this whole panorama we have to look into in order to meet tomorrow’s health challenges and health in a global perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1228	Norway is in its most challenging situation in several decades. The 2016 budget therefore places the emphasis on work, activity and conversion. In addition, social security is strengthened, and important health and care interventions are taken. The Public Health Communication ‘Mastering and Opportunities’, which we dealt with in the summer, focused in particular on the following three areas: mental health should become as important as physical health in public health work an active and good life in old age that healthy choices must be made simpler and more natural for all I am pleased that the government in the budget is following up the public health communication and is continuing the commitment to mental health both in the municipalities and in the specialist health service, and that the government is continuing the important work of taking children and young people seriously by strengthening the prevention work of children and young people in the field of mental health and drugs. Local authorities are now better placed to provide good health services in these areas. This is demonstrated, inter alia, by: through the transfer of the recruitment grant to the establishment of 150 new psychologist’s posts in the municipalities. The support for mental health in schools and the strengthening of health and school health services continues. The commitment to rapid mental health care is continued for testing and evaluation, and psychologists are now allowed to refer to mental health protection and drug treatment. There will also be a statutory obligation to have psychological competence in the municipalities. The basis for good and lifelong health is already laid in the paediatric population. Therefore, continuing the important efforts of the government to strengthen healthcare and school health services is very important to prevent mental illness at an early age. Looking at the total budgets for 2014, 2015 and 2016, the free revenues of municipalities for health and school health services have increased by a total of 677.7 million. kr. In the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, an additional 100 million was added. kr in earmarked funds for health and school health services, funds that can now be applied to by municipalities if they wish to invest in addition to what they have already received in free money. I also look forward to the government coming, as promised, to the Stortinget with its own youth health strategy which will well follow up the important work already under way to strengthen preventive health work among children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1260	Two weeks ago, there was a report on how health companies and municipalities work with children as relatives after the change in the law came in 2010. The amendment would ensure child care professionals in specialist health care and better information for children with parents receiving treatment in somatic, mental or drug treatment. It is sad to see that the report establishes what you were afraid of – the law has not been enough, the law is not followed, and the children are not guaranteed the offer they need. Children who grow up with parents who are mentally ill or who have a drug problem are more vulnerable than other children to having problems even as adults. These children experience many risk factors associated with this, and very few have enough of the protection factors needed to cope. These children are particularly dependent on the law to capture their needs, and right now the law and the guidelines say too much ‘should’ and ‘may’, where it should be said ‘should’ and ‘must’. There is too much up to each municipality and health care provider how they will give priority to this work. The children’s representative says to the evening post that it is sounding out well with 1,400 child-responsors, but then they have to be given time and competence to discharge this responsibility. This is supported by the Workers' Party of the Children's Ombudsman. There are some minor measures in this budget that support a work around children as relatives, but there is a need for structural intervention to get work done on the right track. The report highlights management and training, including: Children who are dependent are also too small a priority area for health professionals. The report shows that 15 pst. by the children tell them that they help their sick parents with their personal care tasks, such as dressing up and putting on their own clothes. Then there's something that fails, and we are. The report also shows that the entire 71 pst. by the health professionals involved in the study, had not spoken to the children of any of their patients at all in the last two months. We can't have it like that. Frid Hansen is employed as a position manager at the Borgestadklinikken, and I will describe her as a leading woman in this field. She points out the importance of talking to the children about parental drug abuse, not only to remove shame and guilt, as well as to generalise the children's feelings, but also to bring out their perspective. In fact, she claims – and I agree with her – that it is good prevention that children share their perspective. And good prevention -- I think it's more than the Workers' Party that's in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1267	This country has a powerful government. This country has a government that creates the patient’s health care, by facilitating better services, increased treatment and free choice of treatment. This country simply has a Right Party government that delivers in the field of health. Health is an inexhaustible field – it is large, complex and difficult. This is precisely why it is so important to have transparency, knowledge and enforcement in order to make health services even better, for the benefit of users. There will always be major health challenges. Desires and demands for the very best treatment will be continuously promoted, and provide expectations that the department and big business will deliver policies that materialise through an increasingly better health provision. The government budget provides for an activity increase of about 1 %. 2.5 pst., which corresponds to approx. 2.7 B.C.E. kr – a high growth compared to previous years. This shows that the government pays attention to and prioritizes both hospitals and patients. General growth includes activity in public hospitals, free treatment choices and purchases from private actors. It includes treatment in somatics, mental health protection, drugs and rehabilitation. And of course, we continue the golden rule that says that mental health and care should have at least the same size, or greater, growth as the somatic – which the red-greens did not meet. For the Advancement Party, it is important to preserve the local hospitals, even though we recognize that not all hospitals can operate with everything. It is gratifying that the new national health and hospital plan does not lead to the closure of a single hospital. In addition, we need to strengthen prehospital services. For example, a well-developed ambulance service helps to save lives in a long-range country with large distances and meteorological differences that give rise to different challenges in different places. Fortunately, today's ambulances are almost a hospital on wheels, serving as far more than just the transportation of the sick or injured. Today's government reduces health cows. Waiting time has to be down - freedom of choice up. This is done by using a variety of actors in the public and private sectors. In sum, the combination of reforms and appropriations shows that the government prioritises increased treatment and reduced waiting times in the specialist healthcare service, and we also see that this results for patients in line with the objectives. Nevertheless, some still wait a long time for treatment, even if private operators have free capacity. Therefore, government and cooperation parties point to the need for even better cooperation between public and private to meet this challenge. The aim of the Progress Party is also to deliver in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1280	Before the big shot, we often heard the saying "humans, not billions" from the right. Then the choice came, and the attention was shifted to people with billions. Before the elections, we heard about less bureaucracy and more treatment – now the government spends tens of millions only on the bureaucracy of a limited free choice system. Before the elections, we heard about ‘more individual and less system’ – now norms are being introduced. It's a system that has system thinking that's far from putting the individual in the center. It is a table that shows how long you can be sick from your diagnosis, a system that completely forgets that you are an individual – that the human body is not a machine that can be repaired with a specific service interval. The norm may be too short for someone and too long for others. In addition, the Nav system has to spend almost 15 million. kr to re-assessment after six months, to check that the norm is in place. To the norm, it's 35 million. In order to make sick people fit into a norm — a standard. The result will be more system and less individualization. In today's debate we have heard a lot about the golden rule, but in the psychiatry of the Hospital Inland, the annual cut is carried out with tens of millions of dollars. So we don't fully understand how the government is betting on psychiatry. Even the government statement states that the growth of psychiatry must be greater than in the somatic environment. Here health south-east must have been exempted from the rule. Now we hear that the Council of State has talked to the RHFs, so I expect the Hospital Inland is going to revise its budgets, after they have heard from the Council of State. If not, the Hospital Inland is exempt from the rule. In the Inland Hospital, we have several local medical centres – new constructions have been put into use at both Feners and Otta, and patients can receive treatment in the community. It's good for patients, it reduces transport costs, it's climate friendly, and the pressure gets less in hospitals. But we find no mention of it in the state budget, and that's a shame, because in the Hospital of the Inland are the long distances. This also applies to the prehospital services and air ambulance is a good offer. For us, it is incomprehensible that not all domestic representatives support the red-green proposal to have a comprehensive investigation on the dimensioning and development of the air ambulance. The Inland Hospital has many holes that we should get close to that investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1289	In my home country, Telemark, young people in the Telemark study show that almost half of the girls in the last week have been very worried and felt that everything is a bore. The 2014 figures show that a surprisingly high proportion of students aged 14 to 16 have depressive symptoms. 70,000 children and young people suffer from mental disorders requiring treatment. Furthermore, we know that nearly half of us in life are going to experience some kind of mental health disorder. Statistically, it'll be either me or you. In the fall I have seen the strong documentary “Ida’s Diary”. It takes Ida Storm's life for granted as mentally ill. Ida wants the school to take greater responsibility for training in mental health. I very much agree with Ida. While physical activity and nutrition have been central to the teaching of subjects such as food and health and exercise for many years, mental health has been voiced through diffuse objectives in the curriculum. I am therefore proud that the Workers' Party has put forward proposals to integrate a greater degree of knowledge of mental health into the school's subjects, so that students receive comprehensive training on the physical and mental health of the body, because we know that knowledge and awareness of their own mental health are prejudicial. School health services play an important role in getting students who experience everyday life as a little difficult on the right track. More health sisters in school are a good investment. A short time ago, Norwegian Nurses' Association presented a comprehensive study of the presence of health sisters in school. It shows that only 1.4 pst. of the country’s schools, health sisters are present every day. The study reaffirms that there is a high distance from the recommended minimum standard to actual school attendance. We have to take this seriously. I'm glad that several parties in this room agree that the school health service needs to be strengthened, but it doesn't help much that we agree, if there isn't a change in the individual municipality, in the individual school, for the individual student. It is therefore more important than now for us to designate the transfers to the school health service. ‘School cannot solve all societal challenges’ said Minister of Knowledge Torbjørn Røe Isaksen when young people’s mental health was on the agenda earlier this autumn. On a general basis, I agree, but some things are more important than others. Attention, knowledge and awareness of mental health are definitely some of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1300	The government aims to make physical activity a natural part of the central nursery and school accumulators. Recreational and community activities shall be provided both for organised and spontaneous play and for physical development. In order to find good models, the government has launched a three-year trial with extended time to exercise at 30 secondary schools. At the same time, it is positive that the media regularly point out that schools and kindergartens have good on-going projects in both physical activity and healthy diets. I have previously told from this pulpit about Spjelkavik kindergarten, which has physical activity as a field of activity – the school can show good results using physical activity in learning. On December 7th, the title of the Sunnmørspost was: “Meet with multiplication tables in the gym.” The fifth grade at Stordal school showed how they combined mats and gyms. The next day, I read in the same newspaper, «Pours of money». The project on food education for kindergarten and school children under the direction of the Slippfiskakademie in Ålesund received a gift check of DKK 400,000 from the Mutual Foundation. Children and young people are invited to become acquainted with food culture in their own country, learn about raw materials and participate in making good and healthy food. I visited the place earlier this year with the Minister of Fisheries, and we got together to experience an SFO class of fish burgers that they served us, along with a delicious vegetable salad. With the projects, they also go out as ‘coke on wheels’ to kindergartens, where children learn about the food on its way from fjord or soil to table. This creates identity in traditional food culture, and it contributes to better health through healthy diets. It is positive that several kindergartens, schools and municipalities have started different meal arrangements with different forms of funding, and that more and more schools have good projects on physical activity and learning. This is something that the government will follow up. While the National Centre for Food, Health and Physical Activity is tasked with collecting and disseminating experiences with such good examples and developing models of how kindergartens and schools can continue to work to ensure physical activity and increased emphasis on good nutrition, governments are now actively working, together with the food industry, to find good solutions to reduce the intake of salt, sugar and saturated fat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1315	In a health debate, naturally enough elderly care is a major part of the debate. I come from a city where there is a slight difference between the Right which is in Parliament and the Right which is in the city. In the city council, we could hear the former councillor for Right Nina Wikan say that you can't just stroll around with hospitals, when the Labour Party in the budget proposed to build more hospitals because you weren't willing to join the Right and the Advance Party's tax cuts locally in the municipality. The right has proposed a social alarm tax, but when it comes to electoral year, it is not mentioned in the budgets – the last mentioned by the rapporteur candidate of the Progress Party in Trondheim. The right refers to the care of the elderly in words and with great visions without concrete action, and it is not that way in the municipalities – in the real world, to which the representatives have referred – that care for the elderly is not being taken. In Trondheim, you should have a hospitalization within six weeks, if not an anomaly. If you go back and look at the number of deviations, it was zero. There were as many aberrations as on a blank sheet, and that's because you're betting on building hospitals, because you closed unwanted double rooms in 2011, and because you're betting school and care for the elderly over tax cuts – this is versus the Oslo City Council, consisting of the Progress Party, which cut hundreds of sick homes. The main challenge in the care of the elderly is to get enough people to work, that nurses and caregivers will arrive at the right time, whether they are in home-based care, such as: Oslo has built up large, whether it's in classic nursing homes or in lucky day care places. Then it's about prioritizing in the municipal budgets, that municipalities can afford to have enough people at work, and that you don't have to choose between the teacher's college and more nurses. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, for example, Trondheim would receive 100 million. kr more than with the current Right Party Government. Now the Christian People's Party and the Left must boast that they were able to increase the negotiations, but that is far from enough. If you want to have a quality promise, you have to bet on the regular care, the caregivers who get to do their job well in the entire job, and enough care for the job, so that you do not work in the heel or work in the sick. We have major challenges in municipalities in providing good enough help, and what you need most is drag help and not tax cuts and social cuts to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1324	In this article, I would like to say a little about the rehabilitation sector, which has been little highlighted in the debate. A structural change is taking place there too, and some municipalities and health businesses are fighting a little about who is going to offer what offers. As an example, I will start in Eastfold. A new hospital in Eastfold is now in operation. It's cost $6.5 billion. kr, but it is without a rehabilitation unit. The population of Eastfold – it is documented – needs more rehabilitation than the population of Norway, while they are offered less than the population. The budgetary agreement has as one result the implementation of a pilot in just Eastfold. The health centre in Ashim, owned by seven municipalities in Inner Eastfold, has a desire to do a pilot in rehabilitation, especially everyday rehabilitation, to selected patient groups. At the Hospital of Askim they already have a good offer of immediate help to patients, they have dialysis facilities there, and the medical officer is also organized there, so they have a good starting point. It is an interesting project, because in the future many municipalities have to cooperate, have to write agreements, both between municipalities and with specialised rehabilitation hospitals, such as Sunnaas. We have to get more of this, and I was in my lead in innovation. From 2020, Ergoterapets will become part of the primary health team in the municipalities. The Hagen committee pointed out in 2011 that we have to hire three times as many ergot therapists in the municipalities to get to the innovation we want. Here's the obvious context. We need to do more in this area in the future, both in the municipalities and in the specialist health service. Then I have to take a tour of the representative Rigmor Aasrud, who in his post sent a greeting to the undersigned related to the investigation of air ambulances in the interior. Firstly, the Left has put in its own proposal, a Document 8 proposal, on a dream promise for emergency medicine, psychiatry and regional health innovation. The working party can look into it. We will discuss the national health and hospital plan for winter. Otherwise health is south-east and the Hospital Inland is free to perform prehospital services today. That authority need not be adopted by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1339	The government, like us in the Workers' Party, knows what's the biggest challenge in the health sector in the years to come, namely that we're going to have a shortage of health professionals. It is strange that privatisation and commercialisation at the very top end of the response chain, namely the specialist healthcare service, can be the solution – when we know that it is in the municipalities that we will have the greatest need for services. That's why I have to go back to free treatment. In spite of massively negative reception, it seems that the Council of State and the government still have doubts that this scheme should be rolled out widely. And yes, it may well be that there is a system that is going to change the power conditions in Health-Norway, but not by moving power from the system to the patients – I think it's going to be from the public health service, which has its mission from elected politicians, to commercial actors who have the mission from their private owners. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has sent a proposal for a regulation on free choice of treatment to be consulted, and once again feedback is negative. I want to quote from the Norwegian Association for General Medicine. Listen to this: «The document submitted is, with its 86 pages, both verbatim and at the same time regrettablely unsubstantiated. The proposal for a regulation shows a lack of understanding of the conduct of the investigation and treatment of the disease in the rule.’ This is a statement that trumps most I've seen of negative feedback on hearing suggestions. In sum, professionals and heavy professional environments in Health-Norway, as well as the patient and user representatives, both authorisation system, follow-up and referral practices in free choice of treatment are considered to be incomplete and directly poor. Some say directly that the result may be overdiagnosis and overtreatment, and all warn that the quality of the treatment given may be ‘secondary goods’ and a challenge to patient safety. At least then the health minister has to ask himself: is this the patient’s healthcare? Listen to the knowledge. Then I want to say something about waiting times. Yeah, it's absolutely right that the waiting times go down, and that's very good. But they've gone down since 2010. It's just to go in and look at the Norwegian patient register, and then you see the exact same trend in these years – the last years on the red-green watch and now. 2010 is not random, because it was when we got the economy right after taking over a bankruptcy residence in 2005. And the ceiling for treatment was the bourgeois government that put in place, because there was no control over the economy. A cross-specialised drug treatment and psychiatry that has the same decline in waiting times from 2011 to 2012 as it has been in the last year is very good, and I think we should stand together to rejoice that we get the waiting times down. But it hasn't just happened to guard this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1361	The representative Grung was concerned with quality indicators in the treatment, and so is the Christian People's Party. This must apply to both public health and private ideal providers. Many NPISHs do a formidable job, especially for Norwegian Ruspacers. They have good competence, quality and capacity, and they make good use of the resources. Many volunteers also use their leisure time to improve the treatment around patients. The Gospel Center was honored in the magazine Capital precisely because they spent the most money on patient treatment and patients want it. The Christian People’s Party is therefore happy to have reached 8 million. kr back to the Gospel Center, because they were actually taken from something in the 2000s. It's also joyous, seems the Christian People's Party, that the Gate Hospital in Oslo is finally allowed to open a new department. The street hospital must today say no to every third user who wants to go there. The street hospital provides treatment, care and care for the heaviest drug users with a complex form of disease. I am also pleased that this will come to Bergen in the long term. These are people who usually hesitate to be admitted to ordinary hospitals. They experience being kept competent, unique roughness, and not least knowledge of the Gate Hospital. The Christian People's Party is pleased that, as a result of the budgetary agreement, there is an agreement to strengthen a number of voluntary and non-profit organisations that provide services of high quality and good competence, services that we have to take care of and use. Then, as a public body, we must also be clear that we should not abuse the trust of the ideals or crush them by means that make them not actually able to operate with good quality, as the Borgestadklinik now experiences. Then we do so that we finally delete non-profit institutions that have worked qualitatively with care for years and have great competence. Those who at last get hit, we're not on the Storting, but the patients who lose the place that's been useful to them to get out of the drug abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1370	The representative Kristin Örmen Johnsen called me several times in his post. She devalued in a way the central party's priority of a hospital billion that he wouldn't have the effect because there are reforms hospitals now need - and not money. This is a bit provocative to listen to those who work in the services. We have received many messages that it is planned to be cut. As I said in my post, the managing director of Health Bergen said it is the first year in six years that they experience a real decline in their budget. When the night ambulance is removed in Granvin municipality because the enterprise will cut 10 million. kr, they do not need a reform. They need funding in 2016. I agree with Mr. Örmen Johnsen that we need to focus on brain diseases. I have to say that the Center Party has allowed 5 million. kr to a new neuroplan. We don't have to evaluate it anymore. I found it disappointing that the Council of State refused to respond to how the golden rule should be followed up. Is it to cut less to fulfill the golden rule? Is it to increase the activity without greater economic growth to fulfill the golden rule? Governments should clearly say no to both of these questions. He doesn't. I'm worried about that. When it comes to the framework funding that was raised, we believe that the hospital sector should be financed in the main. Today he'll be 50 pst. input-driven. We have a lot of feedback that this type of funding with a high proportion of ISF can lead to error priorities, because it's the patients who pay off, who are given priority -- not the ones who need the most. Other countries have made a successful conversion, e.g. Scotland. What's extra crazy is that regional health professionals continue this method of funding down to each individual hospital and each single department. Then one gets the absurd situation that one has in the food departments, which is premiered at NOK 5000 per 500 ml of bleeding a woman has at birth. We can't have such a funding system. In any case, the food departments must be financed within the framework. Finally, the refugee situation has been special in the fall. He wants to challenge our services in many areas, but also the municipal health services and hospitals. I am concerned about whether we are well enough rigged that there will be good enough health services on asylum reception for those who are waiting. I'm worried about feedback that people and kids are getting sick and maybe not getting good enough help. I'm also very concerned that one in that situation uses the hospitals as a balancing post. It happened in the budget agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, then 130 million. kr went out.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1383	To the representative of Toppe: now it's the number that counts, and hospitals have grown in their budgets over the last three years. It can't be undermined. As a result, the number of treatments has also increased and waiting lists have decreased. With regard to the reference to Scotland and the framework funding, it appears that hospitals are in deficit and the country has to go in and finance. We can probably come back to this. What I really took the floor for is actually drugs. For the 2016 budget, it is clear that the government is taking pharmaceutical policy seriously. We want to ensure that patients are offered proper healthcare treatment and that the public pays the right price for medicines given to the patient. The transfer of funding of medicinal products from public funds to health businesses, as proposed by the government, ensures this. This applies, inter alia, to: immunostimulating medicinal products and new medicinal products for the treatment of hepatitis C. The government also continues its efforts to adjust the financial arrangements for medicinal products in hospitals. These include: notified a conversion of the nuclear medicine scheme. The reimbursement of the current day on an after-charge basis shall be replaced by predetermined rates at the current rate of activity-based grants. This involves the transfer of funds from the radiopharmaceutical costs to the basic allocation of regional health establishments. Actually, this is a simplification of the system, but we will keep in mind that this conversion does not affect the financing of medicinal products recommended by the methodological evaluation system. New efforts are also being made in the State budget, such as nettapothek, a new Pharmacovigilance System and 5 million. to ensure faster treatment of the methodological assessment of new medicinal products for use in the specialist healthcare system. The investigation capacity of the Swedish Medical Products Agency is also strengthened, and last year it was a pleasure that the government increased the de minimis threshold by 25 million. kr. This has been a success. Medicinal products are now rapidly included in the list of prescription products. We have also promised that medicines should be used more quickly, and we see that it works. There is evidence that many people use drugs incorrectly, and that side effects are a problem. In particular, older people use a lot of drugs. There is also a lot of fault in the hospital. It's a pleasure for the government to do something about this. It is proposed, inter alia: a 5 million SEK pharmacy admissibility scheme for guidance on the use of medicinal products for asthma and colza, and the notification of medicinal products also proposes regulatory requirements for medical examination in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1401	It might be tempting to continue the discussion on Haugesund with the representative Hoksrud, but at the risk of conflict with the Grand Stortinges Christmas ounce I shall not go too far. But let me say that the core of this debate is whether the discount leads to more double rooms being built or not. I think that the government parties should take on seriously those warnings that a sheep, among other things. from the Pensioners' Association, which has very many members who are directly affected by this and who point out something obvious, namely that the discount scheme actually allows a municipality to save money on having older people live in double rooms instead of building new ones. That's the weakness of the arrangement. It wasn't an opinion, it's the facts, so there shouldn't be any need for Hoksrud's representative to follow up. I have a small supplementary remark for the vote. I have taken up the proposals SV stood alone about, but we want, after having considered the suggestions of other parties, to join in four further proposals that the Workers' Party and the Centre have promoted, and which we believe are wise. It concerns proposal No. 16 by the Labour Party and proposal No. 26, Nos. 28 and No 29 from the Center Party. I would like to ask that SV be given the opportunity to vote in favour of those proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1408	The representative, Audun Lysbakken, then presented the proposals to which the Socialist Left will also vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1411	Russ and mental health have been given a worthwhile place in the debate today, and that is good. I need to comment on the contributions of the representative of Vennesland regarding the funds for drugs and her concern that these are not used in the municipalities. This is precisely the background that our government immediately reinstated the designation of half of these funds in our first budget. In addition, the Committee now has to deal with a contingency plan on drugs, a plan that is liberatingly clear on measures and resources for the municipalities, unlike the Red-Green Government's report on drug use. We believe that it is not enough just to ‘see’ the addicts. We need concrete measures to improve post-protection and how to live one's life in the municipalities. So to this with mental health in school and the importance of focusing on preventive health work for children and young people. Several representatives of the Labour Party have been up and talking about this, and unfortunately there is good reason to remind the Labour Party that in their last budget before the elections they chose to remove funds for the mental health programme in school, which we re-entered in our first budget. Several from the Workers' Party now also believe that earmarking funds for health sisters is the only response to strengthen the service. Even the Workers' Party did not invest in as much as our government in preventive health services. It has not been the last two years that there has been a challenge with the need for better services and more accessible school health services. Where the Labour Party in its last budget before the elections added 180 million. kr, our government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, is up in a total bet of 767.7 million. kr – the last hundreds of millions after the agreement with the Christian People’s Party and the Left now in the budget. That's how the municipalities give priority to this. I've been to several municipalities saying that they really don't want earmarked funds, because they find that it means they have to start searching, and they have to report. They feel that they now have a government that year after year strengthens this area, and they trust that it will continue. I've been to Oppegård. There they have physiotherapists, who have psychologists, who have school nurses, and they have made this effort despite – to put it that way – that these are not earmarked means. We see that the greatest inequalities in health go between those who have high education and those who have no education. This is also why this government's main objective is to invest in school teachers, because it is an important public health measure and important for mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1426	Then the meeting of the Stortinges Christmas munsj was cancelled, and the meeting was resumed at 0 p.m. 16:00. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 13.45. ----- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 16th@item: inlistbox President: Ms Nybakk
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1439	The size continues initially the examination of case No. 1 on agenda No 32, but as far as the President is aware, the last speakers have withdrawn. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1455	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1482	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to four lines be given with replies from the main figures of the parties and six lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1493	Norway has benefited over many years from a high oil price and a high level of activity in the petroleum sector. However, over the past year the oil price has halved, resulting in quite significant negative effects on employment and activity in this industry, both in oil companies and in the supply industry. Unemployment is increasing, but fortunately this situation is geographically nuanced. The coastline on the South-West and northwards towards Kristiansund notices the negative consequences best. However, other parts of the country experience increasing employment and higher activity. Among other things, a low price and a moderate wage settlement have strengthened the competitive position of many types of export-oriented industry. In a transition period when the petroleum industry will provide weaker growth impulses to the Norwegian economy, the main challenge is to create many new jobs in Norway in the future, and we need to secure existing jobs. We know that the greatest social inequality goes between those who have a job and those who are out of work. The greatest asset is to have a job to go to – an income that allows you to serve the mortgage and take care of yourself and your family. We need to facilitate the creation of many new jobs in the future. We need to create these within a climate-friendly framework, the famous green shift, which we talk a lot about. We need to create new jobs for the many refugees and asylum seekers who have come to Norway. Job is an important integration factor and contributes to building the welfare community. And we need to create new jobs for all those who have now lost their jobs and are out of work. Therefore, the heading of the government budget and of the Right has been a budget for work, for activity and for conversion. This also reflects the tax component of the state budget for 2016. I assume that the different parties themselves will explain their own tax arrangements. For the right, it is important to work towards a lower level of taxation in order to stimulate employment, saving and investment. Right wants more to be created, not more taxed. We want to stimulate new jobs and secure existing jobs, so that everyone can have a job to go to. The Cooperation Agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left states that we jointly base our policy on the creation of values before they can be shared. The cooperation parties will strengthen an all-round and wide-ranging Norwegian business life and facilitate private ownership. The government continues its efforts to reduce the level of taxes and taxes while also proposing to improve the tax system. Tax is not an objective in itself, but a means of achieving policy objectives related to the most efficient funding of welfare goods, achieving more efficient resource use, ensuring social mobility and providing better conditions for Norwegian business. The Government and the Right aim to create a more growth-promoting tax system and a device that stimulates more environmentally friendly behaviour. At the bottom, there must be incentives that make it more attractive to work, save and invest. The main features of the tax regime of the government are as follows: We have proposed, through the tax communication presented on the same day as the State budget, that corporate tax and general income tax should be reduced to a level of 22 pst. by 2018, and we are already starting this work in the 2016 state budget, where these rates are proposed to be reduced from the current rate of 27 p.m. until 25 pst. This is an important step towards bringing corporate tax in Norway down to a level similar to our neighbouring countries and our closest competitors. I'm glad that there's an overall finance committee that believes that corporate tax is reduced to 25 pst. Over many years, we have had the same rate of corporation tax and general income tax to avoid tax planning. This principle continues, and we also propose to lower the income tax to 25 pst. In order to reduce the government's loss of income, the government proposes to introduce a new step-by-step tax of four steps for the taxation of persons, replacing the current peak tax. As this is proposed by the government and with some adjustments to the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, most will come out somewhat better with the government's proposals. I am also pleased that an overall finance committee is behind the step tax principle, although the batches may disagree on the amount of the bottom line and on the percentage of each step. For the right, it is important to stimulate investment in jobs, both existing and new. Therefore, we are pleased that the total tax on ownership in the government's proposal is roughly the same as in the current year. When we see dividend taxes and reductions in corporate taxes as a whole, the tax should be almost unchanged. We are also pleased that the asset tax base is increasing from 1.2 million. NOK 1.4 million. SEK – 2,8 million. kr for married couples – so that about 70 000 more people now do not pay taxes on wealth. An improvement in the taxes on wealth through increased deductions will be positive for projects that rely on Norwegian equity and help to strengthen Norwegian ownership. For the Right and Government, it has been important to change the tax favorisation of property investment. This work continues in the 2016 state budget through the proposal to increase the equivalency of secondary dwellings and commercial property from the current level of 70 pst. to 80 pst. of market value. Furthermore, no changes in the valuation of primary and leisure property are proposed. The world is marked by increased globalisation, which means that businesses and tax bases are more mobile than before. It is therefore important to adapt the tax system to new developments in the Norwegian and international economies in a way that makes it less attractive to use large resources on international tax adaptation that undermines the Norwegian tax base. We make tax planning and tax migration a little more difficult through interest-rate deduction and dividend taxation of loans from companies to private shareholders. Lower tax rates will also make moving profits out of Norway less profitable. We are implementing tax changes in several areas, including: we improve the tax FUNN scheme. The maximum deduction basis for own R & D is increased from 15 million. NOK 20 million. kr, and the deduction basis for the R & D purchased is raised from SEK 33 million. NOK 40 million. kr. This mechanism has proved both effective and popular and builds on the desire for more innovation and industrial development both to secure jobs and to allow existing enterprises to expand activity and to offer new jobs. We propose that gains on the realization of agricultural property should only be subject to capital taxes, and with this a major promise is accepted in the Sundvolden Declaration. This is an important step in ensuring the movement of agricultural property, as many fortunately want to enter this industry. Norway has a high power surplus in a normal river basin, and it is important that this situation can be used for industrial development and new jobs. It is therefore good that we reduce the electricity charge for data centres at the same low rate as for industry. This strengthens the competitive situation of an industry that has already shown growth potential in Norway and which has significant ring-fences in the number of jobs and value added. It should also be mentioned that the government and the Right improve the BSU scheme, housing saving for young people, by increasing the maximum savings amount from DKK 200000 to DKK 300000. This is an important mechanism to facilitate the entry of young people into the housing market. For the Right, it is a significant asset that most people should be able to own their own housing. Otherwise, we're now introducing an increase deduction. This means that, in line with the commitments made by the Sundvolden Declaration, we are giving tax deductions for an increment in the home. If we are to achieve greater energy efficiency, we must have effective arrangements for the existing housing stock, which is simple and unbureaucratic. We have a government that understands the situation in Norwegian business and employment. Everyone should have a job to do, and we are therefore promoting a proposal for taxes and taxes for 2016 that will contribute to increased activity and work. The government's 2016 tax settlement proposals respond to the economic challenges Norway is facing now, and we are starting to implement a tax reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1556	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1559	The State budgets for 2014 and 2015 stated that Norway’s thousand richest people would receive NOK 2100 in tax bills every day. 95 pst. the taxpayers would have more than 5 dollars a day. After the budget conciliation this autumn, we're once again seeing that most people get the worst out. Children's families and ordinary people are left to say nothing because tax cuts are zeroed out of increased expenses. It's getting more expensive to commute, electricity is getting more expensive, a seat tax is being imposed – to mention something. The right has talked a lot about new ideas and better solutions. I think it's an honest thing that the Right adds up to a tax policy where those who have the most from before get more, and that ordinary people are left with less than they had before. My question is, Why is it not right that the loss project is exposed to ordinary taxpayers?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1570	The right is concerned that everyone in Norway should be able to manage themselves, and we know that what is the big difference, the big social difference, is about those who are in work, compared to those who are out of work. The situation in the country is now, with increasing unemployment and falling oil prices, creating new jobs and secure existing jobs, the most important thing we can do for the welfare of individuals. The tax regime we are presenting believes we are responding to this challenge. It is important to facilitate investors' willingness to spend money on investing in jobs and secure jobs, and then we need to put the framework conditions in a way that encourages this. We want more to be created in this society, no more to be taxed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1577	The representative Meling has become a hot defender of new charges found in a late night, such as the fare. I would like to ask whether the representative Meling is pleased that in Haugesund the departures between Haugesund and Copenhagen are reduced by 57 pst. and between Bergen and Haugesund by 42 pst. The space between Stavanger and Newcastle is put down. Does the representative, Meling, want further closures of routes in Rogaland, as a result of her own policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1582	It is clear that this charge is unfortunate for some airports, that it can cause problems. Among other things, we have met representatives of Rygge Airport in Østfold, which is probably very dependent on one low-cost company that has a rather strict policy for this with fees. But this fee is part of a green shift. We want to encourage more environmentally friendly behaviour, and flying cheap – 19 kr to Poland or 60 kr to London – may not be the most environmentally friendly thing we add. So introducing a seat charge is part of a green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1587	The rapporteur was concerned about the possibilities for a broad consensus on tax reform in his speech. I agree that when you look at the various parties' tax arrangements, it may seem that there is a basis for that. How do Right and Representative Meling assess the possibility of a wide-ranging settlement based on how we view the different parties involved in fiscal policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1592	I think the starting point for a broad settlement is good. I base that on the signals that have come through the treatment of the State budget and the tax and tax components of the State budget. I see that we quite agree on a number of main directions, including: the most important thing, namely to reduce corporation tax. The principle of step tax is also widely agreed. Then I see that there may also be challenges, of course, among other things. in the case of own taxes. But I hear that the parties want to add up to a broad settlement, and I take that seriously and have faith in it. So by giving and having a good process, I think we should be able to come up with a good and broad tax settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1597	The representative Meling spoke about the need to create values before they are distributed, and I fully agree with that. So it's like a good distribution of values is essentially better for the growth of the economy. This is what the OECD has, for example. show us in the last few years, and therefore they have recommended Norway to introduce a more balanced tax system. How does the representative of Meling agree to create more values before they are distributed, with a policy that compensates for excessive tax cuts to the richest with explosive growth in oil money?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1605	The largest and most important distribution and social cohesion actually occurs in the way we dispose of the state budget. It does not happen through the tax regime itself. I just want to repeat that the greatest inequality in social distribution is between those who have a job to go to, and those who are out of work. Therefore, creating jobs and offering people jobs will be the most important thing we can do to get a good distribution of the well-being of our society. The tax system is then important to stimulate new jobs and secure existing jobs, so that everyone has a job to go to and can support themselves and their families.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1610	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1613	The tax treatment we are dealing with today is part of a larger picture in several ways. Firstly, it merges into a series of budgets adopted by the current government and the cooperation parties. It continues previous years' tax cuts, and it adds new ones. Overall, this government’s definitive main effort and project, although – and it should be said – part of the proposed tax cut had to be dropped next year, as the reality of the refugee crisis and its costs fell. This main initiative involves a targeted increase in the differences between people, despite the growing awareness that small differences are an important prerequisite for stability, trust, innovation and growth in a society. Last year, as we probably all remember – and some better than others, I think – was budgeted with a ramask rich, with huge tax cuts to them with really much, combined with petty cuts to some of the most striving in our society. There were few who understood that it was supposed to be the recipe for the conversion. The profile of the year does not imply the same size of wealth tax code, but they remain an important priority. At the same time, we see aggravation of the labour force and punishment of the unemployed. The taxation of termination benefits is one example, the tightening of the commuting allowance is another — and especially at a time when more people have to work because the labour market is tighter. This year is also the first year that unemployed people notice the results of the decision taken last year to cut the holiday allowance supplement for them. When I stay a little bit at this initially, it's because this priority is in many ways the most important dividing line between today's government and the alternative. We know we're facing big problems in the years to come. The high pension costs have not yet been taken seriously, there are some years to come, and the answer to this is not to cut the country's income dramatically while expenditure increases. I hear people from the government parties, including the finance minister, constantly try to claim that our response to a business life in a difficult situation is huge tax incentives. That's wrong. For many, many years, we have said that we want a stable level of taxation. We are going against the big government cut, both because they are less able to finance well-being and maintain the enormous strength of being a country where people have similar opportunities, but also because the tax cuts that have been prioritised have a highly doubtful impact on the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. Unfortunately, research shows that the effect of lowering taxes is relatively modest, but it has more harmful effects to put them back together. Therefore, it is serious that we have a government that has to lower the overall tax level as the main programme statement, although we have a tax level lower than Sweden, for example, which after eight years of civil government has said clearly no to further tax cuts. Our criticism of taking the overall level down sharply does not mean that we have a static view of the tax system. It takes me to the second point, where this arrangement forms part of a larger whole, namely the tax reform. We put down the Scheel committee in our time. We did it because it was necessary, in the light of international developments, with an increasing pressure on the tax base and, in particular, company taxes. I will not hide the fact that it is demanding to deal with parts of a tax reform that have not yet been dealt with in the Storting in this budget. Nevertheless, we are pleased that the committee's recommendations have not only ended up in a drawer, and we choose to support the government's proposal to go down to 25 pst. to corporate and income taxes. By doing so, we follow up some of the most important principles in the Scheel Committee's setting. This means a change from source-based to residence-based taxation, which will make investing in Norway more profitable. It's an independent goal. Then there are some issues that we believe are important in the further treatment of the reform, related to facilitating Norwegian ownership, which we believe the Scheel Committee does not respond well enough to. The display rate is one theme that we'll probably come back to. Another theme is the distortion of the current structure of the property tax, with different valuations of different property items. There we have proposed to do something about it in the alternative arrangement we present now in the autumn, by putting all the property, except the primary dwelling, to 80 pst. In the extension of this, let me say that we are willing to talk about different ways of setting up the wealth tax, but what we cannot leave as a principle is that the tax system should reflect what the vast majority of people think is quite reasonable – that people should provide with no ability, and that wealth should somehow be taxed in Norway. To keep the proceeds up, we're following up two of the Scheel committee's recommendations that are not part of the government's arrangement now. One is the taxation of the financial industry. It's been discussed and investigated for several rounds before, and that's also why we believe, like the Christian People's Party, that it can be introduced from 1 July. It's the simplified model we're proposing for the Scheel Committee, and the sample has defined the tax base in its recommendations. We also propose to include external interest rates in the interest limit rule. It's a topic that travels some dilemmas, because there will be companies that don't do active tax planning, but that nevertheless have a high level of indebtedness, that will be affected by such a rule. At the same time, the Scheel Committee is very clear that this is necessary in order to get an effective interest-rate limitation rule, and that the transfer of capital by using interest rates is such a major problem that it is more important to get this in place than to protect some highly-credited companies. After all, it will still be very beneficial to finance an investment with debt compared to equity. Finally, some words about the charging system, and I'm going to save myself for fun about the origin of the fare, but just point out the underlying and more serious in that the settlement parties once again have to figure out a whole new fee that nobody knows about the consequences of, in twelve hours to get the budget to go up. It bears witness to weak steering and has little to do with the fee as such. In the Workers' Party, we even have a national decision to pay an airline seat fee on the basis of a German model, with pressure to investigate, because we believe that we need to know what we do if we introduce such a fee – and after a German model because it is differentiated and thus has more direct connection with actual emissions than the fee that the settlement parties have now brought up. I think it's a shame. I am generally in favour of using the charging system to reduce emissions. We have a long success story, including: by car, but poorly designed and underthought-out taxes hardly help to increase the uptake of a green tax shift outside among people. I also have to say that I think it is a bit funny that when you choose one fee to mark the green print in this budget, it is the electricity charge. There may be a lot of reasons to want to increase the electricity charge, but there is at least a fee that has a weak connection with greenhouse gas emissions – if any, with the large power surplus we have gradually received in Norway. Then it would be better to follow the Workers' Party's alternative scheme, which increases the charges for actual emissions directly linked to CO2, for example. on fuel – on diesel, completely specific, in our setup. Otherwise, I can finally say that we have noticed with a certain interest the wording of the Green Tax Commission that came out of the conciliation process. Like many others, we're a little bit unsure of what those wordings actually mean, after we've heard various attempts at interpretation from the various settlement parties in the public, but we're in every way excited about the continuation and look forward to considering the recommendations of the Green Tax Commission. With this, I address the proposal to which the Labour Party is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1650	The representative Marianne Marthinsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1655	I would like first of all to remind the representative Marthinsen of the Workers' Party's own national meeting decision in ours to pay an airline seat fee, just so it is mentioned. Otherwise, I would also like to thank you for your attendance and transparency in order to discuss different aspects of tax reform. I look forward to the conversations we're going to have about it. The heading of the budget of the Workers' Party is ‘Work for all is job number one’. And the representative Marthinsen knows the government's and Right's approach to the importance of taxes and charges in facilitating and stimulating new jobs. We find it strange that the Workers' Party kind of starts this process of working for everyone by sending a billion bill to business – to those who are actually going to create these jobs. I'm asking a big question about whether this is a sensible policy to create more jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1664	Now I have to repeat that our country meeting decision to pay an airline seat fee according to the German model I specifically mentioned in my post. So it's by no means forgotten. It is my wish that Stortinget can manage to find a better solution to that charge than what now came up in 12 hours from the settlement parties. I believe that there is a short cut that we often see in the Right, that there are similarities between the lowest possible level of taxation and the number of jobs created in a society. I believe that the last period of government is a good example that this is not necessarily the case. If you travel around and talk to businesses, which I am sure both the representative Meling and I often do, you would like to hear «infrastructure», «instrument apparatus», «research», «development» mentioned, long before, for example, the issue of taxes on wealth. There is, of course, a long-term link between the ability to finance these assets that our businesses are also concerned with, and the overall level of taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1671	Last year, in the context of their alternative state budget, the Labour Party stated that they wanted to maintain the overall level of taxation as it was in 2013. Trond Giske confirmed this in Political Quarter a week ago, when he said that they would reverse all the tax reliefs that this government had made. Last year, the Workers' Party commented that they did not agree to reintroduce the inheritance fee according to the model in force in 2013. But in order to compensate for this, the Workers' Party proposes that the wealth tax be increased. A few days ago, on the other hand, the Workers' Party confirmed that they would introduce a new inheritance tax model, although they have proposed to tighten the wealth tax in order to compensate for the loss of the inheritance tax. Does this mean that from 2018 we can expect to have an even higher property tax than in 2013, in addition to a new inheritance tax, if the Workers' Party comes into government?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1680	I have noticed that the representative Steffensen has read our comments on this year's budget in that way. But there's absolutely nothing eye-catching in those comments. The notes basically say the same thing that we have said all along since the inheritance fee was abolished. First of all, we are not going to reintroduce the old inheritance tax model. It was a model that eventually hit badly, which basically only met those who inherited, for example. paid-down houses, and hit very little larger fortunes. At the same time, I believe that any serious party must have a conscious view of how wealth is taxed, and how to avoid the concentration of wealth on fewer and fewer hands over time, because this simply undermines the dynamics and growth capacity of a society. Now, the national meeting of the Workers' Party will decide what kind of tax level we go to elections at in 2017 – the voters will get answers to in good time. But I am absolutely sure that our national meeting will be concerned that we should have a progressive tax system, where wealth is taxed in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1687	With some goodwill, I interpret the conclusion of the post of the representative Marthinsen as saying that the Labour Party is now positive to a green tax shift. Since the Green Tax Commission presented its report, we have, among other things, in writing. - (SV) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Green Tax Commission is on the verge of, and too far-reaching, the Green Tax Commission, and Mr Aasland, the Labour Party, as well as the Green Tax Commission, which is far too puzzling and will only slightly lead to changes in behaviour – a somewhat confusing blatant penitence, but which unfortunately leads to some vague and ambiguous messages from the Labour Party when it comes to climate and environmental policy. The question is whether the Labour Party is actually in favour of or against a green tax shift, and what level does the Labour Party see that such a tax shift should be adopted, given that we should actually achieve the target of emission reductions – targets to which the Labour Party has also joined?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1694	The representative of Breivik interpreted me correctly at least as he assumed that the Workers' Party is positive to a green tax shift. We now have a longer history of this, among other things. by car, which I referred to in my article. The conversion of car charges has caused emissions from the new car sales to fall by over 30 p.m. and this is largely due to the charging policy. The Green Tax Commission has just come, and we have to spend time getting into it. But what I notice is the first reactions from the environmental movement, which is somewhat skeptical about what has been presented, because little through that setting shows the willingness to use the charging system actively to bring about behavioural changes. It is important to make pollution more expensive, but there is little willingness to use different levels for, for example: to trigger a technology transition, which has been done with great success with an electric car.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1701	We've got a green tax commission, and we have a big message for treatment of the tax system. My question to the representative Marthinsen and the Workers' Party is: From what she sees so far, does she believe that this is the basis for a broad agreement on fiscal policy in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1707	Thank you for an important but comprehensive question. Yes, we have chosen to interpret positively the communication on tax reform that came from the government. We see that it addresses many of the Scheel Committee's recommendations, and we also see in our alternative budget line that we are voting in favour of some of the tax changes proposed as a direct consequence of the Scheel Committee's suspension. So I think there's a lot of room for the Storting to gather on some basic principles of our tax system, but I think, if I'm going to dry up a few months in time, that, like in 1992, if we're going to make a deal, we're not going to get any unified attitude in the Storing at rates and at the tax level like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1714	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1717	Tax policy may be the area where you best notice differences between the different parties. While most people talk about taxes as a tool for redistribution, we talk about value creation in the Progress Party. I spent my first two years here at Stortinget in the Transport Committee, and almost everywhere I was in the country, I challenged businesses on which steps would help them best to facilitate increased activity and secure jobs. In contrast to all of them, there has always been greater investment in infrastructure and the removal of property taxes as two of its three main points. In other words, investment in infrastructure and tax relief has gone back relatively often, so I am glad that these are the points that the government has delivered on, delivers on, and will deliver on. In order to stimulate increased activity and secure Norwegian ownership, we have therefore reduced the wealth tax. Our goal in the Progress Party is to remove it completely. This is a Norwegian special tax that taxes Norwegian ownership regardless of whether the company is carrying a profit or a deficit. In the Progress Party, we are concerned that values must be created before they can be shared. To create values, business must have good framework conditions in the form of, among other things. improved infrastructure and a growth-enhancing tax regime. Today, the level of taxation in Norway is high against comparable countries. For example, we have had a company tax of 28 p.m., while Sweden and Denmark either have 22 p.m. or have warned to reduce it to 22 pst. Private companies are the motors of society. These account for a large proportion of employment and value added in Norway. These enterprises need better framework conditions if they are to remain the basis of the welfare society of the future. Step-by-step we're now going in the right direction. We contribute to a lower tax rate that will stimulate increased investment, increased saving and increased activity, and thus ensure safe jobs. In this budget, the Government has decided to reduce corporation tax to 25 p.m. for 2016, and aims to reduce it to 22 pst. in 2018. In our three budgets, we have reduced taxes and taxes by about 18 billion. kr. The wealth tax has been an important factor in this, but it is also important for the Progress Party to provide relief to broad groups of the population. While the red-greens in the 2013 election campaign talked about that less tax means less well-being, I want to turn a little on that message, because the lower tax burden on the individual means more freedom and increased personal well-being. While persons with an income of between 350 000 and 750000 SEK experienced an increase in the tax over the period 2005-2013, the Government’s Advance Party has contributed to this group paying between 2,300 and 5,800 SEK less in taxes in 2016 than they did in 2013. I hear the opposition is talking this down violently. Snorre Serigstad Valen said in a portrait interview with the Financial Newspaper this week that the tax reliefs we have contributed to ordinary people were only enough for a banana a week. Either Snorre Serigstad Valen has got the calculator Worker's party used last year, the one that rains wrong, or after he became a second manager, he has changed his habits and replaced the banana with the slightly more expensive version of banana split. In Political Quarter a week ago, Vice President of the Workers' Party told them to reverse all tax reliefs this government has made. This means that the Workers' Party will go to elections in 2017 to increase the taxes by thousands of dollars for ordinary workers. It's going to be a fun election if the Workers' Party chooses to listen to its Vice-Chairman. For most people, it's not just the tax level that matters. The level of charges is also of great importance. The progress party is often referred to as the best friend of the drivers, and last year we provided for a historic reduction in car-related charges of about 2 billion. kr. The re-registration fee was e.g. significantly reduced, and this year it costs a maximum of NOK 5 900 to re-register a car, while a similar car would cost NOK 20 000 to re-register in 2013. For 2016, the large grip will be changes in the one-off fee. The new model will ensure that cars with high emissions will be significantly more expensive, while we have made corresponding reductions in the power and weight charges. The consequence is that we reward new and environmentally friendly technology, we ensure that safe, solid family cars become more reasonable and thus more accessible to people most. This is good news both for the environment, for road safety and for most people. It is, together with a lower level of taxation for companies and persons, a recognisable and good Progress Party policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1743	The called alternate of the Sogn and Fjordane counties, Jenny Følling, has now taken the seat. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1748	Creativity has been very great to free money, so that one gets the funded tax cuts to the richest of the country, and one of the inventions of the year — with effect from next year — is termination pay schemes to be taxed. I ask, will taxation apply to both forms of termination pay? That one now calls it ‘income’ will result in a curtailment of Nav’s benefits, or will the Progress Party – and the Government, for that matter – oppose it? And what about matters that are being treated, they will be affected by taxing, or will they escape when payments come next year? These are issues that are important to many in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1755	First of all, I want to grasp what the representative has to say about tax havens for the richest. I would like to remind you that in this budget, the Advance Party has cut the curtailment for married pensioners, which means that 650 000 pensioners get an increase in their pension by a further NOK 4000 a year. On top of that, we've got $4,000 in increased retirement from September 1st for single-age pensioners, and as I said from the pulpit, we've also made sure that 60 pst. of the reliefs in the year's budget, they receive revenues of between 350000 and 750000 kroner. With regard to the issue of termination benefits, the tax exemption with the type of remuneration has been a deduction that is included and contributes to making the tax system more bureaucratic, more heavy. We've said that we want to debureaucratic, make things easier. We do that by making sure that there are lower tax rates and few deductions, that is a better solution than having high tax rates and large deductions. A positive effect of the decision is that this will now also be regarded as retiring income.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1762	The Progress Party and the Cooperation Parties introduced a new practice last year — a levy was introduced in December and abolished before it became effective. That was very wise, you ask me. And there, in the fee decision, there was a §3 and §4 where an emergency valve was put in. During my ten-year life at Stortinget, I have seen the improvements twice, it was the bag tax last year, and then the flight fee this year. So then I became a little optimistic, because it says that you can kind of reverse them if they weren't ‘considered’, the effects you see when the fee decision was taken, and I don't think everything was considered. Today, news has come that the airport manager at Moss Airport Rygge says that the airport can be closed from November 1st next year. Was it considered at the time of the fee decision, and if it was not considered, will you reverse it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1767	I thank you for the question, but I would like to remind the representative that the green shift in the budgetary agreement was definitely not the main policy of the Progress Party. Except that we're well pleased that safe, existing family cars are going to be cheaper, we'll have to admit that the green shift is the other parties that have to take their share of the credit for. But we have voted in favour of the proposal, and it contains the paragraph that you mentioned. Now this is going to be consulted, now it's going to be reviewed, we're going to get input from the industry to see how the fee can best be set up, but I don't think we're going to experience the same thing as we did with the bag tax, that it's going to be completely removed. I would also like to point out what the representative raised in the question to Siri Meling earlier, about Haugesund Airport, and I would also like to say that Onoee has been out saying that market failure in market share may be the main reason why they choose to cut routes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1776	The national budget, presented by Minister of Finance Siv Jensen, states that the type of environmental taxes, as it is called, introduced on aircraft will have no effect because of the European quota system. And in this context, I fully agree with the Minister of Finance. But the question remains: once you have got the point that you should be able to look at it again, and that the department should be able to look at it again, if the fee gives consequences that were not thought about, or ‘considered’ – as it says in the setting – when the fee decision was taken: was it considered what we are now seeing, for example. the disappearance of Moss Airport Smoking, with 1 000 jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1783	As for what is now going to happen further in the work on this charge, the Storting has decided that this fee will be implemented, and then we have sent it over to the ministry, because it is the ones who are going to review it. So the most natural thing is to ask the Council of State what will happen to the levy and that paragraph, because that responsibility is lifted from the Stortinget and to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1788	I would like to thank the representative Steffensen for immortalising my quotations here in the Chamber. And I'm going to take self-criticism: I can direct myself to the fact that the Party's tax cuts for people mostly limit themselves to a track a day, and then the question is, what difference does that really make? Had not the money you spent on it had been better spent on, for example. to maintain the tax exemption on termination benefits? What kind of message is it really to send to the thousands of people who in these days have lost their jobs, to start taxing their unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1794	Once again, I think Snorre Serigstad Valen makes the calculation of the calculator, because in that case there must be kilos of bananas he talks about – not on some bananas. But in the case of termination benefits, I would say once again that this is a way of simplifying the tax system, by trying to remove some types of deduction, making sure that everything is counted as income. And then we also get positive benefits, like it's considered pensionable income for those who lose their jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1801	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1804	It's just in a gallup that the center party right now is larger than the Christian People's Party, not in the hall. As far as the tax system is concerned, the Christian People's Party's objective is to have a system that minimises value creation, employment, volunteering and saving, while helping to achieve important objectives of distribution, environment and public health. These are the reasons we have set out in the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party. The Norwegian economy is entering a demanding period of lower value creation and increasing unemployment due to lower oil prices and gradual ageing of the population. At the same time, the inequality is growing due to globalisation and new technologies. As Paris has shown us, there are major climate challenges that need to be solved, and fortunately also the will to do so. Therefore, it is more important than ever that we also give priority to the tax changes that make the biggest contributions to increased value creation and investment that ensure a good distribution profile and that contribute to a better climate and environment. That is why the Christian People's Party has joined the government's proposal for a reduction in corporation tax from 27 to 25 p.m., which was also recommended by the Scheel Committee. The capital is as well-known mobile, and can easily go to other countries with lower taxes if the difference in the tax becomes too large. The average tax rate in the OECD has fallen from nearly 50 pst. at the beginning of the 1950s to about 25 pst. today. Unfortunately, tax adjustment is widespread, as we know, among other things. by moving profits to low tax countries. There is a relatively broad professional consensus – I can mention both the OECD and the IMF – that reductions in corporate taxes and income taxes for people make a larger contribution to value creation and investment than many other tax forms, and that is what our proposal for tax regimes also reflects. Then I want to say that based on both the lines we have had, and what we see of the tax arrangements of the individual parties, I am reasonably positive about the possibility of a tax settlement on the basis of the payment notice that is now being processed, and on which we are going to have a comprehensive hearing tomorrow. The representative Marthinsen said that we may not agree on all the percentages and tax rates, but if the pillars are in place, it can also lay the foundation for a robust tax system that provides predictability. There has been a characteristic of the Norwegian system for many years, and I hope it can continue when we get a position on this follow-up work of the tax reform communication. We have agreed – largely across the board – that it is an objective to reduce taxes on labour and on businesses. At the same time, we have said that it is reasonable to increase the tax on consumption. What is interesting is that the overall level of taxation is rarely a significant debate. It is interesting how the tax regime for both people and businesses has gone through this budgetary process with relatively great calm, but once you touch some kind of tax, the noise level comes. In this way, I believe that both the consensus in Paris and the commitment of the Green Tax Commission to increase taxes on consumption – not least the consumption that also poses environmental challenges – will be a major topic of debate in the future, where we must expect noise. Then it is up to us and this assembly to stand in that debate and take the choices that are right and important, not least in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1819	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1822	The representative Roy Steffensen was more concerned with calculators and bananas than he was with answering the question that he got from this pulpit. I am therefore trying with a representative that I think – hopefully – has better ability to listen. I would first like to ask whether it is such that I am right that in the heart of the Christian People's Party and the representative Syversen agree with me that it is simply bad done and unsocial to tax unemployment, as the representative Serigstad Valen so well said? Will Christian People's Party, for example. that there should be a curtailment of Nav services related to a termination benefit scheme that is now defined as income? There was one in three questions I asked the representative Steffensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1829	I don't have any problem seeing that it's not exactly that part of the deal that creates the greatest enthusiasm, nor in the Christian People's Party, but at the same time it's also something to see that you're taxing in line with the general principles. It is a consideration, or some kind of income, that you get, and generally that kind of income is to be taxed. I am aware that there have been questions about the consequences, among other things. for benefits via Nav. I'm concerned that we're going to find a solution that makes it as simple as possible for those who come in this situation. We shall contribute to ensuring that what the representative, Mr Hagebakken, is addressed, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1834	First of all, I would like to thank the representative Syversen and the Christian People's Party for also inviting them to make a broad tax settlement. The representative of the Seven was in his intervention on the major climate challenges that need to be addressed. We have recently concluded a budget agreement where also green taxes and a green shift have been part of this agreement, and we are looking a little at the challenges the debate creates, among other things. in this word change. The Green Tax Commission recently presented its report, and my question to the Seven is how he and the Christian People's Party look forward to the work that will now take place in connection with the Green Tax Commission and its recommendation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1841	It is interesting when you get such a tax commission, and see the outcome of the tax commission's work, how the comments may reflect the position you initially have – from different stakeholder organisations to parties. But the overall idea that the polluter should pay, and that it should be reflected in the tax system, I also hope that it will be a supporting foundation for the follow-up that the government will have, and that we will eventually also have in the Stortinget. I think the agreement we have now reached on car charges – first in connection with the revised budget, which has been followed up in the conciliation – gives exactly that message, and that it can be a good example in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1846	Odd Holten is ‘codfather’ to use that term, to the airport of Rygge. He was very proud of it, and he has great ownership of that fellow experience there. Now it may soon be the father's end, for it is announced in today's newspapers that Moss Airport Smoking will be dropped from 1 November. Then my question to the Syversen is: Can this come under Section 4 – i.e. this “was not considered when the fee decision was taken”, that the fee can sometimes have an “unintentional effect”, and that the Council of State can therefore disregard the tax decision? That is what the wording says here. Is Syverse open that it may be necessary to use § 3 and § 4 this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1853	After my little experience, if you're a father once, you're forever. But it's possible there are other rules for airports, I don't know. I think we should calm it down a little bit. I'm not so surprised that there are actors who now have strong interests in believing one thing or the other about the outcome of what's being reconciled, and what consequences it will have in the phase we're in now. I think we can well await the consultation process that is going to be, and that will provide the input that will be made by different actors. I think we shall see how things are going then, before I will pass some judgment on the proposal suggested by the representative for violence against Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1860	The representative, Steffensen, spoke of a further reduction in the level of taxation; more tax cuts will be carried out. It is an undeniable fact, although the Progress Party highlights modest tax cuts to people most, that it is really the most prosperous in Norway that has received the very largest tax cuts. Does the Christian People's Party have any limit on how much they can be on by further tax cuts with such an unsocial distribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1866	I was almost a little disappointed now that I didn't get a question related to bananas, but I'm going to try to answer. We have a limit, and it goes both below and above water, to say it like this. But I think the representative Serigstad Valen should be satisfied when he sees the book effect of the tax and tax arrangements for next year. It's not that far away from zero. As I have to believe, the representative Serigstad Valen also believes that this government and the similarities we make here on Stortinget are in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1871	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1874	What's a little paradox in today's debate and in the debate we had a few weeks ago, too, is that none of us have talked about the currency, the crown, which is the most important element of all, so that we can now improve the competitiveness of Norwegian business. If you look at what I tend to define as the good time, when I myself sat in government, from February 2013 – times to come, and times to roll – the crown price has fallen by 25 pst. since then. That is the main reason why we are now seeing increased investment rates in Norwegian industry. It's a little important when we're discussing tax and tax measures, where the Senter Party believes in more active use of depreciation rules and the kind of targeted tax and tax measures, and where today's governance parties have more faith in wealth taxes, that in the name of honesty we look at what are the most important drivers of the economy. What might be the main driver of the economy now is that we have a completely different trading relationship, a completely different competitive force in domestic industry, with an impairment of the krona of 25 pst. Now it'll probably rise a little bit again. It's never good with too high, as it was probably in 2013, and maybe it's too low now. It's good that it's stability. But at least the fact that we have our own currency has helped us through the bend we're in, when we have the failing oil rate that we have. What I think is important is to take up from the Central Party's tax arrangements, is that we want to use the tax regime more to ensure a better social and geographical distribution. When you look at our tax bill, all those who have less than 500,000 kroner in income will get a lower tax burden with our arrangement than with the government's arrangements. In terms of geographical distribution, we have targeted tax measures against fishing, against industry and against the transport industry. We also have some classic tax deduction schemes for Finnmark and Nord-Troms. One of the issues that has been most discussed in this year’s budget process — the details we often discuss, which means a lot — is the amount of money spent on commuting. We think it is very strange that at a time of increasing unemployment, when Robert Eriksson, as Minister of Labour, has said that people must be willing to travel longer, choose for the third consecutive year to make the commuting allowance so much worse. We should be happy and encourage people to be willing to travel when they lose their jobs. So we think it's an unwise policy at a time when people have to travel more. We've gone the other way and significantly increased the commuting deduction, because we think it's a better and much more right tool than just flat tax credits, which the government puts up with. What's also very challenging, as I was also involved in the financial debate, is that when there are four parties that have so different views, it gives some nice results. In my best faith, I can't believe this termination pay system was thought of. That it was a goal for the Christian People's Party and the Left to introduce increased taxes for 60-year-olds who lose their jobs, I can't believe. But at least what is important when it has happened, which I believe was a mistake, is that we have to be able to say that they are not going to get a shortcut in the Nav performance, and that it is being fully and clearly clarified. It is a consequence when income is collected, that in the next round you will get less unemployment. Then it gets a double effect, an even greater savings for the state than what's in the setup. I don't think it was any of the four settlement parties' wish that, in addition to getting more taxes, you would lose leave. When one sees that kind of thing happening, because things happen in the last hours of the night, one should clean it up as quickly as possible, so that not individuals are hit and there is too much uncertainty when the vacancy is on its way, as it is right now. Last year, the bag tax became one of the fun adventures for us and the nightmares for the government, and then the two paragraphs were introduced that meant that you had to pull the emergency brake. Sometimes it is wise to take tax decisions that are not thoughtful and good. Nor can I believe that the decision on a seat charge is thought out and wanted in that way, because it can't be right to have 80 kroner return in New York, as it will be, and 160 kroner return in Bodø–Svolvær. Then it has no environmental impact. It has an opposite and negative effect. Now we see that there are some negative effects domestically, because classic district routes are being laid down, and we see that today by the fact that Rygge airport can be shut down. I hope that the government and the four settlement parties go into it a little bit openly, and that you pull the emergency brake when you see that this has no effect because of the quota system, and that the consequence is that many good offers are put down.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1891	The President shall assume that the representative shall make proposals. He is allowed to do so, even if he has used up his speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1894	Yes. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1899	The representative, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, has taken up the proposals of the Centre Party. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1904	In several line changes, the representative Schlagsvold Vedum has raised the fare and shows in many ways a price-priced commitment to Norwegian business. I have to say I wish that it could also give some expression in relation to other types of framework conditions that are more general and apply to everyone. Then, of course, I am talking about the big tax and tax tightening of about 15 billion. kr that the Centre Party makes available in its budget. So you're going to step in to tighten up ownership taxes for those who are going to bet and invest in jobs in Norway. You are in favour of tightening up taxes on wealth in order to increase private capital on the road and create and secure jobs in Norway, and you are proposing a separate financial tax – a brand new element – tax on profits and work in the financial industry. This seat charge will not be slightly small compared to 15 billion. kr in general tax incentives for business?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1911	The President will remind you that all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1914	In tax and tax arrangements and tax changes, and really in all politics, I have great faith in predictability, that the things we do happen gradually and are predictable. Our tax and tax arrangements are very predictable. It's in line with what we did last year, and it's in line with what we did in government. There is a green thread in the tax system. With regard to the financial tax, there was also something we started working with in the government. This is an industry with approx. 8 B.C.E. kr in profit, and we believe that it should be taxed more like other industries. There has been a broad political commitment to it, and the Scheel Committee has also recommended a clearer taxation of that industry. So there's no unexpected taxation for the industry, and we think it's right that that industry also contributes more to the community, and that it has been temporarily too inflated in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1921	I record that the representative Battle Violence Vedum is very concerned about the level of taxes and taxes. It's basically very positive, but it's hard to see the relationship with the tax arrangements proposed by the Centre Party for 2016, which Siri Meling was also in. Among other things, it is that you put an extra burden on Norwegian owners alone, with approx. 8 B.C.E. by increasing the tax on dividends and also by tightening up the taxes on wealth. Then you can ask yourself, ‘How do you think it is, and how is the Senter Party going to manage at all to carry out so massive tax cuts without affecting the feeding of the districts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1926	In our tax system, there is a lower level of taxation than the Norwegian industry had in 2013. There is less tax and tax pressure than it was then. In the property tax, we have exempted them from commercial property – we have not wanted to value it as much as the government has wanted. And then we have the big tax-and-tax grip we do on business, there's an increased tax on the financial industry. Of course, any tax and charge has a price and a cost, but we believe – like the Scheel Committee and as the government has warned – that that industry can be taxed more, and that we can use it for other purposes. Then we have given targeted tax reliefs, for example. completely different commuting deductions from those to which the government lots have subscribed. Anyone who has less than 500,000 kroner gets tax relief, and those who have over 600,000 dollars get some tax relief. But most people get a little lower tax with our scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1932	I record that Battle violence Vedum does not answer my question. Not everyone is doing it in a line change. Nevertheless, there should be some honesty, for what is in the central party tax and tax arrangements, is among other things. a significant increase in the tax on wealth, and thus an increase in the tax on ownership by increasing the tax on dividends. There are additional elements. This is what goes directly on Norwegian ownership and affects Norwegian owners, and not the elements that Battle Violence Vedum brought out in the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1937	We don't see that like that, because it's the whole thing that counts. What we have also done in the wealth tax is, as I said in the answer, to protect commercial property in a different way from what the government has done. Business-related property acquires a lower asset value than that of the Progress Party. We have further increased the base rate in the wealth tax, and we have done targeted action where we improve the depreciation rates, which makes it more profitable in companies. We have also reduced transport costs by reducing toll charges for the transport industry and heavy goods transport. We believe that this is a very targeted approach that increases profitability here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1942	The tax proposal on financial services already mentioned shall, according to the Central Party's draft budget, increase tax revenue by more than 5 billion. kr already in 2016. As the representative knows, corporate taxes, including financial undertakings, are irrevocable. Surplus for 2016 will only be taxed in 2017. Also, the imposition of retroactive tax rules for the taxation of activity in 2015 is not legal. There are also no specific legislative proposals or legislative decisions in the current vote – at least not as I have been able to discover – from the Centre Party, nor will there be any such proposals in the financial situation. The proposal for the Central Party is in all areas impossible to implement from 1 January 2016, as the Centre Party argued. 5 B.C.E. In addition, what is unrealistic, and what additions is there in the Central Party's draft budget that they are planning to cancel and deprioritize as a result of a completely unrealistic budgeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1949	Our proposal to tax the financial industry is based on the Icelandic model. There, a clearer tax on the financial industry has been implemented after the banking crisis they had some years ago. It's been a good model and a right model. We believe that it is right to tax the financial industry more when they had a profit in 2014 of 80 billion. kr. It is a political priority we have done. We did it last year, we do it this year, and we're also going to make it next year. We believe that it is part of Norwegian business that can take a greater share of the total tax burden. I also think the government is going to make suggestions for that in the course of the year that comes, because it sees that there is no reason to tax the industry so much more than other parts of Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1954	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1957	An overarching objective for the Left in fiscal policy is a green tax shift, where the tax system is actively used to stimulate jobs and jobs, development and innovation, investment and ownership of Norwegian enterprises and to promote environmentally friendly behaviour. In concrete terms, it means lower taxes on labour, ownership and businesses, tax incentives to make environmentally friendly choices and increase taxes on pollution and environmentally hostile behaviour. Taxes and taxes are an important policy tool for steering behaviour that, in our view, has been too little used in recent years. The main priorities of the Left in the 2016 tax package are precisely a green tax shift and that the tax system is actively used to stimulate jobs and jobs, development, investment and ownership of Norwegian enterprises. All in all, Left proposes a tax and tax scheme that will result in a green tax shift of 12.5 billion. kr, and a tax scheme of approximately the same level as the government’s proposal for 2016. On Wednesday last week, the government received proposals from the Green Tax Commission. Overall, there was a report that was superior, but where the proposals put together are not sufficient to achieve the climate objectives set by the Stortinget, climate objectives that must be further strengthened following the Paris agreement. Fortunately, the Government Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left – as part of the budget agreement – have agreed that a green tax shift in 2017 will be of a size that strengthens climate reconciliation and provides significant reductions in climate change emissions. A good part of the proposals made in the Green Tax Commission can be found in the Left's proposals for the 2016 government budget, among others. a continuous and equal CO2 charge for all emissions. It is important that environmental taxes are high enough to change people's behaviour in order to have the necessary effect, and there is a lower tax for people and businesses in tax exchange, so that the freedom to choose climate-friendly is real. There is a lot on the Stortinget that is willing to apply green taxes, but does not see any point in giving tax relief back, and there are other parties that are willing to give tax relief but see no point in increasing environmental taxes. A green tax shift, as suggested by the Left, will make it more profitable for both businesses and people to make environmentally friendly choices. This is only how we measure the climate and avoid sending the climate calculation to future generations. In the left's view, the tax system must acknowledge work. Left will give most tax relief to those with the lowest or most ordinary income. The easiest way to do this is to have a deduction at the bottom of the income that benefits everyone, but that has the greatest effect on those with low and moderate incomes. The government has provided a step tax model in line with the recommendations of the Scheel selection to reduce the costs resulting from a reduction in the general tax rate from 27 to 25 pst. The left still suggests that this model can be made better and simpler and give greater ease to those with moderate and low incomes. The left has therefore proposed a model where the first step is removed, and where the other steps are raised slightly in percentage and reduced slightly at the point of entry. In addition, we have proposed an increase in the minimum deduction, an increase in the amount of personal and social security contributions. In total, these changes would result in a tax relief compared to the government’s proposal for all revenues below 1 million. kr, but most clearly for revenues between 200000 kr and 400000 kr, which will receive a net tax relief of between 2500 kr and 3000 kr. The corresponding rate will be a tax tightening for revenues above 1 million. kr. Even combined with significant environmental taxes, a normal family will come out with a good tax bill — collecting a real green tax change where it pays off to make green choices. Finally, I take up the proposals for the Left in the setting we are dealing with, which is to raise the turnover limit for annual VAT tasks, a monthly simplification for many of the smallest companies, and it is about introducing tax exemptions for the research institute – which was also very much for the government party in the previous period, but which they do not now support.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1979	The representative of Terje Breivik has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1984	It was an exciting decision on the climate agreement that came in Paris, but the concrete decisions and measures will be taken nationally. As you can see, the Green Tax Commission is important and exciting in order to get to this very green tax shift that Left talks a lot about. But the Green Tax Commission got mixed reception, including from the cooperation parties. The party of progress was quick out there blowing off a lot of proposals, especially those relating to transport, and they also admitted here at the turn of the line that they countered the green shift in the negotiations around the conciliation. The left was out saying that transport must contribute more, and we in the Workers' Party fully agree with that. My question is therefore: Will the Left be able to support a government budget for 2017 where there are no increases in car charges and where the transport sector does not contribute any more?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1989	Transport accounts for approx. one third of the total emissions in Norway, and if we are to reach the emission targets in 2020 and even strengthen them in relation to the climate agreement and now further strengthen them as a result of the Paris agreement, it is difficult to see that one is not forced to do anything with user charges or the very best CO2 charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e1997	The representative Breivik focused on two important things in his article. One is entrepreneurs and to facilitate them, create jobs, and the other is this green shift. As the representative of Mr Breivik pointed out, the Green Tax Commission recently presented its report and made several proposals there. What I could be interested in hearing more about is the combination of the green shift and stimulating more entrepreneurial activity. What steps does the representative Breivik take to combine these two important issues in our work in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2002	Thank you for an important question. The combination is actually perfect to help Norwegian business boost its competitiveness in a world market where green values are already one of the major drivers. There is no doubt that a green tax change made in the right way, such as the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Government Party set up for 2016, where a tax more one will have less of it, as pollution, and stimulates it one will have more of it, jobs and industrial development, is very good. If we combine it with all the other measures we put forward in the 2016 state budget – we are strengthening different take-up schemes, calling the user-driven technology development schemes, and not least the new exciting investment fund Renewable AS, i.e. $20 billion, to go to scaled-up technology – I think we have laid a very good foundation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2008	Does Left think it is good that Airport Director Tandberg has said that the operations on Rygge will be shut down from 1 November? Is there something that the Left applauds?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2013	The airport charge is primarily a green fee. In a green tax shift, we are, as I said from the pulpit, totally dependent on charging for pollution. Unfortunately, aeroplanes are one of the sources that are harmful to the climate. It also illustrates very well a green tax shift where a charge on the pollution itself, i.e. the flight, is applied at the same time as a user of the additional income. to introduce a lower aerodrome fuel charge that is more climate-friendly than most aircraft currently operate. In addition to giving business significant tax relief through the lowering of corporate tax, we increase their freedom to choose whether they want to use it on planes or other things. Whether the consequence is as understood in the question from Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum remains to be seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2018	The representative, Mr Breivik, stated to the Economic and Social Committee after the presentation of the State budget that he was initially in favour of a financial service charge. So it is probably not only if it is practicable from 1 January 2016, which is the question, but what is actually considered that the financial industry should have the same framework conditions as the rest of the business in Norway, and not be the benefit tax. After all, the government has determined that the financial industry is – in their national budgets they have written it. Therefore, the government proposes to introduce such a charge. Almost all opposition parties support it. What makes the Left stand out from being more fair and equal to taxation of the financial industry and other and more productive activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2025	I think I'll start by reminding the representative, Valen, of what the government itself writes in the tax proposition. For one thing, this isn't even done in any way. There is one remaining job. So it's point number 1: What type of services should be charged, how should one do it, extent etc. The main reason why the Left is skeptical is that taxes on financial services indirectly become a consumer tax. This industry also has no other option to recover a higher cost than to roll it over to the "worker" in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2032	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2035	Economic policy is the most important tool in the work of a green and fair society, and when revenues from oil finance large tax cuts to a small proportion of the population over several years, society loses opportunities for it. Increasing economic inequality may threaten the social contract in Norway — the way we have built the welfare society, and the willingness to contribute through the tax system in the long term. People have to feel that they're getting the tax they're paying. Tax revenue should therefore primarily go to the lowest income and be covered by an increased tax on the highest income and wealth. That is why I and SV want an economic policy that provides the basis for work for all, less economic differences and good welfare services for all. That is why our alternative budget, unlike the government and majority, provides the basis for lower greenhouse gas emissions, more innovation and more actual renewal of the Norwegian economy. We need a fair tax system that helps balance differences and take care of the environment. Instead of cutting taxes and the state's ability to hire teachers, firefighters, nurses, etc. we will use tax revenue to improve public welfare. That's why we want to take back every penny the government gives in social tax cuts to the richest groups in Norway. Then we have to change the tax system, so that those with high income pay more taxes and not less. Income taxes must become more progressive and fairer. It's those who have the lowest income, who have the most profit on a more progressive tax system. They, if any, need tax cuts in Norway. Therefore, everyone with income below NOK 600 000 pays less tax with the SV's alternative budget, among other things. to provide space for a greener tax system. We're increasing the tax on the highest income and on dividends. This means that the most resource-intensive people in Norway are paying for the green shift. It needs to be implemented in order to ensure that climate policies are ambitious and create new jobs and technologies. It can't be that people who make 300,000 – 350,000 kroner feel that they're the ones who are left with the bill when we're going to convert to a low-carbon society. In the spring, Stortinget will deal with the Scheel Committee's suspension and the Government's report on taxes. It will end in a tax reform that hopefully improves the Norwegian tax system. The sample proposes to lower the general tax — and so does the government — and move some tax from income to property. Properly, this will help to dampen the strong price growth of dwellings, benefits from those who own housing, to those who have to rent housing, and smooth out the biases between taxes on property and other assets. That is why I think it is quite alarming that SV is currently alone to support this point in the Scheel Committee's setting. Everyone really knows in the heart -- most in the Right know that, most in the Left know that, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party know that we need to move taxes from labour income and to property to do something about it would the price increase in the housing market and the bias in the Norwegian distribution. Then it's a little sad that no one dares to say: yes, we're going to make a broad deal, this is the time to introduce a national property tax. The time should now be against populist rhetoric. It's not about increasing taxes for people, it's about moving taxes from work to property. I hope several parties embrace that in the weeks that come, because that has to happen. We cannot continue to increase debt in our society uncontrollably. We cannot continue to increase social disparities through an increasingly diverse housing market. SV's proposals for green taxes and taxes encourage more environmentally friendly behaviour, but with as much carrot as whip. We're moving money from oil investments to future industries. We increase the rate of start-up write-offs in the companies, while removing the extra subsidies that the oil industry receives in the tax system. That's how we move more economic activity from the base to the mainland, and we give opportunities for more new jobs. Once again, this is a policy that many more parties should be able to embrace, should be implemented for the sake of the climate and for the sake of distribution. It would also have made it possible to pay for the expenses we have here and now, instead of using the savings of future generations. For there is one thing that leads to the lack of willingness to fairer taxation in this room, there is an increasing use of oil money, and a growing tax base. It's very unfortunate. That is why I take up the SV's proposal – to repair the damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2058	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2063	Sometimes I think I agree very much with SV when you talk about wanting well-being for everyone, accessible health care for everyone, good education for everyone – things that are also important to the Right. I'm kind of set out that we're going to be as unsocial, we who consistently score the highest as the country that's best to live in. The SV itself opted for the abolition of poverty. The answer when we took over in the government was that there were not 15 000 more poor children in Norway, but 15 000 more poor children. At the same time, this government has given 15 billion. kr in tax bill, but it was 15 br. kr that the government could have used to deal with child poverty. Then I wonder, was it a lack of will or a lack of priority that made you get those results?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2077	The answer is even simpler: it was a lack of excitement. SV is only about wanting to implement the instrument that the Distribution Committee said was clearly most important to eliminate child poverty. It is to reintroduce child welfare as a proper distribution system in Norway. It has not been adjusted in income since 1997 or 1998. It's very unfortunate. It must take responsibility for both the former governments, the red-green government and the current government. I can promise that if more people vote for SV, we will be able to carry out this increase in child welfare that is proven to ensure that far fewer young people have to grow up in poverty, must grow up with less opportunities than the other children, just growing up under conditions that are unworthy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2082	SV says in its notes that most people will go in plus even if you include increased fuel charges of 1 kroner per litre of diesel and 50 cents of petrol. One question might be whether SV's proposal is a sort of reward or punishment for those who listened to the former Minister of Finance from SV, Kristin Halvorsen, who said to people: Buy diesel cars. It doesn't seem like SV is a lot to trust there. Festvåg is a small place two-and-a-half miles outside Bodø. There is too little room for collective provision for people travelling to work, which applies to too many places around Norway. Children’s families need to go to Bodø for training or music. They have no choice; they have to use a passenger car. It's the ones who get the bill, not the ones who choose collectively. The question is: are they to be penalised by fees to move to central areas, or will SV take the initiative for a move grant?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2092	Now it's the Progress Party that charges people most in the districts a day, and not SV. I can read out a short account for the representative Svendsen. Imagine that you have a family of two adults and two children aged four and eight. They make 400,000 kroner each, which is below the national average, they have no wealth, the youngest child goes to kindergarten, they have a market-valued home of five million. kr, they have an average power consumption, and they have a diesel car with an average running distance per year. They want to add 3 294 kroner to all the changes in the tax and tax schedule made by SV. You can actually double your use of a diesel car and double your power consumption, and they're still going to zero. The point of that is that you don't have to punish people most. One has to make sure that it is cheaper to choose environmentally friendly, that there is more redistribution in society, and that it is those with the highest income and the highest wealth to pay for the green shift. The truth is that all income groups up to NOK 600 000 per year come out much better with SV's arrangements than with the Progress Party, even after we have introduced property taxes and increased environmental taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2099	I listened to Snorre Serigstad Valen's posts and not least what was said about a national property tax. It is also true that the parties that now form the majority have increased the taxation of secondary dwellings in the last three years. I am simply a little curious, open and questioning to the way SV wants to do this tax. Is it to be seen completely independently of what's going on at the municipal level? Should the sum be limited on the basis that someone may have low income and has problems with paying both a municipal property tax and a national property tax? I see there are some suggestions in that direction, so can the representative elaborate a little bit on what you think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2104	I'm happy for open questions. What we're proposing is a tax that has a slightly different purpose than increasing the value of the equation of the secondary dwelling. What we want to do is move an average person in Norway's taxing something from the income from work to that person and over to property. That way, people don't pay most more in taxes, but a greater share of what they pay in taxes is on housing. According to the latest report of the Central Bureau of Statistics, which actually came two weeks ago, this will lead to a dampened growth in housing prices and will have a smoothing effect on several levels in Norway. We're proposing a base subtraction of 1 million. kr and a per mill of 1 regardless of the municipal tax, as it does not result in a net tax increase for an average household in Norway. Then we also want to have a system for postponing the payment of this tax for people with low incomes, so that it is incurred as a claim for change, for example. I am also fully open to talk about other exceptions. We're not married to this model at all; that's the principle we want to make visible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2111	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2114	The fall in the oil price has contributed to the Norwegian economy now experiencing a low economic downturn. Growth in the mainland economy has slowed, and many experience insecurity for their jobs. It hurts for those affected, individuals, families, small and large businesses. Oil and gas industries will not make the same contribution to the growth of the economy as we have been accustomed to; parts of Norwegian industry must therefore turn towards new markets. Then it is important that we, among other things, has a tax system that stimulates increased investment and growth in the mainland economy. The tax system needs to adapt to new developments, tax bases have become more mobile as a result of increased trade and closer integrated markets. Norway does not want to lead a tax competition between countries, but at the same time we feel that our neighbouring countries and countries are relevant to comparing them with us, having significantly reduced corporate tax in recent years. We're a small country with an open economy. If the difference between Norway and the world around us becomes too big, it can over time weaken our competitiveness and make it less profitable to invest in Norway. This means the seventh and last fewer jobs and a more insecure economic everyday life. Tax reform is the main structural policy measure for creating new jobs. The reform involves primarily lower taxes on companies, but at the same time we lower taxes on ordinary people and make it more profitable to work. I am therefore very pleased that a broad majority in the UK supports the government's proposal to reduce the tax rate on general income for people and companies from 27 p.m. until 25 pst. The budget agreement reduces the amount of taxes incurred by 5.6 billion. kr from 2015 to 2016. It is less than the government proposed, but there are nevertheless tax reductions as monks. Since the government took over in the autumn of 2013, the tax and tax levels have been reduced by about 18 billion. kr. The government's draft budget stressed that broad groups of the population would benefit from tax relief, and I am pleased that the budgetary agreement has also provided room for lower taxes for a large majority of taxpayers. Almost 90 pst. taxpayers receive relief or unchanged tax. The average tax relief for employees is NOK 1000, while the average age pensioner receives NOK 600 in a lower tax. There will also be tax changes in 2016 that contribute to a green tax shift. In the budget agreement, we have introduced a one-off fee in an environmentally friendly way, as announced in the overall review of the revised national budget. It is also through the agreement a stage for cooperation between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left on the further follow-up of the Green Tax Commission. In addition, the government will continue to work to ensure that the tax system contributes to more efficient resource use, improve conditions for Norwegian business and stimulate more environmentally friendly choices. In the tax notice, the government has indicated that corporation tax should go down to 22 p.m. and that tax relief is granted to most people. Lower taxes on general income will make saving, investing and working more profitable. It will increase the growth of the economy and help to increase tax revenue over time. At the same time, a number of concrete baseline extensions have been proposed which provide room for reductions in interest rates, which counteract profit movements and improve resource utilisation. These are questions that will be discussed when Stortinget deals with the tax return in the new year. It's a treatment I'm looking forward to. It's important, not least that we send clear, predictable signals to business about what kind of tax system we're going to base on in the coming years. That predictability alone will be an important investment signal to Norwegian business that we now sorely need to raise capital into new growth-intensive businesses for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2129	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2132	There was, and has been, a lot of talk about a green tax change, and we have noticed the wording of the conciliation that the government should promote policies based on just the Green Tax Commission. Earlier in the line change, I asked the Left what they put in just that, the Left was clear that an increase in user charge or an increase in CO2 tax will not be avoided in the state budget for 2017. So my question is this: Is there a proposal for an increased user charge or, if necessary, an increased CO2 tax in the state budget for 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2143	This will be made clear to the representative once the four parties have done the thorough work they are about to do. It's an important work that I look forward to. I don't think that's going to be easy, because there's a little bit of different angles of incidence from the four sides. But we've shown before that we're able to make good, wide-ranging comparisons that give good results, and that's not just about using whips, but rather about using carrots. We saw this very clearly when we agreed to change the one-off charge in a more environmentally friendly way, which at the same time allows families of children to buy a safer car. So we've been able to do that. I don't want to get ahead of what we're actually going to land on, but we've said that what we're going to try to work towards is sectorial tax change, and that will mean that you just don't necessarily have to get worse out of a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2148	No, I might not have expected a concrete answer to exactly what was in the state budget, but it was also said in the change of lines by the representatives of the Progress Party – actually quite clearly – that it was the Progress Party on the Stortinget that worked against a lot of the green tax change proposals that emerged in the agreement. So my follow-up question is, therefore, in the extension of the answer that the Council of State now said, that a constructive must work for a green tax shift: Which of the proposals in the Green Tax Commission will the Progress Party in particular work and fight to get through, or will one continue to work against the line that the representative of the Progress Party has previously spoken about?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2153	I think I should remind the representative that it was the Group of the Progressive Alliance who, together with representatives of the other three cooperation parties, negotiated the agreement on the one-off fee. It was a good deal that allows us to change car charges in a good way, both in the direction of stimulating a faster replacement of the car park, more environmentally friendly cars, and not least safe, family-friendly cars. So I would say that the Group of the Progressive Alliance is contributing positively in cooperation with the other parties. How we're going to follow up on the Green Tax Commission, that remains to be seen. Their report has been known for only a few days, there is a lot to go through there, also many pages that have come from the Green Tax Commission that I have noticed that many will not discuss, namely the proposals relating to the agricultural sector, for example, which stands for 16 pst. of the emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2158	By going through the alternate budgets of the individual parties, the Council of State will see that there is a majority in favour of introducing some form of VAT on financial services. It is a model that, among other things, has been presented by the Scheel Committee, and we also note that the government in its report on tax reform at least announces that it can come. So my question is, given that there now seems to be a broad consensus on the introduction of precisely this, can the Council of States confirm that this will be important for the government to work on, so that it can be presented in the budget for 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2166	As the government announced in the tax notice, it is a proposal we are now working on further. But I have noticed that some parties in their alternative budget have proposed to introduce it as early as next year. That is what the government believes to be unrealistic. That is why we have not proposed to do so with effect from next year. But we have said that it is necessary to examine such a proposal a little better before we can promote a concrete proposal to introduce it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2171	Earlier today I visited Moss airport Rygge. The aerodrome plans a guided winding-up due to the fare – 500 direct jobs, at least 500 indirect jobs plus the employees of the airlines residing in the region. Most people will lose a low-price offer, but what's very bad, and that bothers me the most, is that hundreds of families in Eastfold go into Christmas with fear of losing their jobs until next year. Roy Steffensen earlier placed responsibility with the Minister of Finance in the debate, and then my question is: What does the Minister of Finance want to say to those families in Eastfold who are now in danger of losing their jobs next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2178	Firstly, I refer to the fee decision that Stortinget now takes. This means that we will draft a proposal for a regulation that will then be sent to the hearing, with the clear intention of avoiding distortions of competition through the way in which the fee is designed. It is important to ensure a level playing field for all operators operating in aviation. We're going to do it in a neat and proper way, of course, also so that all the actors involved can express their views on this. We have to do that when we send regulations to the hearing, and we will do that this time as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2183	Although the key elements of the Green Tax Commission's recommendation were almost canceled by representatives of the Minister of Finance's party, perhaps especially on the car tax side, I of course suggested that the Minister of Finance is standing by the budget agreement on how we should follow this up, as she confirmed. The important thing about green tax change is just a shift – increasing taxes or taxes on the one hand, but giving back with ease on the other hand, so that it becomes profitable to make green choices, for example. in the case of parking taxes for cars, to which the Minister of Finance himself referred, and which premiums zero and low-driving cars. So the question of the Minister of Finance is short and good: what steps in the recommendations of the Green Tax Commission is the Minister of Finance able to support without further delay, and where does the Minister see the need to make further improvements, so that it is easier for both businesses and people to make environmentally friendly choices?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2190	The finance minister will send the public inquiry to the hearing before I intend to have very clear opinions on the individual proposals of the Green Tax Commission. But I have found that there are many people who have had opinions on individual proposals presented by the Green Tax Commission. Large parts of the environmental movement had objections to individual elements. Most of the parties on the Stortinget have had views and objections to some of the proposals. And it was basically just as I thought when I saw the presentation of the Commission, that many can agree with the overall approach to a green shift, about the polluter-pays principle, but as soon as you start discussing individual proposals, you will have a slightly different approach to each of the concrete proposals. In the case of charging, e.g.: on the car, there are many reasons to take. It's user charges, it's purchase fees, and it's the combination of these that last and last, I think, makes a difference as to whether we can agree on a new system.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2197	I think there's a lot of criticism of the Minister of Finance on the fee side, so I'm going to have some support. I just want to say that I would like to congratulate the Minister of Finance on the introduction of an airline seat tax – that is good for the environment – and wish the Minister of Finance Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2202	I would like to wish the representative Serigstad Valen Christmas back. But I really don't feel that this debate has been so much about criticism. There has been a broad approach to the need to make the Norwegian tax system more competitive, and that is actually the most important thing we are discussing today: the conversion of corporate tax at a time when we need to increase investment to create new jobs for the future. It's one of the most important things we do. Through the tax conversion proposed by the government for Stortinget, we also clean up some of the tax types. Cleaning up the whole is a natural part of tax reform. I think we've been able to do that in a good way. At the same time, we lubricate with considerable relief both for business and for ordinary people. But Merry Christmas to the representative Serigstad Valen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2207	And in this cozy tone, we can end the line chord shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2210	The government party in the election campaign in 2013 warmly talked about tax relief for most people, but the fasitite clearly shows that it was just electoral bottle. Despite 18-19 B.C.E. In the weakened incomes of the community, people have hardly noticed anything about the cuts. The government was behind a calculation presented by VG in October. The adopted tax cuts with this government average the four million of us with the least wealth, most people, one five a day. The thousand richest get $2,100 every day. When VG tried to illustrate the difference, it was hardly possible to spend all the money on groceries in one day. For most people, however, it became a very cheap round piece, an envelope of butter and 40 cents left over to the nuts, which it was not even possible to weigh, so you just had to get a little bit of hands. The small thing that the government gives people most of the treasures with one hand, it sweeps it right back in with the other -- and well that. Children's home prices have increased and clean electricity charges are increased every year. They are constantly inventing new charges, seams if you are not always as capable of putting them into life, cf. bag tax. The commuting is to be punished. Commuting is a private matter, said Right-wing Representative, Svein Flätten, when we dealt with the financial position – a somewhat peculiar definition, you ask me. That someone simply had to commute to have work has obviously not entered the farm. In the financial debate, I claimed that government rules with people in District Norway. Now I want to add: they rule with most people facing challenges. People who lose their jobs get a solid tax boost on termination benefits. And let me stay a little bit at that. It is poorly done, unsocial and not least disrespectful to the social partners who have tariffd it. Next year it's 50 years since this was fixed. It's a bit of a birthday present for a scheme that's been very good to have for thousands of Northmen in those years! About 2000 employees have an annual benefit from this scheme, of which approximately half have to leave the labour market for health reasons, others because of redundancy or bankruptcy. In the change of lines, I asked the representative of the Party of Advancement, Roy Steffensen, several questions that many are now concerned about. I did not get an indication of the answer. But the taxation of labour market dismissal is red tape, said the representative Steffensen. It must really be this year's Christmas present. When the termination benefit is defined as remuneration, I have to ask again: will this result in a reduction in Nav's benefits? I would also like to say thank you to the Christian People's Party, who have signed up in the fight for not to happen then – and I hope the representative Syversen has good prognosis here. What about the hundreds of cases started for treatment, or cases where information collection has been started? Do you want to be taxed when the money comes to payment? That's what many people think is interesting to hear. I hope that someone here in the hall who has found this, and who thinks the taxation of people in this situation is a good idea, better than the representative Steffensen can tell them what they're waiting for. Or is this also a tax that is not thought of – a la fare for seats? It often goes fast in the swings, obviously. In terms of territory, the general people who have to pay when the government is going to cut so violently for the absolute richest of society. That's how they make blue-blue increase the differences in our country. It's almost so I'm a little surprised that you choose to be so to the degrees unsocial in your political line. But I'm very surprised that the Christian People's Party and the Left are on this line -- in some shape. I hope that for these two parties – the Left and the Christian People’s Party – this four-year test scheme will be carried out, with a learning curve that must be seen as both brutal and brutal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2227	The Labour Party's speakers, both Marthinsen and Hagebakken, talk little about their own budget - mostly about government. I understand that, because if they were to talk about their own, they had to talk about their tax increases for Norwegian business, which are going to hamper the development of jobs. They'd have to talk about their creative bookkeeping to get $5. kr via financial taxes and taxes not due in 2016. Then they had to explain to the voters which of the benefits in their budget of 10 billion. kr to be removed. Then Tore Hagebakken and Marianne Marthinsen will get a pretty considerable job. I've already demanded it from this pulpit. We should know. You can't get away from this, first with creative bookkeeping, and then wouldn't talk about your own when you're in the room here. We are committed to reducing the level of taxation, but in all areas - income taxes, top taxes, property taxes and not least corporate taxes, which are linked to the general tax rate, which is now being reduced. In order to try to be a little constructive – especially towards the Workers' Party – I am pleased that we are in favour of a reduction in company tax. Now we do not know what the Labour Party will mean since, when we come to the tax reform. It'll be important. Several have called for this today. However, it is important for the government to do this now, because it presupposes one of the most important proposals in the tax communication to be addressed over the New Year, namely to bring about a tax conversion for Norwegian companies and Norwegian companies with dynamic effects that can increase productivity, improve economic growth and ensure activity, work and conversion. This is a strong signal to Norwegian industry and to the Norwegian labour supply, but also to foreign capital that investment in new jobs can be planned in a secure and competitive tax environment. But then this must also be followed up. This will be done by the government to offset the difference between Norwegian and foreign investors in the taxation of capital. Reduced corporation tax will attract foreign corporations and non-resident owners who will not pay property taxes. What do you want to do? The representative Marthinsen is very concerned about the difference between the taxation of equity and foreign capital entering businesses. But what about the difference in the taxation of foreign capital and Norwegian capital? Isn't it just as important? Yes, I think so. Norwegian capital should not start with the addition of current investment capital. There's going to be changes. There's going to be new investments. There will be business purchases and start-ups. In that case, Norwegian and non-resident capital must be given as equal a condition as possible. The tax reform provides an opportunity to do so. I understand that when you look through the strong rhetoric of the Workers' Party here today, and when you read their alternative budget -- which you don't hear about here, but which you can read to -- they will also reduce the wealth tax. They're going to go down by 20 pst. on the stock discount. But it is simply tax relief for those who already have the most, because they own Norwegian business. The working party has created a table that only goes to $3 million. kr in income, but there are quantities that have much higher income and own many more shares, unfortunately, in large enterprises, which employ very many people. And to the Workers' Party again: My invitation is that when you're really trying to lower the tax on working capital, as you are through your proposal on a stock discount, I think you should sit down, think about, read the government's tax return and look at the invitation to the Stortingen to look at working capital. We're not talking about distribution. We're talking about creating new jobs and using the Norwegian capital that we have in competition with the foreign.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2240	While there are clearly several parties in this room who do not think so, the Progress Party believes that it is important that the values are created before they are distributed. That's absolutely necessary. It is therefore necessary to pursue a fiscal policy that provides an incentive for the creation of values. This budget is involved in doing just that. Tax policy is available to pay for welfare goods. If tax policy has been misdirected or the level is too high, we risk falling tax revenue either as a result of fewer people wanting to invest in projects, or the profitability of taxes and taxes is so low that businesses end up. Both reasons will lead to job losses, which in turn will result in lower tax input, lower consumption and thus also lower tax receipts to pay for the welfare goods. Nor can I avoid mentioning that the oil and gas business is a significant contributor to the well-being of this country in the form of taxes, taxes and profits that go into the treasury. Unfortunately, it doesn't look like all the parties in this room have got this with them. I am pleased that the Progress Party is part of a government that continues to work to keep taxpayers more of what they create in their work, by lowering the tax and tax levels and improving the tax and tax system. In particular, I am pleased that we are giving priority to facilitating the growth of the economy, in order to ensure the basis for jobs and well-being in the future. The negotiations between the government parties and the Left and the Christian People's Party led to some changes in the fees. To put it mildly, I am more satisfied with some changes in the tax regime than I am with others. Although, in my view, the level of the motor vehicle charge is too high, the changes that are being made are for the better. It's a start on the modernisation of the system that will stay in place over time. It is gratifying that the decision seems to have a broad disintegration in the Storting. In general, this system goes from charging what you think will determine which emissions you get to charging what actually comes out of the exhaust system. However, this demands that future enlargement fully implement the reform. A budgetary agreement between parties with such a different view of the world in which they are located is challenging, but ultimately the whole of the budget has to be assessed. The Progress Party does not conceal that we are disappointed with some of the items adopted in the budget, such as: the increase in the electricity charge and the much-mentioned air passenger charge. This is something that neither the Progress Party nor the Right wanted to do, but something that we had to give in to achieve in terms of the budget. I hope for the future that the Left and Christian People's Party will agree on who will take credit for these fees increases. In any case, it is a fact that the Progress Party did not wish to introduce or increase the fees, nor does it claim them. It is a proverb that says: Honor him who should be honored. We have heard in the debate on taxes and taxes that the Progress Party and the government provide solid tax credits to the citizens rather than spending the money for all kinds of good purposes. At best it must be due to a solid misunderstanding. The Progress Party does not pay five cents in tax bills or tax bills – we just don't take so much money from taxpayers. The Socialists take it as a matter of course that it is public money and that politicians give it to taxpayers. It's completely wrong, it's not something called public money. Although it doesn't sound so good, we've taken the money from the taxpayers. So when we lower taxes and taxes, in other words, we don't take that much money from people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2256	Tax is something that people are concerned about – politicians too. In the big picture, the political parties don't agree very much on this topic. The tax system itself seems to be very much in agreement, with a few shades, but there are probably more opinions about the level itself. For the Right and the Government, it is important to clarify that the values must be created before they are allocated, especially at a time when new jobs and job security are required. The heading of the budget is known as work, activity and conversion. On this basis, the tax system, and not least the level of taxation, must also be adapted to ensure that it does not break these headlines. For a person with a background in the private sector, it must be allowed to focus on the particular situation of this sector. We are totally dependent on the good framework conditions for the wider Norwegian business community. There is reason to recall that most Norwegian companies are small. Typically, there are many family interests, small businesses, with 10 employees, located in District Norway. Of course, there are also larger enterprises, which mean a lot in local communities. We want all these enterprises to survive and not least to develop so that new jobs can be created. But most importantly, all these private enterprises are able to be competitive and have framework conditions that contribute to this and that protect the jobs that are. The tax policy relating to these enterprises, their operations and owners is therefore crucial. The fact that employees have good pay and working conditions will then be a consequence of the company's well-being. Of course, the proposal to reduce the corporate tax rate, at this rate to 25 p.m., is welcome. There's several reasons for that. In order to justify this reduction, which is now proposed, it is often shown that this is in the interests of the countries to which it is natural to compare ourselves with, and, perhaps most importantly, that it will lead to increased investment and thus more jobs. Thus, a reduction in corporate tax will be growth-promoting. This is probably quite a broad consensus on it. However, my impression is that paying a tax on a profit and a positive operating result is a reasonable degree of understanding. Whether the tax rate is 22 pst. or 25 pst. In this context, perhaps not the most important thing, at least not for the small family business which in any case does not have moving plans out of the country – nor from its municipality of origin, for that matter. Far more important, the tax on wealth is linked to the same activity. The evidence from countless small and medium-sized private-sized enterprises is many. To what may be boring, some of us in this House have highlighted the unfortunate and partly devastating effects of property taxes. When private owners have to pay taxes on the assets of the enterprise, a wealth linked to the assets of the enterprise, it can have extremely adverse effects. Some may claim that the owners can only take dividends to pay their taxes in that way, and so they do, but there are many businesses that are either in deficit or simply do not have liquidity for withdrawals. What are these owners going to do? Sell the company – and in that case will there be someone who wants to buy it? The Workers' Party writes in its comments, referring to a report from Menon, that cuts in property taxes have no effect on the investments of companies. It is now a claim that seems strange, but if it was right, the property tax would have the effect that the business would simply be able to stop if the owners were unable to operate a tax based on the asset value of the company, where there is no liquidity for withdrawals. For me, the comments from the Workers' Party seem to have been made on the basis of a theoretical notion of what Norwegian business looks like, from the desk. In this case, therefore, no further reduction of the property tax has been proposed, with the exception of a minimum adjustment of the base deduction. There are reasons for this, but it does not mean that these issues should be eliminated — on the contrary. In the Storing Communication on Better Tax, to be discussed and addressed to spring, there is a chapter on targeted relief for business-related capital. It appears that the concept of ‘working capital’ does not have an incorporated and precise content, but that this area needs to be further explored. It also appears that the government in the 2017 budget will come back to a more detailed assessment of targeted relief for business-related capital. I perceive, among other things: The comments of the Christian People's Party on this matter we are now dealing with, in the same direction. It states that the party “wants relief from the property tax on working capital invested in the enterprises”. Along these lines, there is hope for a broad majority, which can do something about the unfortunate effects of the property tax on Norwegian private company owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2277	The Norwegian Constitution refers to taxes, duties and customs duties as ‘public burdens’. With this, the founding fathers signalled that even if we charge taxes and taxes, there is a burden that should neither be too heavy nor be distributed so as to prevent another constitutional provision, namely that it is up to the state authorities to facilitate that any working person can obtain his or her work. That means it's going to pay off to work, and it's going to be decent. It also means that it is worth creating work and values. This should benefit the Community from as gentle a harvest as possible in order not to destroy the basis for future growth. The 2016 government budget is a budget in which the large amount of money is spent on securing people's jobs, increasing activity and helping to take Norway safely through the changeover. Taxes and charges are more than just a flow of income to the country. The design of the tax system affects the way society looks. High charges may lead to desired changes in consumption patterns, such as: as regards consumption of alcohol and tobacco. But this also leads to Nordics going to Sweden every year for a total of 7.5 million day trips to trade. Trade has consequences in terms of both lost Norwegian jobs, reduced tax revenues to the country and increased CO2 emissions. More of this is the consequence of the increase in taxes on alcohol and tobacco by the Workers' Party — unintentionally but nevertheless a consequence. So even though all the parties at Stortinget are for customs, taxes and taxes, it is not entirely immaterial how these are designed. We should think in the same way as when we harvest from nature – take what we need, sometimes less, rarely more. We're not going to drive robbers on those who create values, even when we think they can handle it. That's maybe where we see the difference between government and opposition policy. The Right Party and the Advance Party do not take the creation of values for granted. Neither do we look at values that others have created, which belong to us just because they are there. Or as the Labour Party Jonas Gahr Støre said when TV 2 asked who has to pay more taxes on wealth with their alternative budget: ‘There are people who can take the bill.’ You have to be in a very lucky position to be so rid of the opportunities and the money of others, especially to assume that everyone can take that bill. For the problem of taxes on wealth, it is not that it affects the rich. The problem is that the tax is based on accounting values, not on real income. Therefore, the property tax is directly destructive to companies that are in the start-up phase or that are struggling. If the owner is required to make dividends, and thus to pay enough to pay both dividend taxes and property taxes, it endangers jobs. The fact that company owners have been able to take the bill in business hours does not mean that they can do it in downtime. To look at the effects of a tax, it is also necessary to consider effects in economically more difficult times. If it is not growth-enhancing to remove it, it may be growth-retardant to keep it — but all in order to be able to hold back the rhetoric about tax relief for the rich. If it were a mild rhetoric we'd live on in the future, we'd have a bright future in front of us. In 2013 they paid 10 pst. richest in Norway 38,7 p.m. of all personal taxes. If we had cut the property tax in 2013, they would have 10 pst. the richest paid 38 pst. of all personal taxes. Supporters of the extraordinary wealth tax take from investors, business owners and entrepreneurs who have proven to have created values and jobs to use this for their own new accelerator programmes, regional development funds and travel life programmes. This is to weaken companies that are initially sustainable, to themselves appear to be capable of action. I think that is a rather arrogant form of redistribution. From a tax we obviously cannot remove, to a tax we intend to introduce: after the happy results in Paris this weekend, it feels a little small to talk about climate tax for passengers. But a climate tax on flights can lead companies and business travellers, who account for the majority of domestic traffic, rather choose to conduct meetings free of charge via Skype. I am for the polluter to pay – a principle I learned in the Youth of the Advance Party, and as it surprises me that not that party gets a little closer – and believes that we should add positive incentives for the green shift, but that increasing costs is actually also an incentive to change. But I notice that the Center Party and the Workers' Party believe that people are going to fly as much as before, to secure district workplaces in front of the climate. There are many people talking about distribution when we talk about tax, but it's not possible to distribute ourselves to well-being. The values must be created before they can be distributed, and we do not fight poverty by fighting wealth. To do so, we need a good school, a competitive labour market, a creative business – and we get that if we manage knowledge and resources properly, so that they contribute to just work, activity and conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2309	As I mentioned earlier from this pulpit, I remember the Country Meeting of the Progress Party in 2013, where the current Minister of Finance attacked the Norwegian social model ten times. Now that we are adopting the third state budget from a Right-wing-Fremskrit party government, I regret to say that the Progress Party has been implemented. Thus, although the Prime Minister promised before the elections that there would be moderation in the use of oil money, the use of oil money is the answer every time the government has a challenge — yes, to such an extent that even the conservative right-wing press comments on it that way. When we look at the economic model, it's clear that the Progress Party has come through, based on the idea of taking from those who have little, and giving to those who have a lot. Regardless of the declarations about taxes on wealth, it is a reality that large tax credits are given to those who already have a lot of money. There is no coverage for it in a professional environment. Even the government's own Menon report is clear that there is perhaps some of the least effective one that can do if one is engaged in business and business taxation, which we are also concerned with. Then property taxes are less accurate. In the Scheel Committee, it is rather a clear recommendation to lighten the tax on the source and in a zero-sum game rather increase the tax on the residence tax. When it comes to the effects of having less soothsaying in society, it's something that the OECD is warning us against because it leads to a less efficient economy, but yet the government is going in that direction. On top of that, until now, the government has taken almost 2 billion. NOK directly out of the pocket of the unemployed. They have to pay. Every year they have to pay 2 billion. kr to contribute more to the community because someone else is going to contribute less. The taxation of parts of the driving compensation is an innovation that has come this year. Of course, there's more bureaucracy if you're going to have taxes on parts of the driving allowance, but there's a group that, according to the government definition, is right to take. Not least there is an increased tax on commuting. I heard during the financial debate that someone here claimed that it was an environmental tax. It must be based on a misunderstanding. Because it sounds like someone's arguing that that deduction was only for people who drive a car – and preferably diesel. But that's not it. The commuting deduction today is linked to SEK 1.50 per km – whether a tram, train or bus is running or what a driver is doing. It's simply a tax on work. It is turning the tax from green taxation to taxation on labour to increase the tax on commuting. 475 million. kr the government shall charge taxes on labour. Not least today as many people are in the situation that they have to seek new jobs, perhaps elsewhere than where they live because they have lost their jobs, it also undermines the Minister of Labour's expressed desire for greater mobility in society. Then to the termination of the compensation scheme. 60 million. kr shall be taken, found at some late night in any budgetary procedure, a well-established system which is underlined by another attack at the heart of the Norwegian model, namely that this is a tripartite matter. For many years, there has been an understanding between employers, workers and the state that by doing so, we can, together – by the employer paying, that this has been agreed, and that it is tax-free – contribute to helping Business Norway when they are in transition. But it has to be taken. It is also an attack on tripartite cooperation, which is another important part of the Norwegian model. There are a few who serve on the change of government. There's a lot of people losing on the government shift. The Norwegian model is no longer just under pressure. It's under direct attack.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2324	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2327	Finance Minister and party leader Siv Jensen avoided answering the challenges surrounding Rygge airport, she tried to speak as much about it as possible. But for those around a thousand who are in danger of losing their job in Eastfold, it doesn't help with casual talk and carnival; you have to dry up to give an answer. Is it true, as Minister of Finance, that what is happening is going to happen, or is it wrong to introduce measures that have been written in the national budget itself, which do not have an effect on the climate? The national budget states that ‘extra measures in Norway for ETS will not contribute to the reduction of total emissions from aviation in the EEA territory’ – because it is part of the ETS. Is that still true? If you still think so, it is amazing that representatives after representatives of the government parties argue for this new fee as if it were an environmental measure. In that case, at least the Minister of Finance has to dry up and that what they wrote in the national budget is not right – it is a climate action to do so, and it is wise to introduce a fee a late night hour that has not determined the consequences. Minister of Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen, who is in the Chamber, also has the full opportunity to take the floor and say that it is good for the Norwegian transport sector to now introduce that kind of charge into a hand-turn, without having it investigated. Fortunately, then, the four conciliators have been able to come to two such emergency paragraphs, Sections 3 and 4, in this fee decision, where it says that ‘single cases or situations that were not considered when the fee decision was taken’, etc. etc. may lead to a change in the level of charges. It's up to the council. The Council of State will make use of this possibility if it is now found that, for example: Smoking airport, with about a thousand jobs, is gone? Or will the Council of State choose the strategy to sit still, say as little as possible and hope that the minimum possible responsibility is placed where it belongs, precisely with the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance, who sits and blesses that the type of tax decision is going through in the Stortinget, which we know has major negative effects on the transport sector, but which the government itself says has no effect on CO2 emissions combined? And then Heidi Nordby Lunde says it's a little bit small to worry about a thousand jobs. Of course it's not small; it's very important with the thousands of jobs for the families involved. And it's very important for Haugesund that there's a well-functioning aviation there, it's very important for North Norway that there's a well-functioning aviation there – it's very important for Norway, except for Oslo Center, that we have a well-functioning aviation sector. Then we can not just impose charges without figuring out the consequences. It is not a responsible policy and it is not responsible to those who have invested large capital in Norwegian aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2349	Last Monday I was at Sandefjord Airport Torp, and today I have been to Moss Airport Rygge. I believe that the four majority parties should take far more seriously and take on the consequences of what you do. When there are 1,000 people at risk of losing their jobs at Moss Airport Back, and there has been a meeting today between the airport managers and the employees to talk about the situation, I am provoked when the financial committee's head almost makes it like they're going to shake it off and move on. For this is the reality – the reality is that Moss Airport can be shut down and jobs disappear. In Westfold, too, there is a great deal of concern about the future. One is concerned about passenger charges in isolation, and one is concerned about what will happen to the Westfold airport if Moss Airport Smoking has to be laid down, and one has to take over the bill that comes from Avinor. It has been a little strange to hear the representative Roy Steffensen first blamed for saying that this ball is now at the Council of State. It's not true, we're going to vote on this today, so Ingerd Schou, Ulf Leirstein and others who represent the states that can be hit have the opportunity to vote against. It's strange when the finance minister overturns this and says she's dealing with the decision that's made. I believe that both in Westfold and in Eastfold see that on the watch one has a finance minister from the Progress Party and a Minister of Transport from the Progress Party, the two largest private airports in Norway may be in danger of being shut down. So until the decision and the safety valve you have put in, and I will strongly encourage you to use. But it's a little mysterious – what wasn't considered when the fee decision was made? Was there at all something considered? And what is the unintended effect, when one has four partners that do not agree on what the intended effect of the fee is? The result is that many families go into Christmas with uncertainty about what will happen to their jobs. It is not useful to talk about creating jobs if you are unable to take care of the jobs you have, and a set of symbolic policies and budgetary balances over the interests of decent workers. It should not be done, and it is time to pull the emergency brake and stop this decision – for a bill should be sent of nearly 2 billion. kr to someone, one should first know what a do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2360	It was the representative Fletten who made me take the floor, because he clearly shows in his post that he does not listen, and not least that he hears what he wants to hear either. I would like to take it one more time – explain our budget – and I hope now that the representative of the government parties listens and has not taken an early Christmas holiday. Our proposal involves a value added tax for the financial industry. The representative of the fleet's own government will introduce this from 2017. We propose, as a Christian People's Party, to introduce it from 1 July 2016. This is a system that is thoroughly investigated, this is possible. We also support the government's tightening of the interest rate limit rule, and we have a supplement that includes external interest rates. We use the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Secretary of the Navy's own Ministry of Finance, conservative estimates of what this could lead to. I understand very well that the representative Fletten does not trust the Ministry of Finance's calculations. He may remember the bag tax from last year, with the adopted estimate that there was nothing of it. The representative Fleet concluded with some kind of invitation. The Labour Party has been clear in all its speeches that we are going to participate, and we are going to join in and discuss a tax settlement. I have to say I'm excited about how the Right and the Advance Party are going to lead this process, how they're going to take responsibility. We in the Workers' Party are waiting, but it is in any case crystal clear that the Workers' Party will have – and have – greater ambitions for the community than the Right has before, and neither will we want to negotiate away. The entry of the representative Fleet also shows the theoretical approach of the government to the major challenges we face. We now see the highest unemployment rate in 22 years. The government is presenting a budget with record oil spending. The tax rate does not correspond to the 127 000 who are now unemployed, when all the economists, all the reports, no matter how theoretically representative of the government parties they think they are, say that these are measures that do not work. But that's the government's biggest move. I fully agree with the Minister of Finance when she says that the most important thing we do now is to create more jobs. One might then think that the government put forward a budget that just contributed to creating more jobs, which was not just in line with the theoretical argument where one makes proposals that do not respond to the important major challenges that Norway is now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2377	At the same time, several of the parties criticising the passenger tax for business reasons are proposing to increase taxes on business by several billion dollars, among others. this Central Party, which has tax increases of 15 billion. kr higher than that presented by the government. Once I'm in the Center Party, they have also proposed to remove the tax-free system. What will it mean for airport charges if it is now to be compensated for the loss of revenue from tax-free? Where, then, is the concern for jobs for which the Central Party speaks so warmly? I would like to remind you that the changes made by the Bondevik government in the early 2000s, by releasing competition in the air, have led to a completely different price picture today than we have had in the past. It is clear that this passenger charge of 80 kroner per passenger is relatively small when you see the price picture in relation to the cost of flying. Back to business: when you look at the tax relief we give business, they will be able to pay these 80 kroner for quite a few of their employees without it being of great importance to the individual company. It is clear that Rygge is in a special situation because of their dependence on one particular company. It's a challenge. I'm going to be the first to hope that they'll be able to find the replacements that will enable them to continue their activity at Back and take care of the jobs there. But this has to be seen in a larger context. It has to be seen in the context of a green shift, where we want the polluter to take more responsibility for the climate emissions that you cause. Finally, I want to remind Dag Terje Andersen, who was involved in this Menon report on property taxes, that the Workers' Party itself, in its response to the government's tax notice, writes that they also see that the capital markets are not perfect. This means that, as in the context of the Menon report, the Workers' Party also considers that capital markets are not perfect and that having private capital is important, not least in District Norway, for businesses and jobs. There will also be an important contribution to reducing taxes on wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2390	It's strange to hear how government parties talk about how much they've done to get flight prices cheaper, and how important it is now to make them more expensive. I think it has very little confidence when one of the closest indications is that the Senter Party is in charge of a policy that makes the Norwegian districts lose their offer. I don't think that matters much. Any change to the tax-free system would have to mean a different budgetary policy towards the airports we have. At the same time, I think that you do not take into account the seriousness of the matter to a large enough extent. I don't think those who are now afraid to lose their job, whether it's on the back or – more uncertainly – on Torp, get the respect they deserve. The government parties should say, "We had something that was more important." We had something that we wanted to prioritise more. Now I will not wonder if there were measures for swimming in kindergartens or other measures, but the reality is that there is a charge that threatens jobs. It should be a responsibility. One cannot seriously call an environmental tax as high between Bodø and Stokmarknes as between Oslo and Bangkok for an environmental tax paid by the polluter. Yes, then one had taken the time to charge a fee, a fee that made us perhaps get a few fewer empty seats between the big cities where the big traffic is, which perhaps allowed some major restrictions on the part of the air traffic that is out of the European quota system. Then you would talk about policies that had an effect. This is about getting money a late night to get the budget to hang together. So to Rygge and Torp and the offer that Onkøe has on Torp. It is not just that you have received this fare. One has also received increased charges from Avinor, and one has received higher VAT. It's going to be a burden, and this is what the government chooses to do at a time when the aviation market is falling. Had it been strongly increasing, one could in a sense understand it and at best accept it, but this happens in a falling market. It's hard, it's very critical. I wish that the government parties actually understood that this is about real people, who have a real job that they're going to, and that they're now in danger of losing. Then I think that the chance that we had received some real answers had been considerably greater.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2401	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2404	With experience from the financial debate, there is some tension about which proposals from the Left actually come up to voting. But as long as it hasn't been drawn, we're at least saying that we're going to support proposal No. 9 – I also think several other parties evaluate it. And then we'll see if it comes up to voting this time, or it happens like last time, that it's drawn if it can become a majority. So at the airport fee. It is amazing to sit here and see that the Minister of Transport is more concerned with sending text messages and shaking his head than to participate in the debate when one of Norway's main airports can be shut down because of a policy The Progress Party and the government are now blessing, and it is quite fine for the leader of the party that in one of the former important counties of the Progress Party, 1000 jobs can disappear, and one dare not say that the fee is wrong. I have a last call for the Minister of Transport: to take part in the debate and defend what is now being done, otherwise we should call for this to change. I think it's a majority to change it on Stortinget if the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance so wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2412	I am not going to extend a Christmas Eve, just to respond to a direct challenge from the representative of Tvedt Solberg of the Workers' Party, who refers to the Ministry of Finance as the representative of the Flötten's own department. It's a long way from being. What's nice is that the Ministry of Finance is the same – whether it's our government that sits there, or whether it's the Tvedt Solberg party that sits there. For this reason, the Stoltenberg government also replied and wrote in 2013, when they proposed an interest-rate reduction rule, that there was no proceeds in the following year. We sometimes think differently here in the Chamber – the Norwegian Ministry of Finance is quite persistent: they believe that what is probably right every time. That's why it's probably the way – and I'm not going to repeat the expression "air money" about the Workers' Party – that I just want to say that they are a little airy, and that there is a need for a revision. The auditor is actually the Ministry of Finance, which has responded to how the effect is both booked and incurred. They've done that with respect to the interest rate constraint. They have also done so with regard to VAT on financial services. So I think it's just stretching your hands in the weather and saying that you got a little too eager to prioritize the expenditure side when you put your alternative budget and started looking for income as it turned out that unfortunately there wasn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2423	I'll just briefly comment on the challenge to the Minister of Transport. I fully agree that he should participate in a debate on a fee that he is partly responsible for implementing. Now we are in a situation where differences in Norway are increasing, where oil money consumption for the first time exceeds the net cash flow from oil, and where taxes are imposed on termination benefits, while thousands have lost their jobs, especially in the West. One would think that the debate could then reflect this a little more than it has done today. Environmental taxes will have an effect. That is a good thing, that is why environmental taxes are introduced. What determines whether we get people to work in future more climate-friendly Norway is whether we pursue a policy that stimulates more environmentally friendly production, new industry, new things we can export, etc. There I and Minister of Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen probably have quite different recipes, but I would like to congratulate him on the implementation of such a fee. I don't think it's good for a possible new increase in 2017 that over time both this debate and the previous one try to create uncertainty about a fee that a majority of the parties on Stortinget, regardless of the block, really are in favour. I really wish I didn't have to keep this post, but now I think it might hold with the airline passenger fee in this debate. If an environmental tax does not have an effect, it should also not be introduced. But we're going to introduce a lot of environmental taxes in the future, that's what all the parties are talking about. Then we have to make sure to compensate for the environmental taxes by providing tax cuts on ordinary income. We need to make sure that we have a better chance of investing in new jobs and in new industries. Sitting back, sitting down and saying no new fee anywhere is likely to give some quick points here on the platform, but there is no green shift in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2436	I'm extending the debate for a few minutes to be able to say a little more. When the Right was involved in liberalizing the aviation industry, we reduced the prices of airline tickets by about 75 pst. When one takes up as a relatively populist point that it is possible at some point that some routes are being closed down, we should remind ourselves that lately there are some 30,000 people who have lost their jobs in the oil industry, and that this has had ringing effects elsewhere in the economy, especially among those who have lived well by an industry with significant travel activities. Some of the companies say that the reason why they cut down routes is that they experience market failure, that is. they no longer have a passenger base. I am glad that the Senterpartiet has a touching concern for, among other things, Ryanair, where it is more expensive to take the air bus to the airport than it is to travel abroad with the company. And it's almost impossible to subsidize them any more in order to travel any more. If you are concerned about the climate, I believe that what we are doing with regard to the airline passenger fee is a right direction to go in. It is a climate tax according to the principle that the polluter pays – as I want – but it is not the one that makes the airlines cut routes. If you want to look at this, you can go back to looking up, for example. Moss Avis from 2011, where they say that ‘the number of domestic passengers has fallen by 66.3 per cent’ on Rygge. On the other hand, I am a bit touched by the fact that my own local airport – for me living on Grünerløkka, Rygge is one of them – is perceived by the Center as a district airport. Then, in truth, this is a far and wide country, where it is all, most of all, districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2445	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2448	It is a gentle comfort to those who have lost their jobs in the oil and gas industry, that 1000 people will lose their jobs in Eastfold. The centre lot believes in the airlines when they cut routes and justify the partly falling markets, partly increased VAT, partly increased charges and the fare on the flight. But the Center Party is committed to having jobs throughout the country. That is why we are engaged when Eastfold is at risk of losing 1,000 jobs, because we believe that value creation throughout the country also includes Eastern Europe – let it be clear – and this charge has no environmental justification to defend it. But if someone wants to figure out – in a real way – a fee, the Senter Party should of course be there to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2455	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2458	Whether or not to look at the impact of different environmental measures on workplaces, it is preferable to apply that principle evenly over. I know that many in the Center Party are followers of a new investigation of lightning trains. Should we build lightning trains, what will happen to many of the workplaces at the airports? If we increase the CO2 tax on aviation, for which I know that many in both the Center Party and the Workers' Party are in favour, what will happen to many of the jobs in the aviation industry? If we do what both the Workers' Party and the Center Party have arranged and abolished tax-free, what is going to happen to many of the workplaces at the airports? I am not saying that it is wrong to criticise the fact that a single decision is taken by the government, leading to job losses. But there is very little consistency in the criticism that comes against the government, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party, and it damages Storting's long-term ability, with a new majority, to implement good environmental policies. Instead, the Senterpartiet has good alternatives to a transport sector in Norway that is becoming increasingly dependent on aircraft.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2468	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2482	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 6-8 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2520	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that there should be a change of line of up to six lines with replies from a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2527	Let me first of all thank the Committee for a good cooperation in dealing with these three propositions. I'll try to explain a little bit about the main features of the changes proposed in the propositions. In addition, an alternative proposal has been made by the Workers' Party and the Centre for the further operation of Ferne's airport, Leirin, and I expect the parties themselves to express their views on that very point of view. The implementation of the rail reform is important for the four cooperation parties. The Ministry proposes to redispatch 2 million. NOK to a new item 21, Special operating expenditure — investigations, modernisation of the transport sector, to cover expenditure related to this work. The aim of the reform is to improve the efficiency of the rail sector, to create clearer responsibilities and to improve the provision of passengers. I register with a degree of amazement that re-posting of 2 million. kr to cover the costs of the modernisation work gives rise to serious concerns in the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, and triggers a separate remark claiming that the reform triggers large administrative resources. It is a little difficult to understand in the context of the budgetary adjustments proposed here. The government is also committed to establishing an environmental and oil protection base in Lofoten and the West Pole, and had set aside 40 million. to that in the 2015 budget. A separate secretariat has been set up to investigate the concept and its location. The progress in the work means that there is no need for more than approx. One and a half million. SEK of these funds in 2015. It's worth noting that it's set at 41.1 million. kr for this purpose in the 2016 budget. As a consequence of the 2015 budget, the Ministry of Transport has had several meetings with the Leirin Steering Group to assess the progress and potential of Ferne airport, Leirin, when the contract for the State purchase of the Fensen–Oslo air route expires on 31 March 2016. It is important that a mode of operation is put in place to ensure charter traffic and can contribute to the continued positive development of the tourism industry in the region. In my opinion, a good solution has been found that both meets the need for a transitional arrangement and provides for a new operation with local owners within a reasonable time frame. I am convinced that this will be a good solution for the region and Ferne's airport, Leirin. For programme category 21.30 Road objectives, a number of re-disposals have been made to finance actions that have been necessary to implement in 2015. I am not going to go into the individual amounts, but am pleased that there are funds set aside to repair damage to the national road network after the storm of Petra, grounded on E6 Sørkjosen in Troms, E18 Skjeggestad bru, the fire in the Gudvanga tunnel and compensation for individuals in connection with a mercury trail in the Nord-Trøndelag in 2009. Furthermore, it is proposed to increase the framework to oblige the State beyond the financial year for both major investments in the national road network and the purchase of ferry services. This is referred to in Decision II. An overall committee is concerned about the development of costs in the purchase of ferry services on both national and county roads. It is reassuring that the government focuses on both the competitive situation and cost developments, and as seen, it is already well underway to identify the causes and possible actions. It is also worth noting that the government is proposing to increase the framework for alternative use of ferry subsidies from 30 to 40 years on national road connections. In programme category 21.50 Railway applications it appeared that some investment projects show a minor consumption compared to the budget for 2015. It is important that projects keep progressing. When, for various reasons, there is a deviation towards the end of the year, I am pleased that the department prioritises the necessary maintenance and renewal and thus contributes to further reducing the maintenance run on the railway. A budgetary ageing towards the end of the year contains many small and slightly larger items. I tried to sum up some of the main lines. In addition, I would like to mention that the discount model means that Posten Norge AS will refund 39.9 million. kr in 2015, and that some redeployments are made to operation, investment and reimbursements relating to Emergency Networks based on changes in payment milestones and changes in progress. To sum up, this is a budgetary downturn that ensures a good use of allocated funds for 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2550	My post will mainly deal with Prop. 19 S for 2015–2016. The size treated Report. St. 27 for 2014-2015, Straight track – rail sector reform, before the summer of this year. The Workers' Party notes that the so-called railway reform will require large administrative resources, cf. The review of the proposition we are now dealing with. The working party disagrees with the majority of the population. It is not a well-kept secret that the Workers' Party, instead of full competition and privatisation, wants to use resources to improve railway infrastructure so that we can achieve a modern railway equipped for the future without red tape, as the government is now proposing. Exactly one year ago, Stortinget addressed the government's proposals for the 2015 government budget. A proposal was made by the Labour Party and the Central Party at the Innst. 13 S for 2014-2015 to continue the Fereners-Oslo route and further a proposal that Ferener airport, Leirin should be continued as a State owned aerodrome with operational responsibility assigned to Avinor. Unfortunately, both proposals were voted down by the majority of the population. We see that the bulk of the population has now agreed that the regular services at Ferne airport, Leirin, will cease from 31 March 2016 and that no new operations have been established for the aerodrome. This is critical. For the tourism industry in Valdres and Hallingdal, and related charter services, it is essential to continue operations at the aerodrome. It is obvious that the government does not want Avinor to operate Ferennes Airport, Leirin after 1 January 2019. Government parties have thus created considerable uncertainty for the future of the aerodrome, just as the Workers' Party warned against in this hall exactly one year ago. We therefore promote a proposal for the continuation of Fernes Airport, Leirin as State owned aerodrome with operational responsibilities assigned to Avinor until a new operating concept with the agreement of local authorities is established. Furthermore, the Workers' Party notes in this proposition that operating costs are expected in 2015 for the road development company for approximately 60 million. kr. This amount is high as the company is still in the establishment phase and has not yet built a single metre of road. For us, it is a prerequisite that the proposed redisposal from Chapter 1320 item 23 Operation and maintenance and over to the road company of 60 million. do not have any impact on planned measures in the current year. Finally, I would like to stress our strong concern about the cost development of national roads. It is essential that the Ministry follow up on the issue and come back to the Storting with proposals for concrete measures to reduce cost growth. The same problem also applies to county roads. The government needs to see the issue of national roads and county roads in the context and invite the county councils to continue their work. It is also important for the Ministry to ensure that sufficient time is put in place in the process of the conclusion of new contracts for ferry services. Several contracts were concluded in 2015, and they prove to be significantly more expensive than included, including: because there was too little time between the award of the contract and the start of the operation. This resulted in few tenderers, low competition and high price, i.e. conditions a better process would counteract, and also conditions for which the department is partly responsible. It's unfortunate. I take up the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party of the Interior. 132 S and request alternative voting between the proposal and the proposal for Decision IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2576	Representative Karianne O. Heavy has taken up the suggestion to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2579	As a representative of Uppland, I must also speak today when Leirin is being treated in the ageing process. In my opinion and in the opinion of the Centre Party, Valdres and Leirin have been voted on by the majority in this Chamber. The Valdris lost regular train traffic in 1988. Instead, you had to get an airport. Now they're also losing it. I would also like to add that if it had not been for Minister of Transport Navarsete, the E16 would not have received the expansions that are taking place above the File Mountain, and the plans that have been included in the national transport plan. In fact, I expect the extension of the most winter-proof road to Bergen to continue, regardless of the choice of tribal alternative in the future. However, back to Leirin, the Ministry of Transport has outlined in the 2015 budget a scheme in which the State involvement in the operation of the airport of Ferne is proposed to be phased down and closed during 2018, without facilitating the necessary measures to ensure charter traffic. From Valdres it has been pointed out that the report from Avinor on the operation of the charter aerodrome was poorly reviewed and characterised by visualisation. Valdres now feels that Avinor is cancelling the employees, and that the airport will close as early as April 2016, i.e. in a few months. You will then hire and authorize new staff before the next winter season when the charter traffic arrives. While «the lion’s thigh shall grow». You can't go down an airport and open it again every six months. We know that both competence and technical devices need to be maintained. This should have been clarified by the government with the local representatives before this decision is implemented. I can only see that this violates the clear intentions expressed by the Stortinget last autumn – and that this weakens the desire to secure charter traffic with state aid, which should not exclude charter flights during the summer. I recall the comments that the Central Party has had in common with the Workers' Party in this case, where there is a political arrangement that would provide better prospects for the airport at the Feners. I'm critical of the grip the majority is now going for, and I think it would provide greater security for Leirin in the future if Avinor, instead of shutting down in the summer, could operate with reduced manning to maintain basic competence and serve other flights. I notice that there has been a demand from Valdres and Uppland that the Storting should postpone the proposed approach, pending better dialogue with local and regional actors – without this appearing to make a particular impression on the majority in this room. If you had enjoyed a little bit better time in this case, you could have kept Leirin open in the coming summer season and kept the staff running the airport today. It would provide the basis for a better process, where the local actors and Avinor could work together to strengthen the basis for the further operation of Leirin. I notice that the majority are not concerned about it, and hope that others will notice it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2596	In the proposition that we're now discussing, there's a lot of different little, but important things inside. There are funds to do things with race that have gone in the course of the year, the fire in the Gudvanga tunnel we get money to clean up after, and we get funds to rebuild Skjæggstad Bru in Westfold – many such things that are important to get in place to make our infrastructure as good as possible. I fully agree with those who address the holiday situation and the cost developments that have been there. It is a little strange, however, that the Workers' Party gives the impression that there are late contracts that are the main reason why costs are going down. It testifies to a slightly black-painting approach and little realism in relation to what is actually happening. It is also a little strange if you give the impression that there are a lot of ferry companies in Norway, but that hardly any of them want to pay for the contracts. In fact, it's just about. three ferry companies that can be visited. So you can't expect dozens of companies to set up. The government has taken hold of the developments that have taken place. We are not comfortable with the cost being as they do – which is not due to the time of the contract, but simply to the pressure of a market, and that there have been many new demands that make prices go on. We have therefore started a work a long time ago just to look at the purchasing skills and how we can coordinate things in order to gain stronger purchasing power, and not leave it a seller's market. We have also looked at grips to ensure that when a new, stringent environmental requirements are met, a new boat should be able to build and contract with the yards. It's a little strange to get that criticism from the Workers' Party, which just a week ago wanted to start cancelling contracts already signed to build new ferries. Then you talk about urgent work and spending money unnecessarily. We are funding the reforms that are under way. There are reforms that will result in cutting costs and getting built-up roads and railways faster. We already see the results of the grips that the government and the bulk of the population have done. So for the first time in decades, we're reducing the maintenance run on the road and on the railway. The organisation of the road and rail sectors will continue to ensure full State control of what is happening. So it's wrong when the Workers' Party says that this is happening, it's a privatisation. But we get responsibility together in a better way. I had hoped that the Workers' Party would go into the railway reform and read what we actually proposed, instead of discussing a reform that no one in the UK has proposed. So in the road company, there is full progress on all the road projects that were to be launched. In addition, we will have the reform implemented. When the Workers' Party gives the impression that there are things that are being neglected here, it's actually not right. In aviation, there are also positive things happening. We give Avinor Air Safety AS the authority to be able to compete for assignments abroad. This will enable them to make better use of their competencies and controllers, and to generate revenue and knowledge development that will strengthen the company. I'm a little surprised to hear the debate that is now pulling out of the airport at Leirin. A short time ago, my State Secretary Aarset was at Leirin and reported on what plans the government had in view of that airport. Locally he was actually met with cheers. It's a little strange when some big-time representatives of the red-green parties here are trying to give the impression that everything is black and cruel when the actors who have actually worked on this say that this gives us a good basis for developing charter tourism in this area. It was also part of the debate we had last year, how we're going to make sure that we're going to use this airport for the purpose one now locally believes has a chance to do something about, namely, develop charter tourism. Then one local said it was right around the corner. We give a three years to complete this, and then we look on the way forward. But it is a little strange that the Workers' Party believes that one should maintain a flight that had three passengers on average because one also had visions of having charter traffic there. It's not a good economy. Not that it surprises me that the Workers' Party does not understand it, but it is actually a misuse of taxpayers' money. On the other hand, it is very focused on what the majority now do instead of giving local travel life actors the opportunity to develop a charter offer to ‘serve’ the region, without needing to spend money on keeping an airport open when there are no passengers there. There is no point in using taxpayers' money. But I am glad that the bulk of the population gives us support for the strategy we have, in both road, rail and aviation, which we have discussed here. I look forward to continuously showing the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2613	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2616	Unfortunately, as has been well explained by the Council of State, the Labour Party did not obtain a majority in order to continue the Ferener-Oslo flight in the 2015 state budget. So now the route is closed on April 1st, and you're going to bet, as it was said, at Ferne's airport as a charter airport. I guess that's good. But Uppland and Buskerud county councils say that the airport is not upgraded to take down full planes. This has resulted in a loss that is estimated at almost 6 million cost. kr only coming winter season. To be upgraded, the aerodrome must be upgraded from the so-called C to B aerodrome. As the committee writes in its majority comment, it is noted that no action has been taken on this matter. Then the question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State agree with these calculations, and will he take steps to upgrade this aerodrome from C to B, so that you can take down fully booked aeroplanes?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2621	It's a little surprising that the Workers' Party, which ruled the country eight years in a row, believes that a government council should go in and override Avinor's priorities for where to upgrade airports. I did not register that the Workers' Party did so in any case. Nor is it true that if you had continued the flight route – which on average had three people per person. flight, which was subsidized by about NOK 10 000 per flight. person – that aerodrome would be upgraded. The aerodrome would not need to upgrade to maintain the route between Oslo and Leirin, as it was then. Nor was it at any time, when they discussed this last year, a discussion about upgrading the airport. It's a wish that's come right now, in the last minute. However, I registered that when we were up and talking to local actors about what the plans were, we were met with great joy – unlike the picture that the Workers' Party is now unfortunately trying to draw.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2627	That it was joy because the airport stayed there, it's not that strange, because we all know what the alternative was -- that it hadn't been an airport there at all. So it's not so strange that you're locally positive about maintaining charter traffic. So there's a little difference between this and ordinary operations, I mean, because here's a transitional arrangement where, after three years, hopefully, you're going to leave this airport to local owners. And as they write in the letter that's expired, that if this airport isn't upgraded, that means they can't fill up the planes. Here, economic and environmental considerations must be taken into account. As I said, it is proposed to have a transitional arrangement here, where you want local owners from 1 January 2019, so that means that if you do not do that upgrade before 1 January 2019, you send at the same time a bill of perhaps 30-50 million. kr to upgrade this aerodrome. So then I'm going to ask, won't the Council of State make sure that it gets into port an agreement that also includes the airport?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2636	I think everyone who followed this debate last year and this year knows that what was wanted and what we've been saying is that the airport was important not primarily because of routes to Gardermoen, but because one now – right around the corner – could have a charter adventure where many thousands of tourists could be flown into every season. And that's the background for the government from the beginning saying that this charter tourism, we need to find a way to take care of it. So it's actually not right what the representative Juvik said, that what was the starting point here, was that the airport was to be closed, and that's why it was cheering when it turned out that it wasn't closed. It's just the wrong story of history. But it was not at any time a discussion that the airport was to be upgraded in order to manage the flight route that was already there. So once again, there's a proposal, or a demand, from the Workers' Party, that the Workers' Party itself never took up when they ran the country, and either has gone into its own alternative state budget, but they still want it to be contrived. I think it is a little strange that there is no connection between what the Workers' Party requires and what they themselves prioritise.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2643	Now it's the way it's very clear what the Workers' Party wants and thinks, but it's very unclear to those who run the private airport in the future, what it is they take over. I have now tried in two questions to ask if one agrees that it should still be so that they have to drive with 40 empty seats into this airport because one cannot accept these large planes. And then you can just keep blaming on the Workers' Party, on what we've done – whether it was the short-haul network or whether it was another airport. The question is, of course, relevant; it is relevant for those with whom an agreement is to be reached that in the future it will be possible to take down the 145-seater aeroplanes concerned at least during this season and up to 185-seater aeroplanes. This is what the letter says, and that letter has also been sent to the minister. There they say that if we're going to get to this, we have to use that capacity. So keep on blaming the Workers' Party and wondering what the Workers' Party meant, but I'm still wondering if the State Council will try to put in place a scheme that will make it possible to bring down fully booked aircraft at this airport in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2652	The first thing I would like to point out is that the Workers' Party is demanding other parties for something they themselves do not want to implement in their budgets. I just point out that there is an incoherent argumentation and realism from the Workers' Party. That's the one. The second is that in this whole process there have been charter planes at this aerodrome, without these requirements coming. I think it's a little strange that the Workers' Party thinks we're going to spend between 50 and 100 million. kr to upgrade an aerodrome that currently does not even have the certainty that 12 charter aircraft will arrive – that the Workers’ Party believes it makes sense to spend money on it. We're making it possible for charter air traffic to be tested, in line with the wishes you had last year — locally communicated. So we're going to give you a full chance of doing that. Avinor owns the airport. So time will show whether this is going to be a success, and then it'll be economics at that airport to be able to upgrade it. If it turns out that this was what you wanted, but that didn't become a reality, then it would be a little strange that the Workers' Party has already committed itself to spending as many tens of millions of dollars at an airport that would like to be left empty.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2659	Usually, state councils resort to healthy adjectives and the need to characterize their opponents when he is subjected to criticism. The representative, Mr Tung, attempted in his statement to point out that the increase in costs in the case of tenders for national road ferries, among other things. due to the fact that one has not taken sufficient time in the tender process and that several contracts concluded in 2015 proved to be significantly more expensive than intended, inter alia. because there was a short time between the contract and the start of operations. State councils write in their own proposal: ‘amongst others: because there was a short time between the publication of the contract and the start of operations, which gave rise to low competition and high prices’.» Now the Council of State says something else from the pulpit of the Storting. Is it the case that the Council of State needs to correct its own proposition, or does he want to correct his intervention from the pulpit instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2666	What is needed is to nuance a little bit of the reality history that the Workers' Party joins in such debates, for one takes hold of one argument and looks away from all the others. What the government is doing is a major effort to ensure a stronger purchasing situation for those who buy ferries – also national roads – and we have also been in contact with many county rapporteurs to see if they are interested in participating in and buying them through the state road network. Then there's a situation where the ferry market has been characterized by the fact that the providers of services have also been consolidated, while one has almost got more people who have bought a ferry. So it gives the seller's market and not the buyer's market, and it's a challenge we're addressing. Then there are some of the contracts where one now imposes stricter requirements on the environment, which means that we need to spend a little more time before publishing the long-term tender, where the new equipment is to be put into service, and that has made a few contracts that have a one- or two-year duration expensive. It is also because prices in the market have risen. But it's because you want to do what's in the government statement, that's to put more emphasis on the environment. It is not because the long-term contracts have had a worse time in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2677	We're going from the wet element back and forth to the air, and that's the Ferne airport, Leirin. I listened with interest – which I constantly do when I hear the Council of State speaking – to his picturesque presentation of how Valdres has cheered on the proposal that the government has launched that the state should in reality wind up the operation of Ferene Airport, Leirin. My question is quite simply: what players in Valdres are cheering on the government's proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2684	I didn't say that the entire Valdres jubilee, but I found that when Secretary of State John-Ragnar Aarset was present, they were the actors in Valdres who met up, very pleased with the alternative, because they said this gives us the opportunity to develop a charter airfield. And that was the whole debate last year. I think it is a little strange that one, when one is now busy with Leirin Airport, has completely forgotten the debate we had at about. the same time last year, and what was the assumption on the part of the government. I do not understand that the Workers' Party believes that using tens of thousands of kroner to fill up aeroplanes with three passengers each way is good transport policy, good environmental policy and good money use. That's what we've said, we've put down that box because it doesn't make any sense. But we contribute to the local environment being allowed to develop the tourist opportunities with the charter airport that is there. And those environments themselves said that we need a couple of years to show that this is going on. Now they get three years to it, and then we've fulfilled the wishes they initially had.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2691	I don't know who the government had asked to stand at the press conference at Ferne's airport, Leirin and applaud the government's proposals, but I've read the locals in Valdres and West Oppland after that presentation, and I really don't think I've seen a positive press release with people who think the arrangement is good. The Storting has received a letter – and I assume that the Ministry of Transport has also received a letter – 2 December from Valdres Natur- und Kulturpark, VNK, which is therefore a cooperative body between all the elected municipalities, between the county and the travel life actors in Valdres and Hemsedal. And in that letter it says that VNK will strongly ask the Stortinget to postpone the treatment of Prop. 19 S for 2015–2016, and they take strong orders away from what the government has proposed. So I ask one question: Has the council read the letter from Valdres? And question two: Who supports the government's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2701	We have not ordered anyone to set up at our press conference. We invite everyone who wants to, and there were many who met, and there were many who said that this is a good basis to build on. So I think it's a little strange that the Workers' Party manages this up to these heights when they don't even propose a penny to meet the requirements that they're making. If one is an opposition party that thinks that things should be done differently, then one should actually also show it in its own priorities. That's where I think the eagerness here to try to blackpaint what was actually tricked is very great. The willingness to show yourself how one would prioritise differently, where one would take money from to deliver money for this project, is very small.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2708	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2714	Here comes a greeting from Valdres, from someone who talks to and listens to people in Valdres. I have not heard very many who are satisfied with the government's proposals, rather on the contrary. Last year's debate, a little over a year ago in this Chamber, was quite promising on behalf of the majority in this matter. It was promised that a process would be initiated with local authorities to ensure charter traffic. In Oppland Arbeiderblad 3rd December, the day before the transport debate in this room, we could read that the Olemic Thommessen from the Right promised a “suitable” system that would guarantee travel life. Ketil Kjenseth from the Left promised to start a process "with the aim of optimal organisation, operation and further ownership". There were promising days in December last year. Today we have the answer. It is not a new form of operation simply because the state sells out and assumes that local operators will buy in. It is not tailor-made when there are no plans for the necessary investments and the department cannot even respond to whether it is assumed that the exemption from the Air Safety Authority will continue. It is in no way optimal when Avinor has offered a final package to all employees at the airport. And at least it's not optimal for travel life that operates summer charters when the airport is to be closed on 1 April. There is no good process when the government has not listened to the recordings that have come from the local steering group. This can be dismissed as criticism from the Workers' Party, but Valdres Nature and Culture Park, consisting of both rapporteurs, travel life and Uppland County Municipality, has sent a letter in which they are crystal clear about what they think. I quote from the letter: ‘The proposal for the phasing-out and winding-up of State involvement takes place so quickly that it would make it more difficult for real conversion opportunities and likely to result in the closure of the airport of Ferne within 2 to 3 years.’» That's not my claim. It comes from an integrated region. The working party will not be part of this game. We are promoting alternative proposals here today. I think it is possible to find alternative solutions, but it requires more time and a real and good dialogue with local authorities. I find it very disappointing that the majority in this room today is running from the promises that were made just a year ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2732	Fenernes Airport is an airport that can become the travel industry and region's best at an engagement and an investment by local actors. In this respect, reference is made to a joint committee which indicates that the Ministry of Transport has had several meetings with the Leirin Steering Group in order to assess the future and potential of the Fenernes Airport when the contract for the State purchase of the Fenernes-Oslo air route expires on 31 March 2016, and that the purpose of these talks has been to find an operating form for the maintenance of charter traffic. After hearing the contributions from the Workers' Party today, I'm actually a little bit in doubt whether the Workers' Party agrees with what they themselves have seen in the Committee's comments. It says that the purpose of the talks with the department is, and has been, to find a form of operation that takes care of charter traffic. There is a proposal from the Workers' Party and the Center Party, and it was claimed that one has not arrived at any new operations for the aerodrome. Is this proposal the best way to develop the aerodrome? Is the industry, local owners and the development of travel life and the future of the aerodrome lit with such an approach angle? I hope the intention is present at the Workers' Party and the Center Party, but I doubt that this performance from the Workers' Party is a good incentive for Leirin Airport. It's not about a closure – it's an unspeakable rhetoric from the Workers' Party. I know a regional airport very well – it's Stord Airport. This airport is in my home state, Hordaland. They've had a lot of fights, and dark, threatening clouds of closure. But today, Stord Airport appears as an airport with a very positive traffic development and a passenger growth of 26 pst. And it's not thanks to Avinor's operating style. But thank you for being an alternative operating concept, a lot of commitment from business, local residents, and also cross-political ability to promote the airport positively, this is working forward. Soaring predictions and political tactics do not coincide with good business development. I choose to listen to them from Valdres, Hemsedal and Hallingdal – with bet and commitment – and we in Right, and the government party, we will follow closely. We want Leirin to succeed as a charterer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2739	I think it was a humorous show on television once called ‘You should hear a lot’, and I feel that in fact today even when we hear what is being said. Last year we had two debates on Leirin in Stortinget – there was the debate on the air route between Fenernes Airport Leirin and Gardermoen, and that was the debate on the future of the airport. From the government parties we heard in the debate last year that the two issues have nothing to do with each other – the regular service is one thing, the operation of the airport is another. Some of us warned against it and said that there is a connection between the flight route and the operation of the aerodrome. No, we heard last year, there are two different debates. So – with bragging and bram – the government parties and the supporting parties went out last year and said: Now we have found a scheme – a tailor-made scheme. Like the representative Håheim, I have also gone back and found Oppland Arbeiderblad as of December 3. No one less than President Olemic Thommess – and he must be trusted: now there would be a tailor-made support for Leirin. We heard to catch later. 1311 in the State budget, Grants to regional airports, could be applicable to Fenernes Airport Leirin. There is only one catch by it: in order for one to receive support from that post, there must be scheduled flights at the aerodrome, and it decided to lay down the same majority. So now the Council of State writes to the Committee in a letter that it is not relevant for Leirin to receive grants from this item – chapter 1311. No, no, no, no, no, The Avinor model also refers to the Council of State in its correspondence with the Committee. Nor is it relevant to use ESA legislation, says the Council of State, because there is no regular service on Leirin. Therefore, Avinor is not able to operate the aerodrome, nor is it eligible for a cap. 1311, Grants to regional airports, because there's no flight there. This is a game against Leirin, against Valdres and the industry in the region, which I think is completely unheard of. I heard the representative Eidsheim talk about Stord Airport – it’s great, very good, but there is regular service. The challenge for Leirin is that it is not a regular service, because Ketil Solvik-Olsen and Torill Eidsheim have closed down – or immediately shut down in at least three months. Now I ask the question again, to both Torill Eidsheim and Ketil Solvik-Olsen and others from the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party: Which travel life actors in Hemsedal and Valdres think this is a good model? If it's a popular requirement – both among municipalities and business – and that this is a good model, then it's fine for me, but I want to hear who is for this model.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2752	I think that one in this debate is beginning to dig himself down in mose and wool. Because that's actually not what this is about. I remember so clearly the debate we had last year. Then we discussed whether it was willing in this room to subsidize each passenger from Leirin with an average of NOK 3 500, and whether it was right of us as a big crowd to use people's funds for two or three passengers. No, and why not? Because we also see that Avinor has great challenges in the rest of the country building good airports that actually go with profits. I'm referring to Oslo, I'm referring to Bergen, I'm referring to maybe a new airport in Northernland, the Polar Circle, I'm referring to moving the runway in Bodø, etc. The list is long. In that case, it may not be appropriate to subsidise each place in the absence of a market base in view of regular services, which were brought up at the end. The Ministry has been in dialogue with Valdres and the areas there to do something, including: that in 2017 the locals take over only part of Avinor’s costs to continue. In 2018, Avinor still pays half of the costs. Then we're talking about the decision last year, plus the three years that are now being added up to here in the plan. So we have four years to change. It sounds as if operating at an aerodrome is something very difficult, or – as the representative Wøien said – to operate some flight. Then the opposition, or the minority, doesn't mean that you have to have a fully operational aerodrome 24/7, with the costs that will be incurred? Then we talk ‘security’, we talk fire and rescue, we talk train services, we talk great, we talk police etc. Because it is that there are some fixed costs lying there. Being flexible and getting into a new mode of operation only when there's charter traffic there actually makes it possible to do this in the future, because it won't be that expensive. I believe that this matter is about. It will work as best we can, both the Advance Party and the Right, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left. Then we succeed, but only if we can bring down the costs on Leirin with what is now being presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2765	I guess I'm only going to see that the opposition is happy with the other transport policy, when the only thing they can put their finger on is an airport at the Ferens. Then this government has done a lot of good, because I remember at least the opposition discussions under the red-green government. Then there were a lot more themes on the wallpaper when a discussed trade. I think it's sad that the red-green parties choose so completely to talk down their own region's ability to have business. We know that in other parts of the North there are built separate airports for charter tourism. Then there's a capital in place, you have faith that you're going to fill the planes, and you're going to set it up. So here's a lifeguard because we're saying we're going to put down a three-passer air route on board, but we're going to maintain the airport for charter traffic. So it's a little bit strange to hear that no one locally supposedly is for what's happening. Now I've gone into Retriever online, and I've been searching for the discussion that's been in many newspapers in the region. What I see is that there are a lot of newspaper articles that are critical of what is happening now. All have been initiated by labour party politicians. On the other hand, I read Hallingdölen in the lead position on November 26, where it says: ‘The last week came news that Avinor would operate the Ferensen Airport, Leirin for three years until the notification was happy, and it also triggered a cheer in the tourist industry.’ [[...]] Nobody reads their local guides before they come to the Storting to criticise the government's policy in their own local areas. This reminds me very much of the discussion we had about Bakn-Bjørgo. If one goes back two years in time and reads the local view in the same region, it is the same representatives from the Workers' Party who are now spreading death and corruption over Leirin, who spread the same death and corruption over Bagn–Bjørgo and said it was going to suffer a silent death under today's government. So on the contrary, this government and today's majority are going to grant $40 million. kr more than the red-green had planned, to get ahead of the planning. We'll give 120 million. In order to reduce the amount of tolls, public funds should be used. The path that one thought would not be of, is now being realized faster and for the drivers cheaper than the government that ruled, had added up. Therefore, I am very sure that when the inhabitants of Valdres and the surrounding area see what is happening, they will see that this government also provides a better offer to those who are engaged in travel than what was planned, when the main thing about the airport at the Fernes was to have an air offer with three people per flight. Then it must be much better for us to develop the airport in terms of charter traffic, as the government now says, instead of spending all the money on having a three-person flight, which had nothing to do with tourism.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2785	I notice that the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party instead of arguing for this so-called new operating model rather characterise the case of Leirin as a debate on moose and wool, and as a debate that is very small in the big context. Let there be no doubt: I really hope people at home in Uppland, in Hallingdal and in Valdres get this debate. I think the party colleagues in the government parties may not be very proud of the debate that has been here. So let there be no doubt: if the Labour Party's proposal had received a majority last year, we would not have had this debate on uncertainty and unforeseeableness. But today, we are discussing the follow-up to the majority comment and the promises made, both in this room and in the media, that Leirin should have a tailor-made arrangement, and that one should go into a process with local authorities. Yes, there has been one meeting. That meeting did not receive any feedback from the local management group until one-sided communication was made at a press conference in Leirin. But afterwards, we have received a very clear letter from the Valdres Nature and Culture Park, which consists of rapporteurs, travel life, county council and all relevant actors in this matter, and they are asking the Storting for two things: In the short term, charter traffic must continue under the direction of Avinor, who is also being asked to operate the airport with reduced opening hours and minimum crews from 1 April 2016. It has not been met by the majority in this Chamber today. They also request the Ministry to start a process with local authorities to assess the future prospects and potential of Fenernes Airport. The only people who meet these wishes are the Workers' Party and the Centre with their proposals, which the majority unfortunately seem to vote down today. That's what we're discussing today, whether the majority has run from their promises last year or not. I'm not going to judge it, but I can refer from that letter: Valdres Nature and Culture Park believes this violates the clear intentions of the Stortinget. 13 S to ensure charter traffic with State assistance and which also did not exclude charter flights during summer time. I hope the people who are concerned about this, remember this debate. I have not heard any good arguments as to what this form of operation that is thought to have been invented. Instead, they characterise both the opposition and those occupying an important airport for a travel life and for a region that really needs growth and jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2796	Åse Michaelsen well used the term that we dig down 'in mose and wool'. I think as far as this is progress, because when we discussed Leirin a year ago, the same Åse Michaelsen compared the operation of Leirin to the operation of a sausage stall. So I think there's progress in the level of debate on the part of the government parties. Just to be clear: Me and the Workers' Party believe that the best solution for Leirin had been to have regular and charter traffic. And yes, charter traffic is the biggest traffic on Leirin. That's the best solution. There we lost last year because the government parties and the supporting parties decided that from April 1st next year we will be flying away. We accept that, because it's a decision taken. Then the second best solution is that we only have charter traffic at the airport. We've supported that. We wrote that last year, and we're writing that this year -- heartily developing Leirin as a charter airport for travel life in Hallingdal and Valdres. I really hope someone succeeds in that. The problem is that the Valdres region is reporting back to us – and that is regional cooperation with rapporteurs and opposition leaders, so it is widely political in the six municipalities it is the county, and it is business and travel-life actors – that the model is not good. Then I challenged the minister: Find one who thinks the model is good! And then he comes up with the editorial in the newspaper Hallingdølen. That's good, but he had to go to the neighborhood to find someone who agreed with him that this is a good model – certainly a nice lady or man, the editor in Hallingdølen. But it won't last. This is too bad. The municipalities and the business community are opposed. I see that the representative of Gruvan is sitting and listening, and he is a sensible man, and we have not said anything else and took a rematch on the air route, but what we are saying in the proposal from the Workers' Party and the Centre today is that the Fernes Airport Leirin is to be ‘re-established as a State owned aerodrome with operational responsibility attributed to Avinor’ until a new operational concept is established which has the agreement of local authorities. So if you can come up with a model that has connection locally, we're for it. That's the second best solution -- we're for that. But there we are not now. And so it's not going to be a good airport for the region and for business when it's the Right, the Advance Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the editor in the newspaper Hallingdölen that is for a model. This doesn't last.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2807	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Six, seven, eight. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 9-11 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2846	The Committee has no comments on cases No. 9 and 11, but I would like to make a comment on case no. 10, which are changes to the 2015 State Budget under the Ministry of Oil and Energy. On the Committee's side, we will go into and comment on the Aasta Hansteen project, where the investment effort for the project has increased by 5.2 billion. kr from the PUD was in Stortinget. The Ministry points out that the main reason for this increase is delayed design, increase in the number of design hours, late delivery, increased costs of equipment packages and raw materials and delayed progress in the construction of platform decks and hulls. Asta Hansteen is once again suspended, now from the third quarter of 2017 to the second half of 2018. The Committee notes – and seriously – that the overruns related to construction are very high, related to the contract sum on the platform and chassis. The Committee also points out that this has been notified and pointed out by the Directorate of Oil earlier in their assessment in Prop. 97 S for 2012-2013, where the Oil Directorate just pointed out that the expansion solution contained a number of elements that were new and untapped and that the expansion would take place during a period of very high activity in the petroleum industry, which could pose cost-related challenges. On the part of the Committee, we note that the development of this contract project in Korea has proved to be much more expensive, as the Directorate of Oil has pointed out, and that the choice of supplier in this case has incurred considerable additional costs and delays. The Labour Party and the Center Party have their own additional comment, which I expect representatives from those parties to point out and say a few words about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2859	That is what the chairman of the committee has now pointed out and to which the committee has been concerned in examining this new aging of the exceedances of Aasta Hansteen. 5.2 B.C.E. kr is a significant sum. But it is also true that there are other projects that have had higher cost exceedances in recent years. What is important for Stortinget is that there is as much consistency as possible between the plans presented to Stortinget and the cost estimates presented to Stortinget when Stortinget deals with development and operation plans and what is the reality. Too many times in the past, we have experienced major deviations. It imposes costs on society, and it poses issues related to activities that are not desirable. That is why, in dealing with this matter, we have been very clear about it. We believe it is important that the Storting give a signal to the government in the follow-up to this type of project for later on that there is more consistency between what is presented by cost analyses to the Storing and what is actually happening. I just want to challenge the Council of State to explain to Stortinget how he sees that one can improve the situation in the future, so that there is more consistency between what is being presented to the Billing of Costs and Analysis, and what is actually happening. Because it is quite relevant for the Storting that there is consistency between it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2868	Let me start by saying that, from the government's point of view, we probably don't see it exactly the way the big business committee does when it comes to what the Oil Directorate meant and informed both the Oil and Energy Department and, in turn, the Stortinget about the development plans. When the government of Stoltenberg in its time recommended approval of expansion solutions, it was on the recommendation of the Oil Directorate, so that it also appears in Stortinget's documents. Let me first say that I am pleased that an overall big business committee is concerned that we need to have control of the costs on the Norwegian base. This is what will make resources on a Norwegian base profitable in the long term. Many of the major development projects on Norwegian pedestals are very complex projects, which are also highly relevant to the Asta Hansteen project. The way you have chosen to build the Asta Hansteen field, which is a Spar device, will make it the world's largest Spar device, and it's going to be the first time we see a Spar device in place on a Norwegian base. Another thing that's good with the Aasta Hansteen device is that it allows the profitable exploration and extraction of gas in the sea areas outside the North, which we should all be happy about. With regard to the challenge posed by the representative of Aasland, it is that in 2013, the Oil Directorate carried out a review of major projects on Norwegian pedestal which had recently been implemented. In its report, the Directorate points out that most projects on Norwegian pedestal end up with development costs within the uncertainty range specified in the development plan when submitted to the Stortinget. The increase in the investment grant for the Aasta Hansteen expansion is 5.2 billion. kr since PUD was submitted. It's not a negligible amount, but it represents approximately. 16 pst. over PUD, and $2.4 billion. SEK of the 5.2 billion. kr may be the result of currency changes. So if you had corrected for currency changes, it would have been good within the uncertainty range that the Storting is informed about at the time of deployment. The directorate points out in the report that there are some factors that are crucial to success in the successful implementation of the project on a Norwegian base. There are elements such as thorough early-stage work, a thorough prequalification of contractors, both large and small, a clear contract strategy and good project follow-up along the way. Then both the representative Aasland and the committee are familiar with the established division of roles and responsibilities on the Norwegian base. The authorities' responsibility is to establish a predictable and stable framework for industrial activity, while companies are responsible for making commercial decisions. In this distribution of responsibilities, both the directorate and the department have strengthened the follow-up to the development projects in recent years, as we also informed the Stortinget in the staging proposition about Johan Sverdrup development this spring. The aim is precisely to reduce the likelihood of cost exceedances and delays in new development projects. There is no doubt that the representative of Aasland is right in what he says, that the directorate will have to be central to this work, and they have also strengthened the follow-up in early stages of the development projects. Both the Directorate and the Department follow-up of development projects, including: through documentation requirements and extended documentation requirements are a central part of the reinforced follow-up that is now in place. With this, I think I've said what's saying about Asta Hansteen. I want to say something else, and it is that in a time that is demanding for significant parts of the oil industry, with falling oil prices, the Stortinge also deals with today's fact that the revenue from HOUSE is 9 billion. kr above what was expected when the budget was discussed, and that is because from 1 October last year to 1 October this year Norway set a new record in gas exports at some very good prices. So in the longer term, the whole thing has been added 9 billion. more than you could see when the budget was being dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2885	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 9, 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2899	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2906	This case concerns changes to the State budget in 2015 under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The amendments were proposed in the proposal mainly under programme area 03 International Development Assistance, with submissions to increase some items with a total of about 1.7 billion. kr and reduce some other items by about 1 billion. kr. The 2015 development aid budget was also proposed to increase by slightly more than 600 ‘fresh’ million to cover parts of increased ODA-approved refugee expenditure. Overall, the Committee noted that disregarding the costs of refugees in Norway, the government is planning to spend 30.1 billion. kr in aid in 2015. This is a minority proposal in the case of the Socialist Left and a majority proposal. The circumstances in the last half of 2015 with fast-growing arrivals and therefore also very high costs of receiving refugees in Norway are well known. The arrivals of asylum have been higher than ever this autumn, and the rapid construction of the reception and auxiliary equipment has had its price. This was also the background to the proposals for regroupings promoted by the government in this matter. The Committee points out in this case that the expenditure referred to may be reported as official development assistance in line with the OECD Development Committee guidelines and that this has been Norwegian practice since the early 1990s. No one sees it as ideal to redeploy in budgets as late as the year. But extraordinary situations call for extraordinary actions. Norway should continue to be a country where people who are persecuted, subjected to war or who are at risk of their origin may seek refuge and protection, but Norway should also be a country providing humanitarian aid in emergency situations where it is. And there's no doubt that some of the world's most difficult areas in these days are Syria and the surrounding area. The humanitarian crisis is becoming more and more acute now that the war is within its fifth year. Norway is one of the biggest contributors to this area. We have increased humanitarian aid to a record level of 1.25 billion. kr goes to Syria and neighboring country this year — nearly 1.45 billion. kr. This is proposed to increase to 1.5 billion. kr in 2016. Yes, the Prime Minister has also taken the initiative of a donor country conference for Syria to be held in London in February. But then it was right here and now. It is relatively rare for a committee, such as in this case in the case of new ageing, and in this way, to promote proposals for the financial position, as the majority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence do here. We have taken into account that the UN humanitarian appeals have never been greater. The Committee points out that the World Food Programme, the World Food Programme, needs to reduce food consumption these days and that the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR, has major budgetary challenges. It's a sad fact that at the beginning of December the United Nations had only received 49 pst. of the approximately 20 billion. dollars they asked in humanitarian aid for the current year. To this end, the majority of the Committee, which I also thank here and now for a good cooperation in the matter, proposes that the budget under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs programme area 03 International Development Assistance for 2015 be aged with a strengthening of the chapter. 170, heading 74, with 100 million. kr to UNHCR and by 100 million. kr extra for cap. 170, item 73, UN Food Programme. Both amounts shall be earmarked for the efforts in Syria and the neighbourhoods. I recommend the majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2927	When we look at the government's proposals for changes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget for the current year, there is usually not much debate. Most of the time, the changes are more marked by technical adjustments. Delays in project implementation, changed cost calculations, currency relationships and other things can contribute to such changes. This year, too, we see it – in that part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget, which does not relate to development assistance, but to the management of the EEAS in other areas. Due to uncertain progress in actions under EEA funds, the appropriations are reduced to this end. In the case of the aid budget, the picture is different. A reduction of more than one billion is proposed. in the appropriations for development measures in developing countries to cover subsistence expenditure in Norway for an increased number of asylum seekers in the autumn. The Christian People's Party certainly believes that we should have covered more of that bill by increasing the aid framework more than the government did. Cut over a billion dollars in important budget chapters, which were partially specifically increased through the budgetary agreement concluded on the 2015 budget, is very problematic. I do not choose to go into it in this round, but instead I would like to make it a positive point that there is a broad majority in the Committee who, in this situation, decide to raise the aid framework by 200 million. kr to reduce the cut in Norwegian aid operations. In the situation we are now in, we have chosen to concentrate on the addition of two purposes that are strongly underfunded, and where the money can be paid immediately. There are appropriations for the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and the World Food Programme, both in urgent need of funds to help people in need in crisis areas. It is totally unsustainable when more and more children in Syria are exposed to acute malnutrition and the World Food Programme is so underfunded that they need to reduce food intake. The need for assistance is great both in Syria and in other areas of crisis. I allow myself here to mention in particular Nepal, which, because of several earthquakes and other complications, is in front of a winter that may become catastrophic. There is every reason to do more in and around Syria, but it is dangerous to forget about other crises and needs that are not in the same way still in the media searchlight. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to look at what Norway can do to Nepal – now or quickly in the new year. Unfortunately, the many budget cuts that we are not allowed to do in this round have unfortunate consequences in many areas of assistance. During the fall, in the Christian People's Party, we received a number of enquiries and concerns from aid actors who have been told that projects that would otherwise receive funding are now suddenly being informed that unfortunately there is no means available to pay aid. This shows that the extensive cuttings have their price. Current budget reductions have very unfortunate consequences. It doesn't have to repeat itself. And: We expect that in many cases it will be relevant to be able to pay out aid quickly in the new year to prevent the cessation of priority, ongoing development projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2948	I agree with everything that the representative Ropstad said. We have come into a very difficult situation with the entire aid budget because of the refugee situation we have come up with. I understand that the government has to take action to control the costs that we face, also for 2015, but I am very happy that we got the aid promise that we received in the aging process. It has been said from the pulpit that it is important to help people where they are. When we were told on the same day that we were going to make the comments on the matter, that it was cut down on the mattresses in the refugee camps, and that there was a huge deficit of funds for those who are helping those who have the worst, I think it is right for us to raise the food program and the UN High Commissioner to help them exactly what this is about. I see that I am the last recorded speaker, so I will have some questions left. The same thing as Ropstad said, there are many who have experienced the withdrawal of funds. We have heard that a group of female Nobel Prize winners who had been promised in June were informed in October-November that the funding was confiscated. I don't know if that's right, but it would have been very nice to get an answer on whether that's right, and whether there are many other organisations and actors that the government believes are in the same situation, i.e. they've got commitments and started funding projects, and then the money has been withdrawn afterwards. It would have been exciting to know who is responsible for following the expenses incurred between June and August. So I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs – whom I am fortunate to see signed – will be able to answer whether the information we have received is correct, whether it concerns many, and who will bear the costs incurred between June and October when running those types of projects. So I hope we won't get back into a situation where we have to do such a grip on the aid budget. The majority of the population have taken a lot of steps to avoid getting into that situation again, and this is not a lucky way to budget the aid budget. I think everyone in this room will agree on that. I'm glad we got the emergency aid that was needed, when we got a call from the United Nations to fund more of the food for those who are in the refugee camps in those areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2961	The Socialist Left believes that there is room to increase even more on the aid budget and on humanitarian aid, and that is why I am addressing the proposal from SV in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2966	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen then addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2969	At numerous calls, I have asked for the word – at least on two – and I hope that my post will not help half the hall to sign up on the list of speakers, although we would probably get through it too, as there are not so many in the room. There are important issues raised by two representatives. One relates to the situation in Nepal. Nepal has been through an earthquake. It was already a very poor country, and this came to the top of the challenges Nepal already had. It is positive that a new constitution has been established, a process of peace that is essential, but the new Constitution has again led to some disagreements with the great neighbour, India. With regard to Norway's contribution to Nepal, I just want to assure the representative, Ropstad, that we are very much in line. In fact, Norway is the second largest bilateral donor so far this year to Nepal humanitarianally. When you look at which neighbors are nearby, when you also know how hard Americans have been inside Nepal, I think that by being the second largest bilateral donor to Nepal, we have done a very important job. Nepal is also a focus country for assistance. Success is important not least in terms of the educational effort. It's still like a thousand schools in Nepal have to be rebuilt. There are tens of thousands of children who don't have a school to go to, so we need to look at how we can set up the school effort and the education effort, which has also increased with the budget adopted by the Stortinget. The training bet is on the rails. With regard to the humanitarian effort for next year, we have never had such a high humanitarian budget. It's a historically high budget. Then, as the representative, Skei Grande, we have also received tens of thousands of refugees and asylum seekers to Norway this year. This has led to a sharp increase in costs. That is why we have had to redispatch the aid budget to deal with refugees and asylum seekers in Norway. This is a practice that has been handled by all Norwegian governments. For example, even with a number of lower numbers of refugees and asylum seekers, approx. 10 pst. of the assistance budget for 2010 to that end. It's good to remember that too. We have done well, with the agreement that has become between the government and the Left and Christian People's Party in Stortinget, to protect the aid budget quite strongly compared to what, for example, is. the government of Sweden does. The Minister of Finance has now gone out there and said that you can get into a situation of 50 pst. the aid budget will be used for refugees and asylum seekers in Sweden in the first year. We see a trend in this direction also in Denmark, where 2 billion have been cut in addition. kr in the aid budget – while we have redispatched in line with the legislation. We see the same trend in the Netherlands, and we see it in Finland, as cuts in the aid budget. So I think we have reached a good compromise, but I do not believe in a situation where we see a historical migration wave, that we in Norway can protect ourselves completely from it. We also need to use the resources available — and it is aid to use it for refugees and asylum seekers who need help in Norway too, but it must be a balance. I think we have found that balance. Skei Grande was also concerned about, among others. former Peace Prize winners who have applied for support through Norad. That matter became known to me, and they have been paid this aid in the current year, in 2015. Of course, we need to have a continuous review of organisations that carry out the kind of peace activity. It is important that it is also combined with local measures, that it is a follow-up. These have now received the support for the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2988	It was not possible to take a line, so I just want to thank the Council of State for what he underlines, and I will again also underline my point, or Christian People's Party's concerns regarding Nepal. One thing is that we've given a lot in 2015, but we know that when the cameras disappear from a country or an area that has been hit by a crisis, like Nepal, the funds also disappear. That is why I would like to stress once again that one thing is 2015, but the crisis they seem to be entering now, it is important that the Foreign Minister takes it with him. In this respect, I was also encouraged to look at the possibilities of using some of the funds in the future, for example. the entry ‘transitional assistance’, now in place, to be able to continue, inter alia. the training effort, as underlined by the Council of State. I also agree with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs says about finding a balance in terms of refugee expenditure. At least there is a better balance now than what was when the budget came to the Storting earlier in the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e2995	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e3009	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e3023	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e3037	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e3051	No one has asked for the floor. The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 17 to 22 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The cases relate to the second processing of legal acts, and to the law decisions 25–30.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e3122	No one has asked for the floor. There will be a call to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e3130	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e3138	A total of 37 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Torgeir Micaelsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 2-14, by Mr Micaelsen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 15, by Mr Micaelsen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 16, by Mr Micasen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 17, from Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 18–25, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 26-30, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party, proposals Nos. 31-37, from Audun Lysbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 31 and 32, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asked to put in place a system in which permanent agencies and hospitals are required to inform about where and how patients can get the best and the fastest possible treatment.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to make proposals as soon as possible to impose severe sanctions on municipalities which force elderly people in nursing homes to live in double rooms against their will.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e3187	There is a vote on proposal No. 33, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a sample to be set up to review and document the impact of current drug policies.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e3206	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 34, 36 and 37, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure full transparency about assessments and conclusions in the professional review of medical consumables by the Health Economic Management.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that organisations for the human beings concerned and other important professional environments are included in advice when revising the product lists for medical consumables in order to ensure that the professional basis for any changes is sound and correct.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the cessation of the phase-out of medical consumables, for example for people with stoma, which cannot be strictly justified on a professional basis.’ The Workers' Party and the Centre have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e3235	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 27 and 30, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asking for public specialist approval by the end of 2016 for physiotherapists with advanced training in manual therapy and psychomotor physiotherapy.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the imposition of the obligation to pay for patients who are ready to print and to provide immediate assistance in the field of mental health and drugs by 1 January 2020 at the earliest.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e3257	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 26, 28 and 29, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to clarify to the regional health establishments that the ISF should not operate at the hospital and department level.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘During 2016, the government is asked to submit to the Stortinget an action plan to strengthen the decentralised medical services in Norway.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide medical services in KAD departments for specialist training, even if the doctor works in the KAD department for more than 50 %.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e3286	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19–21 and Nos. 25, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to restore the important competence environment and treatment provision of the Bodø trauma treatment unit.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: «The government asks the government to ensure that the local hospital offer at Oslo University Hospital is extended, including the restoration of Aker Hospital as a fully-fledged local hospital.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that critical operational tasks in hospitals, such as cleaning, are performed as internal operations rather than outsourced to competition.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide the Stortinget with the results of the review of the product and price lists of medical consumables by the Health Economic Administration as soon as possible.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e3318	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18 and 22–24, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2017 is asked to launch a strengthening of patient and user representatives in line with the recommendations of the Health Directorate and to integrate healthcare into the municipalities in the notification schemes of the National Knowledge Centre and the State Health Authority.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that hospitals continue to employ people in permanent positions, in order to ensure the competence and security of alerting in our hospitals.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the liability for ready-to-print patients ceases for patients who are seriously ill and considered to be in the final phase of life and is replaced by professionally based cooperation agreements on trajectory.’; Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote the cause of the Storting on the priorities of and in the dental service of the future.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e3352	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative as soon as possible to bring together actors who can contribute to health and welfare technologies related to the reception and follow-up of newly arrived refugees and asylum seekers, such as NORAD, aid organisations, colleges, Abelia and commercial actors such as Telenor and CISCO, in order to assess possible pilot projects to strengthen capacity, quality and distribution of resources in the health sector.’; The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e3371	There is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government, within the revised national budget 2016, to submit a phase-out plan for the radiation capacity for cancer treatment in Norway.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e3390	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an obliging school health promotion plan during 2016.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e3410	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 5, 8, 10 and 13, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to provide up-to-date ICT and healthcare quality information during the ageing period, in order to explain progress and launch new measures to achieve the objectives of the Report. St. 9 One contains – one journal, and Report. [[2012-2013]] [[2012-2013]] St. 10 Good quality — safe services.’» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that tasks of normal operation are carried out internally in the hospitals, not through the use of cost-effective consultants.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a treatment-based research project for MS patients at Haukeland University Hospital and to provide specific funding in the revised national budget for 2016.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to finance the further operation of Hysnes Helsefort within the appropriations for the State budget for 2016, so that operations are financed throughout the year and the first half of 2017.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a system that ensures clear responsibilities, training and good drug management for children with diabetes in kindergartens and schools.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e3447	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3, 4, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12 and 14, of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that all parts of the specialist health service, including the prehospital services, have access to the national core file.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that hearing and tinnitus data are included in HUNT 4. ‘... Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked to reintroduce the objectives of increasing the number of employees offered full-time jobs.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that hospitals take the lead in ensuring adequate apprenticeships, both for the health sector and for all other relevant education.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that hospitals in the four municipalities of Nord-Troms – Nordreisa, Skjervøy, Kåfjord and Kvänangen – continue from 1 January 2016 on the basis of a model that the municipalities themselves find useful and at the same time provide the best services to the population of the region.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that security housing is part of the HBSB’s grant scheme.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a stepping-up plan for mental health work in the municipalities with special priority for children and young people.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to promote its own action to strengthen the provision of health services in criminal matters, in particular in the areas of drugs and mental health.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e3502	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, Christian People's Party, Left and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out attempts to transfer four-year controls to kindergartens.’ The President makes it clear that this is a sharp vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e3521	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 35, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘As soon as possible, and at the latest in the revised national budget 2016, the government is asked to report on the impact of cuts in medical consumables, both economically and socially, on society and on individuals who need consumables.’ The Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Green Party and the Centre have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e6828	This case concerns Inner. 3 S for 2015–2016 from the Financial Committee on Taxes, Fees and Customs 2016. A total of 17 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Mr Slagsvold Vedum, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the proposals No. 6-10, by Terje Breivik, on behalf of the Left-wing proposal No. 11-17, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party In order to reduce the number of votes cast, the President, after convening with the members of the Financial Committee, will propose a reunited voting order. The main positions of the different batches are clearly highlighted in the settings and shown in addition to the Input. 2 S for 2015–2016 and 4 L for 2015–2016. It will in practice mean that when we have voted on all the minority proposals, none of the parties will vote against the vote's recommendation. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against a party on a later occasion. – No objection has been raised against this, and it will be made in such a way. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11, 13 and 14 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: «As part of the introduction of a national property tax, the government is asked to propose the right to defer the payment of property tax for the change of dwelling.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that areas of the country without satisfactory alternatives to aeroplanes are not disproportionately affected by the new charge in the design of the new air passenger charge.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose a new model for the reintroduction of the inheritance tax in the context of the 2017 State budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e6878	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 15–17, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a proposal to limit the possibility of deducting interest expenditure, for example by gradually stepping down over several years or introducing a ceiling of maximum deduction.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Commission requests the Government to submit proposals to the revised national budget to wind up the refund scheme for the CO2 levy on the fishing fleet from 1 October 2015, with the possibility for the industry to set up a fund by model of the NOX fund committed to 25 pst. cut in CO2 emissions by 2020 and 50 pst. by 2025.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government in its proposal for a revised national budget to propose the introduction of an ordinary mineral oil levy from 1 October 2015, for industries which currently have a low mineral oil tax rate, with the possibility for the industry to set up a fund on a model basis from the NOX fund committed to 25 pst. cut in CO2 emissions by 2020 and 50 pst. by 2025.» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government in its proposal for a revised national budget to propose a non-proprietary proposal for a base charge on disposable packaging differing on the basis of recycled or non-fossil plastic content with approved documentation and control by independent third parties.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e6927	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size is in line with the government’s proposal for a decision to raise taxes on income and wealth, etc. for the income year 2016 with the following change: § 6-2 is replaced by the following: Deductions calculated under the tax law § 6-48 shall not exceed SEK 21 500 for each child.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e6948	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7, 8 and 10, from the left. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests the strengthening of the Tax Find Scheme by increasing the maximum hourly rate rule.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to strengthen the Tax Find Scheme by removing the rule that staff and indirect costs limit the number of hours for its own employees to a maximum of 1850 hours per year. years.’» Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The government is asked to reintroduce the Unremunerated Research Effort Scheme.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e6977	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to introduce an additional criterion for the deduction of the Tax Fund scheme related to R & D relating to climate, environment and energy efficiency.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e6996	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 4 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the power plant tax, with a view to proposing changes that help restore the distribution of the hydropower wealth that a large majority of the power plant tax was at the root of the power tax reform.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘In the context of the revised national budget 2016, the government is asked to propose changes to the user charge, within a province-neutral framework, whereby biofuels blended with petrol and auto-diesel are exempted from the user fee.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e7018	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 5 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government asks the government to provide compensation to the affected areas at least equal to the crowns resulting from the loss of a differentiated employer’s fee. ‘... Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘In the context of the revised national budget 2016, the government asks the Government to present an evaluation of the limit for duty-free consignments of goods of NOK 350, including the consequences for the state and Norwegian industry that consignments of goods of NOK 350 are free of charge.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e7042	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to propose compensation to the areas concerned in the context of changes in the differentiated employer tax made in the 2016 government budget, at the latest in the context of the review of the 2016 national budget.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e7061	We have now finished voting on the minority proposals, and the president recalls what was said initially about voting order.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e12799	This applies to Innst. 4 L for 2015–2016, referral of the Financial Committee on Taxes, Fees and Customs 2016 – legislative cases. A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Marianne Marthinsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 2-4, by Terje Breivik, on behalf of Left-wing proposal No. 5, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party It will be voted in the same way in this case as in the previous case. The main positions of the different batches are clearly highlighted in the settings and shown in addition to the Input. 2 S for 2015–2016 and Innst. 3 S for 2015–2016. When we've voted on all the minority proposals, none of the parties will vote against the vote's recommendation. The President also stresses here as the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against a party on a later occasion. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose a tax deduction for energy efficiency measures in private buildings of up to SEK 50000.’ [[reduction in income]] [[material and labour costs]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e12838	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e12872	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘In Law No 19 June 2009 58 on value added tax is amended as follows: [[VAT Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e12927	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to come back with a separate case for a new model for setting the standard rate and the level of interest in the State Lending Fund for Education and the House Bank.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e12946	Then we have voted on all the minority proposals, and the vote's recommendation remains. The President again recalls what was said initially about the agreed voting order.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e14270	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e14280	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e14304	During the debate, Karianne O. Tongue put forward a proposal, proposal No. 1 on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the continuation of Fenernes Airport Leirin as State-owned operating aerodrome attributed to Avinor until a new operating concept with the agreement of local authorities is established.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e14695	Alternatively, between the Committee's position on IV and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e16037	During the debate Snorre Serigstad Valen put forward a proposal, No. 1, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2015 is amended as follows: Cape VerdePostDestinationCrones170FN organisations, etc.73World food programme [[UNAIDS]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e18529	Case No. 17–22 are the second time legal proceedings and relate to the legislative decisions from 25 to 30. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-14.ana.ud589e18543	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
