ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e98	The representatives Sverre Myrli and Morten Wold, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative, Mr Mandt, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e109	On behalf of Rigmor Aasrud, Arild Grande, Hege Haukeland Liadal, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and myself, I would like to promote a sales of representatives on the lawmaking of the Youth Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e114	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e130	The Presidency is presenting today its position on the regulation of remuneration to the representatives of the big business and the members of the government. The Presidency promotes a unanimous proposal that the Stortinget set out the remuneration proposed by the Enlarged Bureau in its position. The Commission has obtained information from several teams to monitor wage developments in Norwegian working life, from both private and public activities. The Commission also refers to the agreement on the level of settlement of the year. As in previous years, the Wage and Occupational Pensions Commission has focused on the expected annual wage growth at year-to-year settlement. The position of the Wage and Wage Commission represents an annual wage increase in 2015 for the gross domestic product representatives and the government’s 2,7 p.m. members, on the basis of calculated annual wage growth in both the state, municipal and private sectors. The Presidency indicates that the Wage and Wage Commission has looked at the wage developments of gross domestic product representatives and government members in relation to general wage developments as well as central government leadership groups in the period 1999–2013. To this end, the Wage and Employment Commission comments on the fact that in the development of wages and salaries between the above-mentioned management groups and grossing-up representatives and government members, a distance has developed over time. The Presidency notes that the Commission in its settlement of the year does not consider it appropriate to make changes to the method of calculation of remuneration, and furthermore that the Commission in its forthcoming salary settlement will come back to the way in which the distance of wage developments is to be dealt with. On this basis, the recommendation of the Presidency is recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e145	This year, as in the past, SV will present its own proposal in this matter. It has been distributed, and it is a rich proposal. That's not what's on the Storting's website, it's a rich proposal. The reason why we're doing this is: Point 1: We believe that the Grand Prix payroll commission is not a suitable tool for determining the salary of the Grand Prix. The size has to deal with it, that's what we're doing now, so we have to take a stand for it. Point 2: When you regulate pay by percentage, those who have a high salary get a much higher salary increase in dollars and ears than those who have a low salary. Those who have a low salary can sign up for that – to put it like that – 2 pst. of 800000 kroner is something completely different than 2 pst. of 200000 kroner. It's dollars and cents we pay both food, rent and all of the other things with, so saying that you have an equal wage trend when you have the same percentage, at least don't match when you're going to live your life in a normal everyday life. We in SV believe that the Storting should be restrained from raising its own wages by more than the average of the population gets, and therefore our proposal is that we should increase it by an average crown of what has been the wage development for others. For the Prime Minister's salary, we propose that we freeze now, and that means in practice, when you consider the overhang, that the Prime Minister should nevertheless receive a crown supplement of 16 000. We believe that this is a good salary level. Storing and government should have a good salary level, but they should not have a salary level that is far different from that of the common people. We sit and decide what other people should have when they're in, for example. different types of life crises, or what to get when they don’t have a salary, and we decide what to do in different areas – and if our own situation is completely absent, we think it’s wrong. We must be representatives of the people, and we must have a level of our salaries that is fairly good – that is – but it should not be completely different. Therefore, SV is also very much aware of the signals that are now coming from the Grand Duchy's payroll commission, that it is now necessary to look more closely at wage developments among government leaders. If the leaders of the state move from the payroll level, it is the payroll policy that needs to be addressed and slowed down, before doing the opposite, i.e. to say that then the payroll representatives and government members are to be paid. There is a need for smaller differences and no major differences, and the Storing shall not contribute with its own wage policy to increasing differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e158	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e189	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes and Environment Party Green 10 minutes. The President will also propose that three lines of reply be given after submissions by the main speakers of the parties and six lines of reply after submissions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e200	Let me start the debate on the police of the future by stating that we in Norway have a very competent and motivated police force. The day around the year, they do their utmost to create safe communities. This debate and the whole reform of the police force are about making the police even better able to solve their social mission. Over several years, it has become clearer that a reform of the police is needed. Crime trends are facing new challenges for the police. The police analysis is clear on this, and it was stated in the report of the Gjørv Commission: ‘The ability of the authorities to protect the human beings in the Outlying Sea failed. A faster police action was really possible. The perpetrator could have stopped earlier 22/7.» This reinforces the need for reform and provides a gloomy backbone for reform. So preparedness, culture and leadership are very important issues in this debate. In addition, experience up to these days has shown that research is a subject that also needs to be raised more clearly. In March the government presented its proposal for the development of the Norwegian police, based on an agreement between the government parties and the left. The proposition of the near-police reform paves the way for the police of the future. It lays the foundation for good police services throughout the country. Action by the neighbourhood reform in both quality and structure will shape the Norwegian police in the next 20–30 years. Today’s organisation in 27 police districts has resulted in far too many differences between police districts and has made it difficult to develop strong enough professional environments in the smaller and medium-sized police districts. Close police reform addresses this and reduces the number of police districts from 27 to 12. With 12 police districts, larger and more robust professional environments are created to investigate and prevent crime, and there are good conditions for having specialist environments that can be developed and maintained over time in each police district, while improving and strengthening the coordination of police response resources. The co-location of police operation centres and fire brigade emergency services does the same. Today’s police district structure has provided accidental centralisation. As a result, the large police districts and the national special agencies of the police have been allocated relatively much of the police’s overall resources. The structural changes in the near-police reform address these challenges and allocate policy relevance and capacity more evenly across the country. The close police reform strengthens the closeness and presence of the police in which the population lives and facilitates a police service that meets the expectations of professional competence in prevention, investigation, preparedness and availability. The organisation of the police shall be organised in such a way as to enable the public to feel that it has an accessible police force when the police services are needed. Availability and preparedness are not ensured by maintaining a short-term, low-staffing labour office, but with more police officers competent to deal with the situations that may arise. The objective of the close police reform is to establish a close police force, operational, visible and accessible, with the capacity and competence to prevent, investigate and prosecute criminal acts, and to ensure the security of citizens. It shall have local anchoring, close contact with the surrounding environment and good cooperation between actors such as non-governmental organisations, municipalities and business. The report from the Gjørv Commission stresses that culture, attitudes and leadership were crucial for the good parts of police management, and those who did not go well. That is why the near-police reform promises leadership, culture and policing attitudes. A trust-based approach has been chosen. Good management and culture is not something that can be adopted politically or something that comes into place overnight. Police management must be based on professional freedom, trust in employees and clear responsibilities. For the Right, it has been important to give the police both confidence and space for action when they are about to begin the extensive conversion work that will lead to the police of the future. An appropriate structure and organisation is an important prerequisite for good governance. With 12 police districts and delegation of decision-making powers to the police, conditions are set up to enable the police director and the country’s police officers to exercise effective strategic direction of the country’s police. But at the same time, let me stress very clearly that the police manage the monopoly of civil society for the exercise of power. This exercise of power must be governed by clear political requirements, decisions, limitations and control mechanisms in the form of laws, regulations and budgets. Strengthening management training in the police, recruitment from outside and management training from other institutions are some of the measures that will help ensure the provision of new impulses to managers and better anchor management in the establishment. Experience learning shall be strengthened and systematised. I would like to thank the parties in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for their cooperation. The government's proposal would be given to the majority in the Grand Duchy by the Left. However, it was important for the government parties and the Left to facilitate a broad political settlement when we are about to launch a course for the future police. It is the responsibility of a common political responsibility to ensure the necessary stability and predictability of the police. It enhances the security of the community, improves the security of society and enables the police to develop better services for citizens. The broad agreement with the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party is therefore very important, and it means much more than the mathematical sum of the number of large-scale representatives who are voting for the near-police reform today. I will commend the constructive and solution-oriented approach of these parties. I would also like to highlight the good and honest discussions we have had with the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Greens. We agree a lot, even if they don't participate in the deal. The agreement continues the main priorities and the main lines of the proposition. It reinforces and clarifies what is proposed on the research side and gives clear political signals of increased quality. The prosecution authority is also very important in this picture. That is why a prosecution analysis must be carried out. The settlement clarifies local participation in the change process of service locations. The decision-making authority is with the police, but the municipalities concerned are more closely involved in the process. Local democratic considerations are addressed through clear demands for local anchoring and through political handling of complaints from municipalities that disagree with the decision of the police. The agreement underlines the importance of crime prevention and the importance of halting the development of crime at an early stage. A well-functioning interface between police and community is a prerequisite for good prevention and crime prevention. The agreement has resulted in some adaptations to the structure of the 12 police districts. The exposure has been strong and positive in several places in the country to influence the borderline between districts. Both the proposition and the conciliation have assessed and balanced these on the basis of police advice and local wishes. The majority today gives a mission to the Ministry of Justice, and therefore also to the police – a mission that is becoming very demanding and very important. Police shall now initiate organisational processes, professional development processes and management development processes to an extent that is lacking in the history of Norwegian police. The size has great expectations, and we make strong demands. We do that in confidence in the professional integrity, the strong social commitment and the common understanding of the social mission of the establishment. I wish everyone involved the best of luck. Finally – to the vote: the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will vote in favour of proposal 1, from the Labour Party and the Centre, on the liability of the socket.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e250	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e253	Today we are dealing with a major and important issue and an important reform for the police, but we have experience that when major and important reforms are put into effect, they do not have the effect that we want, either in the short term or in the long term. A SINTEF report shows that the aggregation of Health South and Health East to new Health South-East has not brought any benefits, whether professional or economic, in the health sector. In this case, the Ministry has also not outlined a comprehensive profit implementation or an overall additional cost of the reform. So my question to the Right is, will the Right and the Government ensure that there will be a profit-making realization in the conversion of the police, so that we get more police force out into our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e258	The answer is short and well yes, and let me elaborate on it further: I feel that the underlying agreement for the proposition, the proposition itself, and not least the conciliation in the Judicial Committee, underlines the very point made by the representative Asphjell. We're doing this to get results, we're doing this to secure society, increase preparedness and strengthen society's ability to deal with unwanted events. Getting measurable results is important to the government and all of us. This is why evaluations have been submitted, and we need to have further investigations in important areas, which will make this more visible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e263	Response time is an important part of preparedness. It says something about when the citizens can expect the police to come, and lays the lead on where the police are going to be. A right-wing rapporteur and former member of the Andøy Municipality of Nordland said to the NRK in February this year that he was very concerned about the response time in his district. Nordic countries have long distances, and based on response time requirements, there will be a rather large percentage in Northern Ireland that will not be entitled to help within a certain number of minutes. There may be quite a number in districts like Nordland. Does the representative, Mr. Werp, think it acceptable that the police should not be in a disembark in 45 minutes many places in Northern and other districts, of which we have more in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e272	The rapporteur, Mr Solsvik, who is also a former Member of the same municipality, has a strong commitment to his community, his municipality and security there – in line with all the other rapporteurs of the country. We have done so in this case by saying that for the first time from Stortinget's side, we are making strict response time demands to the police. It is – I would call it – daring, but it is important, and it is necessary, precisely to ensure the commitment to increased security in the community of which rapporteurs and other local representatives are concerned. The representative of Sjelmo Nordås thus also addresses another important aspect of this: What should society's risk aspect be? Because we're all concerned that we're never going to a risk-free society? It's not a good society – it's going to be a police state. But we can reduce the risk of adverse events as much as possible, and we will do so with this reform, by setting response time requirements. It's a long and daring step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e279	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e282	Some things require Stortinget to actively search for unity and broad multiplicity. This is one of those things. She's about the security of the inhabitants, the country's preparedness and the police of the future. The police protect us, they represent us, and so important changes in the police must also be democratically anchored. The proposal for police reform, presented by the government and the Left, has been critical of the Labour Party. Now we've made a settlement. And for us, it wouldn't be appropriate to make such a settlement if there were no significant changes to the proposal that was on the table. In the negotiations, the Labour Party has made it clear that we believe that police reform must also have a clearer content – not just about structural changes. And when the proposal for police reform was presented, we had three particular objections. The first was that the proposal didn't answer what a near-police is, or what kind of police force you get locally. The second is that the proposal did not clarify how national crises and disasters should be managed and managed. The third is that the proposal did not respond to the main criticism of the July 22 Commission report, that attitudes, culture and leadership were what separated what was going well from what was going wrong. There's also some of our impressions on the deal. Let me briefly say something about all three: First of all, people and communities now have a real impact on the final result, on the local police. So we've gone from a blank mandate to the Police Directorate, where they could have exercised their authority as they would, to also give them duties, and we give the municipalities co-ownership to the final result that people will get. In practice, this means that municipalities should know in advance what kind of police they will get as a result of the changes. They shall be part of the management groups implementing the changes and, if it appears that the municipalities have not been properly involved, they shall be assisted by the Ministry of Justice. There are quite strong duties that dormant at the Police Directorate now. The commitment the municipalities receive from their police officer in advance of what kind of police force they are given should be so clear that if, in retrospect, the lifting is not fulfilled, it is the duty of the police officer to dispose of the resources in such a way as to ensure that the targets are actually met. The trust and legitimacy of the police depends on a clear anchoring of people. Now they get it. Secondly, the government is about to clear up the national crisis management of the country. We have been told that during 2015 the government will have to present a case to the Storting « with proposals for national crisis management, clarifying roles and responsibilities, and clarify how the government will deal with the Gjørv Commission's recommendation on a scalable national operating centre.» [[...]] Clarifying the national crisis management has gone from being a requirement of the Labour Party to becoming a clear cross-political requirement. The country needs it, the preparedness needs it, and a more clear national crisis management will also make us more strongly equipped to deal with any future disasters. Thirdly, the Labour Party presented 16 concrete proposals for the work on culture, attitudes and leadership in the police. All these proposals are now cross-political incitement to follow up. It is important that this work has a political anchoring, so that the police will not stand entirely alone with the criticism they have received, or entirely alone with the follow-up that will then take place. There is a field we will continue to follow up, because it requires long-term work. In all these areas – more locally anchoring police force, clearer national crisis management and stronger work on culture, attitudes and leadership in the police – police reform has been significantly better. The police reform consists of more than this. It consists, for example, of: of a reduction in the number of police districts. For the Labour Party, it has not primarily been a discussion of how many police districts you should have, but how we can get strong, independent districts. There are two things I would like to highlight: Finnmark, which is now becoming one police district, and Oslo, which is now merged with Asker and Bærum. I would also say that in some areas the police reform would probably be different if the Right Party, the Left Party or the Labour Party alone had presented it entirely on their own. We have all the areas we would have prioritised more. However, once we have reached this agreement, two things are involved: one is that the reform has been significantly better. The second is that the police need the care given by the reform. I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee and wish all policemen and women all the best in the reform process further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e316	Are proposals likely to be addressed by the representative?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e320	That's what the representative does.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e325	The representative has addressed the proposals to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e330	Today, the police are centralized. Today, the 110 Central Stations are centralized. And the Workers' Party is on the move. In addition, the majority gives a blank mandate to the Directorate of Police and leaves the most important pieces of the structure of the future to the bureaucrats. This applies not least to the lumbar carpentry offices. It is serious enough in itself that important questions relating to future preparedness in this way are being red taped, but the next person out is obviously the fire service. The majority, in their comments, refer to the so-called Fire Study, where the fire stations are to be located, but where the bosses are to be seated in a completely different location, i.e. centralized. In the Namskogan, a workers' party municipality in the North Trøndelag, the fire department is actually the police, and they are not going to have any response time after this reform. The working party has been involved in today’s centralisation of parts of the preparedness. Will the Workers' Party also contribute to centralising the Fire Service in line with the Fire Study?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e337	The premise for the question is wrong. What the Labour Party has contributed to through the work of the police reform is to ensure, with regard to the blank mandate that the government and Left originally gave to the police, that the Police Directorate now has a strong duty to involve the municipalities strongly both in the process and in the final outcome. It's about getting clear information on what kind of final results they're going to get. It should be possible to evaluate it, it should be possible to verify it. Police officers also have a strong duty to ensure that the promises that are given in advance are actually followed up in practice. Municipalities have the right to sit in the steering groups and thus have an influence over both process and final result. There is one aspect of the Labour Party's image in this reform: ensuring that the end result has a much stronger local anchor than would be possible with the government and the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e342	Of course, the premise for the question is not wrong. Seeing the introduction of some additional loops related to dialogue and objections, it is clear that, in fact, the bureaucrats are hereafter to determine the number of Länsmannskontoret to remain in Norway. Should it be removed 75, should it be removed 100, should it be removed 125? It's the Police Directorate that's going to decide. It is also clear that it is the Police Directorate who will decide the design of the new police districts and, for example, the police department. where they shall have their main seat. But my question is not just that, it also applies: What can we expect when it comes to preparedness questions in the future? Today's Business had a very interesting article on Saturday about the total preparedness, and then the connection between the police, the 110-centrals and the fire department. My question to the Workers' Party is, do they intend to continue with the blue-blue parties in the process of centralization also in the case of the Fire Service?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e349	The short answer is that neither in the future will the Labour Party participate in any centralisation process. I respect to the extent that the Central Party's desire to justify that they stand out of conciliation, and that may be some of the explanation that the representative chooses the use of words that the representative makes. The reality is that the premise for the changes that the police are now facing is that democracy and the Grand Duchy are adopting, through the police reform, with the changes that the Labour Party has helped to bring about. The reality of what the representative of the Central Party says is that it then seems to suggest that even by local agreement, if there is a local desire for change, they should be raised to e.g. political leadership in the Ministry of Justice. What we have ensured is that when there is local unity, the political criterion for how one should proceed is clearly established. And if there is local disunity and desire to re-address this, it is possible to raise that complaint to the political level of the Ministry of Justice. That's a reasonable way to go about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e354	Since no other party has asked for a line, the representative Arnstad also receives the last line.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e357	The Labour Party can put in the loops they want for dialogue and consultation, but I think it would be desirable if the Workers' Party did not dare to insist that they are actually involved in a strong centralisation today. They're in the process of cutting down 15 out of 27 police districts, and they're actually in the process of giving a mandate to shut down up up to 144 county offices — maybe a little less, but probably a place between 100 and 144. At least the Workers' Party must have the courage to acknowledge that they are in it. But my question is about what will happen next, whether the preparedness work in Norway, in total, will be centralised. Today it's not just the police we're discussing, we're also doing a strong centralization of the 110 Centrals, and the fear of the Center Party is that the Fire Service is next out. And that's when I ask the Workers' Party whether they intend to join the centralizing conclusions of the Fire Study. Do they intend to be the blue-blown forgery even when it comes to centralization of the fire service?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e364	The president has some doubts as to whether the fire department is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e367	It's ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e372	I don't know how to dress, neither will I. I have to repeat that the Labour Party has not been legitimised and in the future will not legitimise any centralisation of preparedness in the format that the representative here is trying to sketch. That Workers' Party is busy, is our readiness, our ability to prevent, and that our police are to be present where people live, where crime happens. That's also why our impression of this reform is that one should have a much stronger locally anchored police force by getting municipalities to co-ownership of both process and final results through clearly agreed political criteria to which the Stortinget now subscribes, which were not in the reform put forward by the government and the Left, but which are now a reality for people and communities throughout the country. I'm proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e380	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e383	Today, we are dealing with a reform that is probably one of the most important reforms – and issues – that we are going to deal with during this major period. The backcloth of the matter today is in many ways serious. At the same time, this is a reform that has been delayed, not least by those who have their daily activities in the police and the prosecution authority. Some cases have shown that the Norwegian police have faced management and structural challenges. Recently, we have been confirmed by the tragic Monika case in Bergen, where the investigation of the murder of an 8 year-old girl was extremely deficient. 22 July showed that governance and coordination were failing as needed most. The Gjørv Commission’s report therefore highlighted culture and leadership as the main challenge in the Norwegian police. Let me make a point: there is a lot of good work done in the Norwegian police department. As a lawyer, I have had the pleasure of visiting and meeting many police officers and women, and with self-esteem, I have seen the job done. You just get proud. However, changes are needed, and police reform sets out clear tools to remedy the current situation: Better management training and innovation in recruitment are just some of the measures. The people deserve security through a good police force, and to get a good police force, we have to have good leaders. Clear demands for police time lead to a change in the location of police officers' offices. It's just 4 pst today. by the daily staff offices. This is not sustainable, the public needs to be able to contact the police even outside the ordinary office hours. Therefore, accessibility is now required. An accessible police force is absolutely necessary, and it is therefore also gratifying to work to introduce good IT solutions such as: will enable the delivery of notifications over the Internet. The reform implies 90 p.m. the population shall have a maximum of 45 minutes’ drive to the nearest police office. This requirement is not applicable on a national basis, but in each police district. This will lead to the setting up of a number of offices, but it will also lead to the creation of new offices, or mobile units, somewhere else. The creation of new offices will be relevant where distances are large. The goal is for our people all over the country to have the same good police service. That is why we call this reform the close police reform. The Progress Party wants to bind as few policemen as possible to sit in the office and want as many policemen as possible in the streets. It is also important that the police are not only present in office hours; in the evening most of the crime takes place. The Progress Party wants the police to be more present where crime is taking place, and to be much more visible in the city and built than is the case in many places today. Through the budgets we have now committed – the last two budgets – we have put in place 725 new police posts in the last two years. What we do through the budget, combined with what we now do through the police reform, will, of course, give a more visible – and better – police force. Several of the tasks that the police have solved today will now be solved by others. The progress party is pleased that we are now getting cleaned up in the police task portfolio. A number of tasks that are not really police tasks will now be able to be transferred to other agencies and actors. The police reform also makes it clear that 95 p.m. of the calls to the emergency number shall be answered within 20 seconds. Emergency centres shall no longer be staffed at night, when most of the crime is, after all, committed. There should be police officers on the job all day, so the reform will now lead to a significant increase in minimum staffing. If you call the police in an emergency, you should now receive a reply within a reasonable time – point. One of today's police problems has been that in small police districts, there has been no possibility of sufficient competence in the investigation of serious crimes such as murder, morality and violence. The districts have been too small to be able to employ enough personnel in specialty research positions, and there has been too little training. Then it's very happy that we now get bigger and more powerful districts. I look forward to the implementation of the reform. The fact that we have such a wide-ranging deal in the United Kingdom today is an important premise for the success of this reform. Finally, let me congratulate those with whom we cooperate in this matter, and commend the case rapporteur, who has shriveled us through both negotiations and this matter in the committee. Let me wish the country's police officers and women happiness with the implementation of the reform!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e411	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e414	The police reform is proposing to merge the 110-centrals. The agreement states that in 2016 it should only be done where there is local unity. Several places in the country have a significant investment in the 110-centrals, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. in Skien in Telemark. Does the representative see that, in future mergers, it is professional and socio-economically wise to move the 112 centres to the existing 110 centres?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e419	I guess the example from Skien was randomly chosen by the representative of Wagslid, but that's a good example of what challenges we're facing when we're going to do that kind of merger and that kind of reform work. That is why I am very pleased that we have been very clear in the agreement that you should have, among other things. a compensation scheme for those municipalities which have made significant investments so that such a situation is not lost. And the answer to the question is also yes – it may be that you have to do the opposite of what many people might think, but you have to come back to that when you are about to implement the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e426	I thank you for your answer. It is quite right that one has invested significant amounts in the 110 Central of Skien. Nor is it a secret that an original should wish for a non-compulsory Samanslo 110-centrals, but we are pleased that one in the agreement does not say anything about when the mergers were to be carried out – i.e. no end date. But there's some criticism that the reform doesn't work out the 110-centrals well enough, that one doesn't mention, for example. all the additional services provided by the 110 Centrals in both Telemark, Nord-Trundelag and other locations. Does the representative think that it would be important to have a more thorough explanation of these matters before one merges all the centres, and does the representative have a point of view as to who might need to take care of these additional services if they are not included in the load?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e431	When we want to do this reform work, we don't do it to be bad for someone or just to make direction out in the organization. Of course, we are doing this in order to improve the preparedness, and unfortunately, with the backing we have, I think the representative also sees that there is a need to take action here, not least in view of the interaction between emergency situations in Norway. There is no doubt that there has been an important backbone for the whole reform. And it's clear that when you're going to implement this, I expect you to follow today's law regarding having employees on advice, I expect you to have a good dialogue with the municipalities, I expect you to have a good process on how to do this aggregation right after the book. No one deserves to have a situation where you get a lot of trouble or a lot of control around it. We do this for an honest purpose, to strengthen preparedness, to make sure that you and I, as citizens, by calling the emergency centre, are able to get the right help at the right time. I guess it's in everyone's interest, including the Stortingets.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e436	Since no other batches have asked for a line, Lene Wagschlid also receives a line no. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e439	Yes, the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e444	Sorry, it won't be Lene Wagslid, but Geir Inge Lien gets that line.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e447	The service city structure is important. It engages locally, and many feel this as their everyday readiness. One of the criteria for a new structure -- and the only thing actually -- is that 90 pst. a maximum running time of 45 minutes by the inhabitants of a district to the nearest service location. When this is decided, a POD will be provided with wide powers. Can the representative, Leirstein, tell us about the number of service locations that will be created? And how many minne Leirstein should be laid down?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e453	The simple answer to that is no, the representative Leirstein does not know how many posts we are going to have in Norway. That's how I realize my own limitations. I don't have police competence on this, I'm a politician. I think we politicians should draw up some clear demands and expectations for the Norwegian police, and then I know that there are a lot of skilled employees, police officers and women, who are going to make sure that these changes are implemented, but after a broad process with the local environment. And there I am very pleased with the agreement, because there we have even more clearly clarified how these processes should be carried out locally, so that local rapporteurs, like the representative Lien and others, have the opportunity to influence the outcome before the Police Directorate establishes a new structure. So I'm convinced that we're getting good processes, and you see that it's important here to get the most police out of every single penny we use, and to provide better preparedness and accessibility for the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e458	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e461	The police have been watching for a long time. The budget has been subject to a lot of criticism and has even wanted to change for a long time. The focus has sometimes been one-sided negative. So today, when we are dealing with new police reform, I have to say thank you to all the policemen and women who are doing heroic work. Usually we'll hear about the times that go wrong, and not the thousands of episodes that go well. Where things go well, it's often thanks to a police officer who has high confidence in the population, and who's there when people need it. When we are about to adopt new police reform and make the major changes, it has been essential to address what has gone wrong. Without drying to do so, we cannot bring about changes that will improve the Norwegian police force. The police have been the subject of many analyses and reports that have revealed several improvement points. The July 22 report was a thorough review of the state of the Norwegian police force and has been – and will remain – an important guide to ensure that the police are able to carry out their mission. The police themselves have put in place a lot of measures to rectify several situations. That's good. But we politicians must also take our responsibilities. I am therefore very pleased that the government parties and the Left wanted to negotiate with the rest of the Stortinget – and that they were willing to extend, so that we got a broad deal with the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. It is important to ensure the legitimacy and predictability of the reform, not only for the police but also for the citizens of our country. I would particularly like to thank the case rapporteur for a good job. In the work on new police reform, which has been well over a year for our part, the Christian People's Party has always been committed to ensuring a police force that is present where people live – not because we believe security lies in an office and signs on the wall, but because we believe it is vital to have the police present to strengthen the prevention and thus the fight against crime. In the process of creating the police of the future, we have been committed to enabling the police to investigate better and solve more crime – a police force capable of dealing with the great terrorist attacks, but also a police force capable of dealing with the terrorist attacks in the lives of every single person, if one experiences a killing, a rape, or an invasion of his house, and a police force in which both we politicians and police take lessons from the report of the Gjørv Commission went wrong. They said among other things:\t\t ‘Trading 22/7 identifies the need for many types of change: in planning and regulation, in the disposal of competences and resources, in organisational culture, priorities and focus, yes, even in society’s attitudes. Some of these amendments may be adopted by an authority. It is the simplest changes to make, if only the political will is there. Other and more fundamental changes – in attitudes, leadership and culture – need to be developed over time.’ There are these changes, and not least the prerequisites for these changes to happen, which we are going to adopt today. At the same time, we know that reform work is incredibly demanding, and it may take a long time before we see the results. The police are faced with a demanding task, and we must also acknowledge that although we today adopt what we believe is a good tool for the police to succeed, it is not certain that we will get the desired result. But I have faith that the police are doing their best, and we politicians have to do our part in order for them to succeed as best they can. It must also be reflected in the budgets and in the increasing number of police officers and women. The change in structure gets a lot of attention — and there are important changes we are making there — but if we are to succeed in putting the police in a better position, the content we need to measure is: that more people get help when they need it, that fewer young people become criminals, that more things are solved, that terror is controlled, and that preparedness is strengthened. But as the Gjørv Commission pointed out, not everything can be adopted politically. We can facilitate a change in culture, but we cannot decide with a spherical point that culture, attitudes and leadership need to be improved – it needs to be done in an interaction. I am pleased that today we are adopting a police reform that has taken this criticism seriously, that we are adopting specific requirements for management competence at all levels of the police, that mentoring for police leaders is being introduced, that a Nordic degree of police leadership should be established – to mention something. These are important and good measures. If we are to build a good society, it is absolutely vital that we learn from our mistakes – that is also the case with the police. Therefore, it is essential that the evaluation in the course of its evaluation contributes to learning. The Christian People's Party has been given a clear mark on the reform through the negotiations. Among other things, I am glad that we have had a positive impact on the police present in all the municipalities of the country. All municipalities shall now have a police contact which shall be present one or more days a week. Local knowledge and humanities are important prerequisites for prevention, and the police must be present locally, and not centrally. At the same time, crime prevention must also be anchored at management level, and the Christian People's Party is pleased that there is now to be a professional or wise police officer in each police district dedicated to prevention. I would like to make it clear that if we are to ensure that prevention becomes a central element of police strategic thinking, this leader must have full-time work on prevention. Local anchoring in case of changes to the service structure is essential to ensure a good process. The municipalities concerned will make an active contribution to this work, and their voice will weigh heavily if an office is to be closed. Local participation is important when designing the police of the future – in this way we guarantee a police close to the people. Together, we have developed important criteria for the design of this structure. Not least, we should finally get a call for police response time. The police are to be present and operate the important prevention, but citizens must also be sure that the police are fast on the ground if anything happens. This will provide security. In order to ensure a safe and good society, it is not just the services that need to be disseminated. It is important that the specialised environments of competence are not just centralised around the police officer. We therefore agree that the professional communities should be spread in the police districts. It is important because it ensures quality throughout the country, helps to spread jobs and thus also ensures recruitment to the police from all over the country. The crime scene has changed in recent years. There is less crime, but crime has become more serious and organized. Then it is absolutely essential that the police be able to investigate and solve this type of crime. We need to ensure incentives for recruiting skilled police and others with acute skills that are needed to investigate and combat today's crime scene. It could be computer engineers, socionomists, economists, etc. It is very positive that we now have a national action plan in place to strengthen research. It is essential that the police are in the field and detect crime, but we also rely on the police to investigate and solve crime. Then it has to have a larger lift. The Christian People's Party is particularly pleased that there is a cross-political will to raise the competence and also the number of investigators working on violence in close relations, trafficking in human beings and sexual abuse. These are extremely serious issues, and it is crime that is extremely severe and therefore must be given priority. Unfortunately, we have more examples, even lately, of the fact that things in the police's work have gone wrong where things shouldn't have gone wrong. That's why I say again: we have to learn from the mistakes that are made – not to find scapegoats, but to make sure that it doesn't happen again. The police reform we are adopting today is based on the ten basic principles of the Police Committee. I am pleased that there is a consensus that the basic principles should stand firm, so that we get a police force to reflect the ideals of society, have a civil character, be a unitary police force, and that it should be decentralised. We thus ensure that the policeman should be a generalist and that the police should interact with the public and be integrated into the community. We ensure broad recruitment and that police focus their work on prevention. In particular, we ensure that the police are effectively controlled by society. It's crucial in a state of law. The police role committee pointed out that the basic principles contribute to ensuring small units, close cooperation with the public and integration into the community, and not least that prevention should be the primary objective of the police. With this foundation and the changes we are making today, we are securing a police force for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e508	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e511	The Christian People's Party is also involved in the significant centralisation that the Stortinget will adopt today. The representative, Leirstein, from the Promskrittspartiet, did not know how many Länsmann's offices were closed, and he was not very concerned about it either. The majority leave the question of the bureaucrat offices. That in itself is a significant change from all the times the Stortinget has discussed the police. It has always been important for us at large and for the government to have an overview of both content and structure. After the Central Party's assumption, there will be a place between 100 and 144 cannon offices that will be closed. It's a rage on the janitor's offices. The representative, Ropstad, has decided that 75 offices can be closed, I read in the newspapers. Does he think it's a reasonable level? And what consequences does he think it can have across the country? Does the Christian People's Party agree with what the Progress Party says, that it's just as good to replace local police with some more cars here and there?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e522	What we're doing is saying to the police that we have certain demands for what kind of police we want, and then the police have to dimension. But unlike the representative Arnstad, I have confidence in the municipalities and in local democracy, because it is they, in liaison with the police, who will agree on whether an office should be shut down. I trust that if a municipality says that we get better security if we shut down the Länsmannskontoret, but strengthens the neighbouring office, they will be allowed to do so. That's why I've given them that authority. If they are unable to reach that consensus, it has been important for the Christian People's Party that it should be a political decision. That is why the Minister of Justice is going to get that case on the table, and possibly put the office down. That is why there is an incorrect presentation by the representative Arnstad. I think that's a pity, because I share the same commitment to a police presence. That is why I am proud that the municipalities that do not have the police present today and do not have the office will have their police contact that will be present one or two days a week. It's actually going to be a decentralization compared to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e527	This was interesting. Is it true that the Christian People's Party believes that the municipalities – and not the Police Directorate – have been given the authority to determine the place of employment structure? It would have been interesting if it could also be confirmed in the form of proposals today, because that is not what is contained in the mandate given today by the legislative decision. The authority conferred by the Act today is an authority to the King of the Council of State to delegate it to the Police Directorate, and then it has an obligation to consult the municipalities. But the final decision is still in the directorate. My question to Ropstad is still: Does he think it's okay, or appropriate, that a man's office should be closed, or does he think that more people should be laid down?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e534	I'm not going to worry about the number, although it's true that I told VG that it could mean maybe 75. The reason I said that was because we stressed that police analysis goes too far. After all, the police analysis was put down by the government representative Arnstad, who made the mandate and the composition. We thought it went too far – that's why we did what we did. With regard to the question of who has the mandate, it is clear. It's the POD that has the authority. There's no doubt about it. But it is clear that there must be a consensus in the municipalities in interaction with the police. When there's agreement, they can lay down. If there is no consensus, there will be a political decision if it is appealed. I also respond to the response time, because it is repeatedly harpselled with. What is a fact is that for the first time we are demanding response time. That doesn't mean 45 minutes. It means 45 minutes' drive to the nearest office. Response time is when the police get there. All shall have a response time. And then it's correctly graduated a little bit from how many people there are and realism in getting into place quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e543	No other party has asked for the third line. It therefore goes to the representative of Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e546	I'll continue to fill out the time when there's such an important debate we're facing. It is true that the red-green government reduced the police analysis. But the police analysis has an alternative with county model. I think it is a little strange that the parties that are currently concerned that things should not be centralised too much have not assessed that model. It would have been a good alternative to what is decided today. Then I have to ask a little about the response time that the representative Ropstad came in at the end. My county is being merged with the South Throne Team. In that police district, there are 45000 not covered by response time at all. Can the representative, Ropstad, say anything about where in the districts he thinks the 45,000 live?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e555	I cannot say anything about where they live, but I can say that they can be sure that the police will come as soon as possible, and that they are covered by the response time. It is completely wrong that the representative says they are not included in it. That's 90 pst. which shall have 45 minutes to drive to the nearest office. But I've been most concerned with the police present – not necessarily the driving distance. So I've been busy responding time. Response time will all be covered, because when the requirement is made that e.g. half shall have a response time within 20 minutes and 80 pst. to have the police in place within 45 minutes, that does not mean that the last 20 pst. is forgotten. That means the police have to dimension their forces, their patrols after that response time. The goal is to improve it all the time. There's going to be a completely wrong presentation that the representative comes with, saying they're not covered by it, because if the police don't dimension, they won't reach 80 pst. of the cases in those areas. It's a completely wrong production. The proposal is a great step forward compared to the government of the representative Arnstad had.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e561	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e564	Today we have a debate of consensus and many great words about the police of the future. But moving around on boxes doesn't help as long as the content is the same, has often been said about reorganization processes in the police. It's a statement I think we're going to have in mind when the Stortinge today is going to define some of the frameworks for the future police. Often, structural reorganisations themselves lead to more bureaucracy, less control and more responsibilities powdering. It is easy to look at how the organisation of Norwegian hospitals is, and how the discussion about it has been over the last few years. If we're going to make changes, we have to be sure that we're changing for the better and not dealing with something that's irreversible experiments. People's security and trust in the police depends on the success of the coup d'état and government. The central party believes that the proposal for which the majority will vote today leads the police in the wrong direction. It will mean centralisation of police force and police power. There won't be any more resemblance to larger police districts, there won't be any more equality for people across the country – there's going to be more inequality. The majority do not say anything about how the near police of the future should be, except that one calls the reform the ‘near-police reform’. But they're going to be good educators, those who're going to make people think there's going to be a better local police force by centralizing police districts and setting up a lot of county officials' offices. All experience suggests that the greater the distances, the worse police coverage. For the Central Party, there are three things that are important when we are to shape the police of the future: Firstly, it is important who should be in control of the future development of the police. Should it be elected by the people, or should there be bureaucracy in a directorate? Secondly, how one can get better culture, sense of role and attitudes in the establishment is very important. Third, where we want the police to be located. Are we going to have an bystander, local police, or are we going to have a clean call-out? The events of the last few years are a serious backstop when we're going to organize the police of the future. July 22nd, Laerdal fires, Flatanger fires and Ardal bus draperies are all examples showing that one must take into account very different conditions when organizing preparedness in this country. We need to dimension the police both to deal with the extraordinary events and to deal with everyday crime. But it is absolutely essential that we facilitate the presence of a police force with local expertise that can quickly get in place when events happen – preferably before the event takes place. Some call for robust trade unions. There is reason to point out that the size of a professional environment in itself is not decisive for whether or not something is robust. It's the competence, the quality and the people who work there, who decide whether it's robust or not. Some of the largest police districts are those who have also shaped the media image for critical handling of criminal cases. We do not change such a culture by creating new mastodons of police districts. There have been several reforms in the police in recent decades. The motivation has always been the same: more out in the streets, fewer behind the desk and better police services throughout the country, it has been said. Looking at the evaluations of the reform in 2000, carried out in 2004–2005, we can see that the sharp opposite was the result: several were behind the desk, and fewer were coming out into the streets. Many of the same arguments are now repeated. Some don't seem to have learned from history. The last thing we need in the police is a new level of leadership, more middle managers and more bureaucracy. In terms of structure, the Centre Party has clear positions: the police districts should correspond to the county boundaries. It creates a common border with other emergency units. Sufficient proximity between the level of management and the executive stages in the districts is ensured. The service location structure will remain the most important. The centre party is disappointed that the criteria are too few, and the ones you have set up are deficiently investigated. We see that a directorate is assigned to determine where the police are to be located, while at the same time the local authorities' ability to influence is weakened. It implies that the majority of the Grand Duchy today does not know what they get when voting in favour of their proposals. Yeah, that really means it's going to be the Police Directorate that decides at the seventh and at the last which police we're going to get in the future. It's scary considering that we're actually dealing with the preparedness of all of us. Hanne Skartvet writes in Saturday's VG: ‘At its best, Norwegian police are talking about what is not happening. Whether or not crimes that are averted. About young people who stop before they go out of their way.’ A gentleman’s knowledge of his local environment means that the police can do good preventive work. If someone is about to get out on the slope, a quick effort can be made on those groups. If an emergency occurs, it is absolutely vital to know where the place is, or who lives there. Policemen's structures have been a fundamental and central element in preventing crime and in people's confidence in the police. This cannot be replaced by a police contact in the municipality at office hours once a week. 90 pst. the population shall have a maximum of 45 minutes driving time to the nearest place of employment. How many county offices can this involve being closed down by the Police Directorate and police officers who are engaged in keeping their budgets, seagoingly? And what about the last 10 percent? How far do they get? What is involved in response time requirements that depend on population base? What does that mean for 20 pst? the population is not included in any requirement for the police to be with them if an emergency occurs? This shows that the majority of the population probably view the world from Oslo, Bergen and other larger cities to far greater extent than they see the needs of the districts. So the representative, Mr. Werp, said in his post that it was not risk-free for anyone. No, it won't, but who gets the most risk with the suggestions that are on the table even when it comes to response time? The Centre Party considers that the site structure needs to be further explored and that the Storting should determine it by means of a separate case. This is absolutely necessary if there is a real concern about close-up police and the consequences of reorganisation. The size has set a target of two police officers per thousand inhabitants by 2020. That is a good objective, and it is an objective that must benefit the whole country. Today, the size of the population is also addressing the future structure of the 110 centres, which, on the government’s proposal, will follow the police division. But what did the fires in Laerdal and Flatanger not have greater consequences than they did? Yes, it was, among other things. due to good local knowledge in the 110 Central Stations. In addition, these centres are currently providing ancillary services to many municipalities, and everyone knows that the most important preparedness work is also being done in the municipalities. Therefore, the Centre Party considers that there is no basis for making changes to the structure of the 110 Central Stations. Taking one away a wall, it's going to have consequences for the whole house. Structures may be adopted. Action plans and budget may also be adopted. But good culture and attitudes cannot be adopted. Culture and attitudes also depend entirely on trust and knowledge and mutual cooperation. Former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said something important in Stortinget on 28 August 2012 about preparedness and so far also the police. He said, ‘The least demanding is to grant more money, to adopt plans. Decide on reorganisations. The most important job is bigger. It's about leadership. strengthening of attitudes; Change in crops related to preparedness. Understanding dangers in a safe society.’» I feel like we're kind of there today. The majority are trying to demonstrate their power of action by addressing the simplest, namely structure, partly on a failing basis. They waive the possibility of making difficult decisions and push it down to the bureaucrats. It is a way of addressing major political challenges and the decision on future preparedness that the Central Party cannot be involved in. With that, I take up the proposal of the Centre Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e623	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e628	In the police reform agreement, it is clearly established that all the municipalities that it adopts should have recourse to the Minister of Justice. For the Labour Party, it has also been important to give the municipalities real local involvement and ownership to the final result, that the local decisions are binding and implemented, and that the Council of State's ability to review the local unity is reduced. Why is it important for the Central Party that the Minister of Justice should be able to review the local unity?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e635	Firstly, I can say that there have been some improvements through this agreement, and I will acknowledge that one of the improvements made by the Workers' Party is that the municipalities should have a greater participation in the discussion of how the service structure of the future should be. I think that's positive. That doesn't mean, like today, that you have to go to the King of the Council for questions about setting up a County Council, but that means that the municipalities have an opportunity to participate in the decision. But that's just a small part of the big reform, that's just a small part of the big picture. The big picture is that both a person changes significantly in the police districts and significantly in the service structure, and that one also contributes to increasing the influence of the Police Directorate as such, related to what one has usually discussed and determined in government and magnificence.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e642	It is well known that the Senterpartiet has doubts about yesterday's solutions for Police-Norway. What surprises me a little in today’s debate – and through the work of the Committee – is to see how they suggest that much of the reform to be adopted is not really professionally justified. It is a claim that falls entirely on its own unfairness – both with the July 22 Committee, with the Gjørv Commission, with the police analysis, with the thorough preparation of the directorate and department, and with its own experience of travel around the world and in the nation. Then it's very tempting to ask: what is the Center Party's professional anchoring for, for example. to doubt a state structure that is out of the question, to doubt that the service structure cannot be changed as we propose, and not to hesitate to reform the 110 centres? I could like to get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e647	The centre party has chosen an alternative, we have chosen the option called the ‘fill model’. We are aware that it was not the preferred option from those who gave the setting, but it is an alternative in the professional base. And that's our option here today. Otherwise, I have to say that there is no basis for saying that the Gjørv Commission has recommended a different structure in Police Norway. It is not stated in the Gjørv Commission's report that one should reduce the number of police districts from 27 to 12. It doesn't say that you're supposed to rage the county and make a car-based police force. The business of the Gjørv Commission was primarily the people who did not find each other in the preparedness work – and it was culture, management and attitudes. We see some other examples in Lærdal and Flatanger, where the emergency kits and emergency kits actually found each other. The reason they found each other was because they were local -- that they had local knowledge, knew about each other, and had the necessary contact in the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e654	It is very rare to hear from a representative at the Stockholm pulpit such a violent mistrust of one of our most important state agencies – the fact that one has such little faith in the Norwegian police that it is believed that when this reform is going to take place, about everything that is of offices is to be laid down, people are not to be helped if they call the emergency services, and obviously you should not care about providing the service that the Norwegian police are actually known to provide. It is a gross mistrust from the parliamentary leader of the Central Party to those who are to carry out a very important reform, with the backing of this reform. Where in all days does this mistrust come from to the Norwegian police? Where does this belief in the fact that the Police Directorate and Norwegian police officers are now going to do their utmost to make life miserable for the country's citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e659	The Central Party has great confidence in the Norwegian police. We believe that Norwegian police, like other emergency services in Norway, do a great job every day. The police in the local communities prevent crime and ensure that young people do not slip out – the police at their best, as Hanne Skarstein writes in the VG – are fantastic. The debate on the future of the police has always been a clear political responsibility. It is always government and magnification that have taken those decisions when they are big and important – and it deserves the decisions. But what the Progress Party is doing here today is simply shifting political responsibility from one to another to state bureaucrats, and I think that is most surprising.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e666	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e669	I want to start by thanking the Right and the Advance Party for the cooperation we have had around this reform for well over a year. I would particularly like to thank the Council of States, which led us through the negotiations until what I think was a good result. But I think the result has been even better since we signed an agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party, and I want to thank them too. In particular, I would like to point to the Workers' Party, because if I am not completely wrong, it is precisely this reform that has made the Workers' Party in this period to enter into a broad settlement in a matter that originally came from the government. I think that shows something about how important this matter is, and how important it is that we get a broad deal about such a major reform. I am pleased that there are so many parties that have taken responsibility for it, so that the police can now carry out a reform which is a broad consensus behind, with the predictability of such a broad consensus. As many have been involved, it is a quite serious back ground for this reform. Of course, it's July 22nd, when what wasn't supposed to happen happened, and we couldn't handle it in a way that we should, or that we could have wanted and expected. It's the Gjørv Commission that points to the weaknesses that were then, and then we have the police analysis, which gives us some recommendations on the way further in the work with the police. So this is no doubt that is a necessary reform to improve the police of the future. That's, of course, what the representative Ropstad was about, often the negative things we're hearing about, and often the negative things we're talking about. I also think it is important to stress that we have a very good police force in Norway today, and that there are many policemen out there doing a good job every day, which means a lot to the population, and that has a lot to say for the great trust the police have in the population. I can even tell sunshine stories from my meetings with different policemen. So I think it should also be said that when we are now discussing a reform with a serious backstop, there is a lot of good work going on out there. Preparedness is probably one of the most central issues in this reform, and it is precisely because of the back cover that has to do with July 22 in particular. This has been an important topic throughout the work. Because it's important that we improve. When we see how it failed on July 22nd, when we really should have set up as a society, there is a need to take some powerful action. But we can't just focus on the extreme events of July 22, we also have to focus on the preparedness to be serious, but despite all the more common events like that. natural disasters and other, more ordinary, things. For preparedness must be about a wide range of events, not just the most extreme cases. I believe that the reform, as it now stands, has a broader perspective than just the terrorist perspective, and I believe that it is a strength for the reform as it is now. Not least, I think it is good that we have focused on involving other resources as well, not least voluntary teams and organisations, which are a very important part of our preparedness work. Socket responsibility is an important part of the preparedness that we have along the coast. I am pleased that we are now stating that the base responsibility should continue to be divided into four districts and that today's location should be maintained. We already have good environments of competence, and I am pleased that, for example. Kristiansund will continue the important work in which they already have good competence. Prevention may be one of the most important things the police do. At the same time, there is some of the most difficult things to measure, and so it sometimes disappears in the debate. But I think we have raised this field up to where it belongs, with the focus that it should and must have. There are several ways out, but local knowledge and knowledge are essential for good prevention. Therefore, I am also very pleased that we point to the importance of local knowledge. The fact that, for example, All municipalities should have a regular police contact that follows them up especially, I think is a very good grip for prevention. Already today, there is a lot of good cooperation. SLT is an example of something that works very well and is based on very good local knowledge. Prevention is now being lifted even higher, and more emphasis will be placed on the work ahead. Although it is not the most important thing in the reform, it is often structure that ends up being what is discussed the most. I believe that the structure model that lay after the government and left agreed was a good model and a good starting point for the agreement that we have now concluded with the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. There are some changes. Among other things, Finnmark is now assembled as one police district. Finnmark is in a very special situation because it is the police district that has the external border with Schengen, and that border issue is also important in the future. Finnmark also has a special situation with regard to the Sami problem, and there I think the police also have a task to do in the future. Among other things, the police do not have data tools that can handle Sami characters, such as: require them to enter notional names in the weapons register. I believe that when we get Finnmark together, we can also focus on that problem. That Asker and Bærum now have gone over to Oslo, is a solution that I perceive is wanted both in Oslo and in Asker and Bærum, so I think that's something everyone can live with. With regard to the Haugaland, which has perhaps been the most controversial and controversial locally, I think we have got a good solution, based on police counseling, and where preparedness is what is at the heart. Of course, when a billion-dollar infrastructure is built, it has to follow how we organize our society. So it should just be missing that there's going to be a change when Rogfast is in place. Then we have completely different communication options between Rogaland and Hordaland, not least for Haugalandand. Lensmen's offices are also some of the things that have been discussed a lot. For us, it has always been important that it should be a political responsibility at last to set up a Länsmannskontoret. But I think it's important that we give the police the opportunity to put down cannon offices, because one of the feedback we got on the previous police reform was that when we put down or merge districts, but get nothing done about the place structure, we prevent the police from making the changes that are needed to enable them to deliver the offer to the citizens that we expect them to deliver. Since we agreed with the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, we have been given a very thorough description of the process that will take place in advance of a merger through the closure of Länsmann's offices. I think that's useful for the police too, because it gives us clear expectations about how the municipalities and local communities should be involved in that process. It also helps to give legitimacy to the process and to the eventual closures that will and will have to come. In the end, I want to mention two things that aren't so often taken up in this context, because they don't appear to be very big when we discuss a whole reform. It's about smooth cells, and it's about 'psyche car'. I'm very happy that we're going to have a probationary system in at least one police district where overly drunk people aren't going to be put on smooth cell but transferred to health care. For me, it's about values. It's about how we treat people. If the Council of State is wondering if he's going to get some police districts to join such a trial scheme, then there's not something I'm wondering about, because I've already registered that the chief of police in today's Rogaland police district has been out in the media and said that this is something he wants to welcome, and at least Rogaland police district wants to be part of. I think that's very positive. ‘Psychiatric car’ is about the same thing – how we look at people who are mentally ill – it's about the health care system and not about the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e700	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e703	The report of the July 22 Commission said very clearly that what was different from what was going on was culture and leadership. In the agreement presented by the Right, the Progress Party and the Left there were few responses to this challenge. After the conciliation, we have received more input from the Labour Party – 16 concrete actions on culture, leadership and stagnation. What is my question is: What was the reason why the original proposal did not respond better to one of the main challenges of the July 22 Commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e715	I do not entirely agree with Mr Wagslid on the premises. First of all, I believe that the management problem was addressed. So I believe that the police are already doing a lot of good in terms of management. I mean the criticism that has come is something that the police take seriously, and that they work with. Having said that, I also think that the reform, as it now exists – after the agreement with the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party – is even better than it was, even in terms of leadership. It is primarily about raising this up to a political level, and also writing what is already happening, but then we have clearly expressed expectations from the Storting. I think that's a strength. I would also like to stress that we must have confidence that the police will take seriously the criticism they have received, and that they will take the necessary steps to strengthen the management of their own organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e724	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e727	Let me start by saying that it is a great pleasure to see such a big encounter at the ‘tribun’ – I kept saying. One must say that the meeting up there is far better than down here. It sends a signal to us about a plant that is busy with the decisions that the Storting will take today, and that will right the debate we have on this. "No one's born criminals, that's what you're going to be. Someone has to be there and see the signs in advance. The police see the signs and do something with them in collaboration with kindergarten, school, child protection and other local agencies. It is prevention.» I'm not the one who said this, it's one of those I noticed is here now, namely Sigve Bolstad, leader of the Police Union. I'm starting there, because the best counterworked crime is the one that doesn't happen. As many people know, there is an institution in society that has as slogans "We were there when it didn't happen" – it's not SV's new slogans, just to clarify it, it's its Natteramnana. There's a lot of police work in that slogan. Police are an essential part of our preparedness when a serious crisis or incident occurs. It's a theme that's recently received the necessary and recurring attention. The police shall investigate serious crime and ensure that the perpetrators can be sued and obtain evidence. Police are to investigate what is sometimes called everyday crime, it is a recurring issue. But I think the prevention role of the police often gets too little attention – what is perhaps the most fundamental police work in our society. On the important point, I would like to say that the police reform, the proposal put forward by the government and the Left, improves this. She had a lot of positive intentions, but wasn't good enough. She didn't clearly define what the police were, what one should understand about it, and what one could expect in the future. She was in our view of centralizing and gave authority in important decisions to the office – away from democracy. She did not have sufficient resources to strengthen her research as a priority. And most importantly, she didn't have the total attention to culture and leadership that we expected would dominate. When something doesn't work in our administration, we may have added a habit of doing structural operations, at least it's often met that way. A change in limits, merges units, sets a new instruction, and adopts an action plan. It sounds good, it's easy to explain, and often it can be good. But the real changes happen in our heads and in our behavior. It is when something is in your head and hands – in the conversations every day, in the meeting that one has and in all the small and big choices one takes – that one really has got a change. That's what really is prioritizing something -- that one can call a culture. To give an example, issues of sexual assault, violence against children and violence in close relationships are a huge social problem that we have been able to deal with well enough so far. Historically, there have probably been large numbers of darkness, and we know that there are still a lot of things that are not reported, not cleared, and that one does not handle well enough. It is very good to have action plans against it; there are many necessary measures to put in place. But it's when there's a part of culture at all levels that it's important, that's when changes are really about to happen. On the basis of this, SV, together with others, called for, and subsequently initiated, discussions with the other party with a view to a broad consensus on changes in the proposed police reform. The discussions have led to several important changes: a clearer definition of local police, a number of important individual actions for culture and leadership, and a better appeal process for changes in service locations — to give some examples. However, the SV chose to withdraw during the final phase of these negotiations when it was clear that only adjustments to the proposed reform were made to the government. There were several important things we didn't get through for. Let me mention some of them. First of all, we proposed a big message or a more thorough work on culture and leadership that could go on over the years. As a government council, I have seen for myself how a staging message or another type of pervasive work can lead to an extensive process that gives a theme attention. This will be anchored in the layers below; they will do a big pre-work. The Department will launch a project, a work that would like to involve several departments. There will be listeners, recording rounds, learning from other countries and learning from the best examples. It will lead to a larger public debate, and it will eventually lead to a decision and a case in the Storting – which will also be anchored here. I have to say that I am still a little surprised that the government was not interested in meeting this. I think it's a requirement it should be possible to be a few of them. But it wasn't like that. The second thing I want to mention is that we still think it's the Department – that is, the Council of State, the Government – that's going to decide about service places. In principle, it is important in a democracy that it is the supreme political responsible who stands for decisions that are perceived as important. Then you will also take a broader view than just the ones you want to take. All decisions in important areas will be of concern, and the police are related to other matters. This is also the experience from other major government agencies, such as health and higher education, that in the end it becomes a political responsibility, so one might as well put the decision-making authorities there. We also thought that the final arrangement was too centralizing, there was too little willingness to make changes in the meeting with the Stortinget, for example. in the case of the number of police districts. So, together with other relationships, which were not a direct part of the conversation, and which we think are too weak in the reform, we chose to stand outside. In a reform with significant shortcomings, minor adjustments were not good enough even if the changes were positive. However, I will end by wanting all those who are going to work on putting an important reform into practice, to close down. This applies to the sitting government. Now we have to add that after listening to the radio and reading the online newspaper in the morning, it is a little bit unclear how long the government will sit, but they will have to be closed for as long as they are. The same is true for future governments, but most of all for the police - from senior leaders through those who work at the leadership and middle levels to the individual service provider and the service woman. And close to all those who are going to cooperate with the police, whether it's for school, kindergarten, child protection, health care, drug care or other fields. In many ways the work is now starting. That's what we're going to do, and it's only in many years that we'll know if it's a successful reform. Securing resources for implementation is now under way. It will not be possible to fulfil the objectives of the reform without a resource gap in the police in the years to come – I would stress – and it will be necessary to work with culture and to have total attention to it in the further work. I accept the suggestions from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e766	The representative Burd Vegar Solhjell has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e771	The representative Solhjell was concerned with culture. Culture can be defined as we work with us. In fact, no police district in Norway is organised equally. This has led to the achievement of results being very different, different process times, a very large difference in the percentage of disclosure. How will SV organise Norwegian police, so that the results are more equal and the population receives a more similar police service? SV is traditionally a party engaged in equality and equal services for the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e776	I do not know if the representative has got it along, but roughly we have a positive attitude to the changes that have been made at the district level. But we called for something greater will to go into other proposals and changes in the Storting. We think it's right that there should be a lot fewer districts than it is today, and we think it's right, among other things. because there must be common requirements for them. But there are exceptions to all rules. There are areas where there may be other areas of concern, but we thought that that part of the reform was a step forward. It hasn't been the most important point for us, nor was it the most important point in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e781	The representative was concerned with prevention, but prevention requires one thing. It's conditional on presence. If you look at the police analysis, it says that out of 354 police arrests, to put it that way, it's only 85 who have a theoretical opportunity to put in a 24-hour patrol. It goes without saying that then the presence becomes too small. Prevention is not just that Uncle Police comes and distributes a reflex in the classroom. It's a little bit further. It's to be present. How will SV ensure that the police are actually more present in the village and the city?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e786	I agree with that description. It's very important to be present. Therefore, it is important to be willing to change the service location settings continuously. I believe service locations will disappear in the future. I think there will be new ones, among other things. Because we get a significant population growth. Then I also thought it important that we actually have the environment that has the time and resources to be present, and that uses the capacity and the attention to it as much as possible. But I also believe that local anchoring, knowing the environment, knowing human beings, knowing the community, history and background, in much of the country, will still be important for the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e792	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e795	In a day like this, it must be allowed to be a little extra eager. During this week the word ‘historic’ has been used in this room several times and important decisions have been taken. I would like to say that that word really fits quite well with the decision that will be taken on this matter later today. As a back-up to it, the representative Arnstad insisted that it was wrong to leave responsibility for change and responsibility for structure at the office, that politicians had to deal with such issues. That's why I want to say that I'm proud that today we have the police director present with all the country's police officers, all the heads of the special agencies, the Riksadvokat and five state lawyers. We have trade unions, and we have others who are engaged in the Norwegian police. I think it shows that they take this hall in the very highest seriousness. I think it shows that we have a police officer who is engaged not only in the job they are going to do, but in the signals that come from everyone in this room today. I am proud of the Norwegian police and the Norwegian police supply, and I think we should use the opportunity today to say that there is reason to be. I think it is important to say that the near-police reform is not the result of Norwegian police in general doing a bad job, because that is not the case. In general, Norwegian police do a very good job, but there is room for improvement. We need to adapt to a new era, and that is what the near-police reform is all about. Then I want to thank the Left, who was with the government parties to lay the foundation for the near-police reform that was presented to the Stortinget. It was a constructive, good dialogue all the way, and I think the result was good. I also want to thank the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party for the job that was done after the near-police reform was presented. It is not obvious that more parties in such a position and in such a situation contribute to further improving the near-police reform. But I think it also shows us that we can be proud of the way Norwegian democracy works, that we are riddled with each other, that we are solution-oriented and constructive in matters that are so important as the near-police reform actually is. I have to admit that in some areas, the near-police reform after the treatment in the Storting is actually better. There are several things in the reform that are described more thoroughly, not least the relationship between management, culture and attitudes, which it is important for the Storting to say and think about. In these areas, I really believe that it has been a strength. Then we should not forget that the near-police reform must take care of at least two pillars. One is the need for us to have a visible, accessible and more effective police force to prevent local involvement with other actors. I agree with the representative, Mr Solhjell, that very much the prevention work is getting too little focus. Unlike the representative, Mr Solhjell, I believe that the solution to this is the near-police reform. Building robust prevention environments, ensuring resources to enable municipalities to maintain regular police contact that can also commit the police. Ensuring dialogue with other local actors is important in order to ensure prevention. I don't think we're able to prevent optimally today because it's so complex. It's not just about presence. It's also about that, but it's also about competence. Prevention is also about competence — and presence in youth settings, schools, specialists who can work towards radicalisation. All of this is very important. Secondly, the reform of the police should ensure stronger professional environments in general. This applies to both incident management and investigation. I think it is important to focus on the fact that there is quite a large amount of action in the area of police reform on the research side, a strong focus on how to ensure better research, and so that the research subject is also raised. There has been a lot of criticism in this area. There have been a number of reports, single incidents, which have resulted in very strong criticism of some of the police investigations. It is important that we ensure good enough professional environments, that we ensure the competence of those who are going to work on research, that we ensure quality and capacity. That's why I'm very happy that it's now going to be a prosecution analysis. The mandate of the police analysis did not include that. Now that we're getting this prosecution analysis as a result of this work, I'm very pleased with it. It is also important to stress the reinforcement that the prosecution side has received, with 50 police lawyers and 12 new state attorneys, the last year, which will have a major impact on what kind of expectations we can have about the quality of the investigation work to take place in the future. I believe that this reform will provide a better offer and a more equal offer to the people and citizens across the country – for example. the fact that we have now introduced response time requirements for the first time. It was unmistakable a few years ago, but now there is a demand for response time, and it says in the reform of the police that we have expectations that the response time requirements will be met even better in the future. The figures we have so far show that the police districts follow up and are able to deliver at the required response times. I think that's good, and I think we should have it with us. About 40 pst. of today's LEN's office has five or fewer employees. I believe very strongly that there is neither prevention nor good investigation nor preparedness in buildings or police signs. It's the people who make up that resource and that capacity. When we know that an 18-year-old needs to secure one day-old patrol, it says a little about the lack of capacity that very many of our janitor offices have today. I think it is important to realize that the job that is now being done is actually important and provides improvement opportunities locally. So action works. The population survey was presented today. It's a survey of how people perceive things, and according to the survey, the population believes that the authorities' ability to deal with crises and serious incidents is now improved by 11 points. The ability of the authorities to prevent crises and serious incidents has improved by 9 points and the trust of the police has improved by 7 points since 2013. I think it's incredibly good results, and I think we should have it with us in the further discussion. The Norwegian police enjoy high confidence in the population, and it is a demanding task to maintain it in the future, but I am absolutely convinced that we can do it. We need professional environments that are good enough and competent enough to investigate, for example. violence in close relations and violence and sexual abuse against children. I have very great faith in the abilities and capabilities of the local loner and the local loner officer, but I think that having professional people working on that type of serious crime will lead to a reduction in the reporting threshold, will lead to more cases being investigated, will lead to more cases ending in judgment. It will again be prevention. Therefore, I believe that even though we have this old-fashioned ‘lensman’ in our hearts all in one or more ways, we must also see that Norwegian police are challenged by other things today than they have been before. The fact that crime trends are the same as they are, where the usual rate of crime is falling, while organised, cross-border crime is increasing, makes new demands on the police. It imposes new demands and expectations on the prosecution authority, and it imposes new requirements on the framework within which we are to organise our police. That is what this reform is all about, and that is why it is so great that there is strength behind the conclusion that comes from the Stortinget today, that it is the broad collection of this near-police reform. I also allow myself to point out that even one of those who did not join the final race, SV, also says that there are many positive things here. I also think it's rusty, to show that here there's actually a positive development in some areas, even if you don't agree on everything. That's what it's going to be. Finally, I would like to say that there is still a lot of work to be done. It's actually now the work really starts. Both Solhjell and Ropstad were aware that it takes time for us to see results, but I think it is important to take into account that in the course of this process we need to ensure broad involvement, both by trade unions, by municipalities and by voluntary organisations. Then I think we should give a tribute to all policemen and women who every day, including today, make Norway a little safer, who will help implement this reform in order to get an even safer and better society in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e831	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e834	With today's issue of police reform, decisions will be taken by the Stortinget which was not in the government's original proposals, including those relating to police reform. new duties of the Police Directorate, taking into account the concrete involvement of municipalities and ownership of process and final results. Then, just a few weeks ago, there was strong criticism – by some parties even distrust – of the Minister of Justice's handling of cases involving long-term asylum children. Among other things, it took place: on the missing follow-up of the steering signal given to the Police Directorate. My question is: What has the Minister of Justice learned from the cases of long-term asylum children and the follow-up to the steering signal that will ensure that the new decisions of the agreement on police reform will be handled in a better way?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e843	Fortunately, I'm so inclined to learn from things that don't go completely according to plan, but I think the commitment I showed from the pulpit regarding the presence of the police here today is an important element to show that one has an organization that really wants to deliver. They want to deliver on what is adopted in this Chamber, and of course I will follow it up in my ongoing dialogue with the police director, at my meeting point with the police officers, and this is a reform that we are totally dependent on to succeed. It requires those who are to put it into practice, and demands are also made for a very clear political leadership. And I can tell the representative that I must be very clear in that leadership, and I must have clear expectations of how this reform will land.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e848	I'm glad to hear that the Council of State has been learning about other demanding issues, and that he wants to be clear about leadership in the follow-up to the agreement on police reform. My question now was whether he has developed a plan for how to follow up the decisions that are now being taken and which require continuous follow-up in the time to come, since it is a comprehensive reform that will extend for a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e855	I have to admit that we have started a bit of a thief, even though we should not initially start a thief too much until the Stortinget has made its decisions. As the representative himself was aware, there are now several decisions and slightly different decisions in some areas than the government has proposed. But this is a result of a broad settlement. This also means that, in addition to having a plan for implementation, we will have to keep in touch with the partners we have, in order to have a loop message from time to time and tell how this work is going. So plans have been made both by me and, in particular, by the Directorate of Police, which will help ensure that we have a successful implementation of the reform. We are totally dependent on it to be successful, and we have great confidence that we will be able to achieve it in cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e860	I would like to congratulate the Council of State on having a large majority for a centralising police reform today, where the criteria for division into police districts are quite inexhaustible. In some cases, the police district is equal to the county; in others, two or more states are merged. Do you have a focused local knowledge, a focused capacity for prevention? It's not so good to see when, for example. The More and Romsdal counties will remain one police district, while Sogn and Fjordane police districts will be shut down. There's a very good job doing and cutting very high on most of the criteria in contrast to the police district under which it's to be deployed, Hordaland, which has at least been produced through the media lately in a somewhat more negative way. My question is: what concrete criterion does the government have in establishing the boundaries of the police districts that have produced so different results for Sogn and Fjordane and More and Romsdal? Is local knowledge and ability to prevent among the criteria that one has emphasised?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e867	There are a number of criteria that have been included, but there have also been local conditions that have been crucial for how this reform has been achieved by the government and by the Left and in the negotiations in this Chamber. But I think it's a little bit -- I'm not going to say unfair, because it's not suitable from the Parliament's pulpit -- strange that the representative and the Central Party have been very clear that this is a huge centralization reform when it's really the goal of getting more police force out and spending less money, less resources, on administration and more on prevention, investigation, correction and preparedness. At the same time, if you're going to use this rhetoric, you have an alternative that's a solid centralization reform, and maybe more than what's now going to be the result of the Storting because you're going to spend a lot more resources managing these 18 police districts of the Central Party than you do with 12, so I'm a little unsure whether there's any basis for saying that 18 is not centralization, while 12 should be centralization, or 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e872	I want to follow up a little bit on the question that Hadia Tajik had, which was about implementing the decisions that we are making here today. Now that we are significantly reducing the number of police districts, it also presents us with some challenges in order to implement the Storting wish that this would not lead to large-scale centralisation. One of the things that Stortinget has pointed out is that professional environments and competences should spread around the different districts, that not everything should be centralised where the police officer had to be placed. That, I think, is a very important part of this reform. There is a lot of good work going on in the police districts already, and we have to make sure that the competence is out there, and not just in one place in the district. My question to the Council of State is: How does the Council of State see that we are going to be able to implement the spread of professional environments in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e881	I think that is a very good question – a lot of good questions are being asked from the pulpit today. This was affected by the agreement between the Left and the Government parties before the proposition was made. The point here is not to build big giant buildings, where all the police force in addition to the standby out there is to be gathered. The purpose here is the opposite. This means that many police stations will naturally be able to place the centralised competences at local level. It would be totally inappropriate, both from a structural point of view and on the basis of the idea of having police around the country, to gather, for example. all eco-teams inside the police chief's office or office block. There may as well be a completely different place, just like environments with experts in organized crime and sexual abuse can be located around the police district. I assume that it does, because it is important that the police be around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e889	I was saying thank you for a good answer instead, for this was good and reassuring to hear. My question is about the Police Directorate. In these notes, the majority is clear about what the Police Directorate should be. Through the reform, we have given new powers to the Police Directorate, who will be responsible for much implementation. It will require upgrading by the Police Directorate. As the Council of State was in, a lot is already going on. At the same time, we are clear that the districts should be as independent as possible. They shall have the competence to deal with the crime itself and to operate it. My question is about how the Council of State wants to implement the reform, ensuring that as many resources as possible come out in the districts, to more police officers and women, and that one does not end up with resources remaining in the Police Directorate – that they have enough resources to build up skills and support, but that they get the most out in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e898	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Ropstad, on his foundation here. But we should remember that one of the critical comments from the Gjørv Commission was just that the police directorate was not equipped to have the role they should have as a driver in relation to the local police districts. Now the Police Directorate is substantially rusted up. It's a completely new management structure, it's a completely different organization, and they have a completely different resource base now than they had before. That means that I believe the Police Directorate in general is now equipped to deal with this reform and ensure that it is satisfactorily implemented. Of course, I want to follow up politically, as we have now, for example. with appropriations for 350 new police officers each year, corresponding to the number leaving the Police College. We are very clear on both demands, expectations and follow-up. In several areas, this will be the case. But I think we must have fundamental confidence that we have a police officer, a police director and a police director who is prepared to implement what is adopted in this Chamber. They are loyal to those decisions. There is no will on their part to fight against either state council or bigotry, rather the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e909	I can't let you comment on the short answer Anundsen gave to the representative Tajik on the question of post-work. He said they had stolen a little. My experience is that stealing is one of the things that a person does or doesn't do. But if you've been forbidden and haven't seen the work done, I'll tip you off that you'll get the hall's forgiveness for it. So I'm curious about the question of a big message or other major work on culture and leadership, which SV has proposed today, and which has been the subject of the discussion here. I wonder why the Minister of Justice doesn't want to give a big message about this, and in what other way he'll do a systematic work that characterizes the whole department, the ministry and the public debate in the years that come when it comes to that topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e916	Let me first thank you for your forgiveness for the thief's start. We've had a certain impression that we're getting a majority for the major parts of the proposition we've made. That means we've had time to prepare. In this way, we are well-informed about the work to be started. It's also the Police Directorate very well rusted out. When it comes to culture and leadership, it's an incredibly important discussion, but it's also a discussion that we have to be careful not to be simplified, in the way that one later as if nothing has happened. After the Gjørv Commission presented its statement, a great deal of work has been done on management, culture and attitudes in the Ministry of Justice and Defence and in the Directorate of Police. A lot of things have happened through the change program, but there's still a lot left. There are many ways to engage in debates on this. It's about research. It is about having a strong focus in the Police Directorate, in communication with the police officers and with the police officers in the line down. It is about good cooperation between the various police and trade unions and ensuring a broad approach to management, culture and attitudes. I agree with the representative's assessments of what is needed in order to say that we have succeeded. Then it's the mindset that needs to be changed. I am not quite sure if groceries will change this mindset.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e929	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e932	If not all boys, at least a lot of people dream of becoming a policeman. The policeman is the hero of society, it's the police people who take care of us and ‘put the thieves in prison’ – as my own son would have formulated it. Anyone who has been on a football tournament in the Nordlandshallen or another track in the country when the police routinely pounce on it has also seen the children flock around the officials – with questions or only in mute admiration. And the parents are in the background smiling. It's for me the picture of what the Norwegian police are first and foremost: an element, a public service that is a natural part of our lives. We know these women and men who serve. They contribute with security, they are visible and present, and they act to protect us when they have to. I therefore fully agree with the majority of the committee, which emphasises that local anchoring, close contact with the local communities and good cooperation with local authorities are a prerequisite for the legitimacy and authority of the police. The prerequisite for having a close police force — a police force that is close — is precisely a local presence, a great interface with society, good local knowledge and a police that balances different tasks against each other. The local ownership of the police is essential for good cooperation. Prevention requires cooperation and interaction. It assumes that the parties have trust and know each other. The closure of offices in pig-grown areas could threaten the relationship you have today. This may weaken the conditions for this interaction between the police and the community. That is why I am pleased that mechanisms are now being set up to ensure local elected participation in these processes. The influence of municipalities on change processes could contribute to confidence in the solutions you actually choose. However, there is a need to say that the extent and nature of local involvement is unclear. That's why I'm going to be very clear that the prerequisite for involving local people, citizens and municipal influence is that it's real. This means that predictability, process scope transparency and process quality are required. This must be clarified by the government before these processes are initiated. I hope that it has been part of the preparations or the starting of thieves to the Council of State. The Steigen municipality is a small municipality with 2,500 inhabitants. There are long distances, and people live all over the municipality. It's a municipality that will typically get more distance to the nearest office than 45 minutes. If you are in Steigen, it is three and a half hours to drive to Bodø, even if you can be in Bodø in an hour by boat. It can't be that a size fits for everyone in this country. There must be room for more ambitious thinking, where distance to the nearest place of employment is more flexible, so that more people come within reasonable proximity. They have the same concern in Steigen regarding response time. It's squiggly to get there. State council writes in the proposition: ‘The police service should be substantially equivalent wherever you live.’ I don't agree with that, but the police department has to be equivalent wherever you live. So everyone knows that in parts of the country there will be extra resources and opportunities, but the basic police services will have to be equivalent across the country. I therefore distance myself from the value base that means that not everyone in this country should have access to an equivalent police service. It's a threat to me to the value on which we have built this country. That's why I'm glad that a joint committee is concerned about the same thing and refers to Prop. 61 LS for 2014-2015, stressing: ‘The police shall be accessible to citizens throughout the country and provide quality police services. From the point of view of tasks, the seat of police and officers must have a decentralised structure.’ I started my post by telling about the children who flocked around police officers and women visiting the event. Let me also end there. A party colleague of mine did a pretty interesting observation a tournament weekend a few weeks ago. It was something that had changed. The police are still coming to the football tournament. They are pleasant and gentle people, they greet those who are there. But the children no longer flock around the police, they pull away. When you ask your children why, they say they're afraid of the weapons. To me, there is also a very important element in the discussion about what a near-police is and should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e966	The right is very pleased that we have now had a near-police reform that such a broad majority in the Grand Duchy is behind. The close police reform shall improve the ability of the police to meet both current and, not least, future crime challenges. Some critical comments have been made on the reform, but it is important that we take into account the background of the reform that was well highlighted in the input from the representative, Mr Werp. I would also like to refer to the report of the Gjørv Commission, as among others. pointed out that the strong political governance of the police was a weakness. Over the years, we've heard too many stories about violence and abuse against children who haven't been investigated, or not researched well enough. These are, of course, demanding issues that need to be dealt with afterwards. It is then essential that the police have the necessary competence and the investigation environment to be able to investigate and prosecute these matters in a good way. Abuse and abuse are serious crimes that society is going to hit hard. In order to ensure that children and vulnerable groups in society receive good and proper help in difficult situations, police have to work purposefully and with sufficient resources over time. Violence in close relationships and child abuse has traditionally had far too little focus in the police. Low status and lack of priority have led to a lack of detection and clarification of these issues. The number from NOVA shows that 8 pst. by all children in Norway have been subjected to serious violence by at least one parent before the age of 18. All police districts must have family violence coordinators. Unfortunately, we have learned that many of today’s police districts have not had full-time family violence coordinators or that they have also had other tasks that have often caused family violence to become a priority. In the worst case, ongoing child abuse will continue because the police are not investigating these cases, and lack of investigation can also mean that these individuals themselves will be able to commit sexual abuse against children in the future. If the police succeed in improving the quality of the investigation and getting the percentage of information up, they need to have a wider professional environment dedicated to both preventing and investigating these issues. There is a clear demand and expectation through the reform that the quality of police criminal activity is improved and that the number of criminal cases cleared should be increased. Politically, we now give the police greater professional freedom under responsibility and appropriate framework conditions so that they can develop better management, culture and attitudes. The close police reform shall provide the police with the necessary tools to develop an even better service for the citizens. Therefore, the right is particularly pleased that the proposition highlights that: ‘Districts of police shall ensure the proper prevention and investigation of cases of violence in close relations, sexual assault cases, trafficking in human beings’. The country’s children’s home is doing a very important job of providing facilities for child questioning and other particularly vulnerable persons, as well as their follow-up in retrospect. Later today, we are also going to deal with a change in the criminal law that deals with the hearings conducted in children’s homes. The proposals promoted through that proposition are important for the reform of the police, but not least for the vulnerable children. It is expected that the changes will help to speed up the execution of interrogations and better care of children who are subjected to violence or abuse, or are witnesses to them. The proposal for the near-police reform also states that the work of children’s homes is still under police control, and we are very pleased with that in the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e995	Following the presentation by the government and the Left of its proposal for police reform, entitled ‘Near Police’, there have been some criticisms from large parts of the country. Many – I am among them – said that it was not entirely easy to see how the reform proposal should give the title. I'm so glad that we made a real effort to try to be a little bit of a deal about the police reform, and that we did it. But for this to be possible, there was a clear priority from the Labour Party in the discussions with the other parties that the title of the reform had to be given a content. We have different experiences with police reforms and police changes. Many places in the country have co-located and received a better service, and other places have not received a better service after such processes. In my county, Telemark, we have probably experienced both. Therefore, it is so important that one now states that before making changes locally, a written agreement should be reached between local authorities and the police on what to expect after the changes have been implemented. I think this is much better than what we have today. Many have been disappointed with changes because they have not led to a better service. Now you have to make sure of this, and it's very good for the communities. For changes to lead to better, and if not, a political right of appeal shall apply. This means that the police officer will produce a realistic and clear document showing which services the citizens can expect. It shall be submitted to the local authority and the local authority shall be able to give its opinion on it. The changes that will be made will be evaluated, and if the results do not match what was reflected by the citizens and the local government, the police officer will have an obligation to ensure that it is implemented. This point is important for local authorities to influence the police locally, and I want to refer to the Police Union, who told the Justice Committee on the phone that the police are too important to be left to themselves! That's why these points, these averages we've got here, are very, very important. A reform proposal submitted by the Labour Party alone would be different. A reform proposal submitted by the Central Party would look different, and a proposal submitted by only one of the Right would look different. But the nature of a settlement is that you get to know a lot of things and you have to be able to get behind it, but of course not everything. For Telemark, the 110-centrals have been very important, and we wanted primarily no 110-centrals to merge without local authorities agreeing on it. We didn't get along with it, but we're glad that the comparison clearly says no one should be co-located in 2016 without a local desire. I mean, the proposition is doing away with the central reform too bad. I think that when one comes up with a central reform of the police reform on so few sides, one has to have a broader distribution around the scope of tasks of the 110-centrals in the future – when one has to merge the central banks. In Telemark, in Nord-Trundelag and elsewhere, the 110-centrals have a set of additional services that constitute an important societal and preparedness role in that district. This I expect we can also come back and discuss here. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to counter the strong centralisation tendencies of the original proposal. It is therefore clear that competence and police forces must be spread internally in the police districts, that they are not just centralised near the police officer. Several police districts already have well-functioning operational units, and this must be taken into account in the implementation of police reform. Today, there is a broad majority in the Storting that sends out a clear signal that the whole country should have the police force that is needed for people to live good and safe lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1016	A police officer without solid investigation is half a police officer. The police analysis dealt with the investigation area superficially. Then the national lawyer cried out a serious warning through his own hearing opinion: ‘The investigation is, as stated, superficial in its approach to criminal proceedings, both the prosecution and investigation tasks.’ ‘Overall, the national lawyer is not in doubt that the police’s ability to investigate and execute criminal offences is under pressure and the risk of adverse developments is evident.’ The background to this reform is not only the Gjørv Commission and 22 July’s serious judgment on preparedness and security. The sails have been reefed. There's no way out. That is why today Stortinget is dealing with a profound reform of the Norwegian police force. The investigation has recently been criticised in the media and also in the police. The strongest impression has probably been the Monika case in Bergen, with failed investigation management and denial of alerts. Weirding the investigation area weakens the fight against crime, and it challenges legal certainty. That's why the Storting's bright light is being turned against the police's criminal work. The absence of police investigation management remains in many cases. The student no longer has the opportunity to learn from his master. It has nothing to do with the student, but there are too few masters left in the subject. The review among investigators is too high and the status of the subject has been weakened over time. A newly-trained investigator may risk having to conduct a demanding interrogation, the day after graduation from the Police College. The research subject deserves a boost – a professional lift, and a status lift. Therefore, the Government is asking the Government to provide a national action plan for the field of investigation. Criminal proceedings need to be improved. The proportion of criminal cases to be resolved shall be increased. The procedure must be reduced: time between notification and judgment shall be reduced. It's been about six years since Attorney General Tor-Aksel Busch considered the investigation situation in the police as critical. In December 2013, the report from the POD, which put the investigation work under focus, came: ‘The collected material shows that we are facing significant challenges.’ And on the other hand, ‘It is now seen as a lower status to work as an investigator than to perform an operationally uniform police service. It is a central issue in police districts that investigators need to be released more often in order to meet the needs of the district's security and preparedness. This inhibits the continuity of the investigation and undermines quality and propulsion.» That's not how we can keep going. The government will have work arrangements and procedures in place to ensure clear responsibilities and control procedures in the field of investigation. Increasing the status of the research subject is an important part of the work on attitudes, culture and management. Today, researchers are faced with increasingly complex issues to be solved, especially in the area of organised crime and cybercrime. Today, a total of 16 police districts have fewer than five employees within their eco-teams. It does not keep up with the fight against ever more complex economic crime, which is, moreover, a challenge over the whole country. The requirement of knowledge, the requirement of competence, the requirement of good investigation management and not least of specialisation require that the places of employment should not become too small. Fewer police districts will strengthen the investigation environment and increase capacity. And new technology will make immediate exploration much easier. It's a paradox that many of the investigation offices close at 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox There's a direct predisposition in the investigation. Here it just has to be thought again. So finally, it is a fact that the professional responsibility of the higher prosecution authority is, in fact, the only public body that supervises the criminal proceedings of the police. That is why it is so inescapable that the Riks lawyer's priorities for criminal proceedings are respected in the police. And it is immeasurably important that the supervisory reports of the state lawyers be followed up, that the deviations be closed, and that a plan be put in place for when to do so and who should do so – preferably in cooperation between the police themselves and the National Attorney's own representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1056	After the government put forward proposals for new police reform over time, a number of criticisms were raised, which the Labour Party also understood. After the reform was presented, the Workers’ Party’s judicial fraction visited all 27 police districts in Norway. Here we have met police officers, surveyors, active officials, trust-elects and members of the Joint Police Association, the Police Leaders team, the Norwegian Civil Service Team, the police lawyers, etc. We've also met with POD and all the special agencies in the police department. In addition, we have visited Finland, Sweden and Denmark. These have been meetings and conversations that have given us valuable competence and insight into questions that they have also been concerned about. In Norway, we have a well-educated high-quality police force, which has great confidence in our society. Much of the reason for this is the close and good interaction with our citizens in small and large municipalities around the country. The Labour Party has therefore been very concerned in the negotiations on new police reform to further develop the interaction between police and community. This means that municipalities will have far more influence and ownership over the final result of this reform. There will also be great demands on the POD and the new police districts and the police officers in the further process that it becomes real in relation to this. It is also important that police contacts follow local authorities in a good manner, so that there is a good interaction in preventing crime and strengthening local and regional preparedness, and an even better interaction with civil society and all those organisations that make an important contribution to a local community at the time of the crisis. I was so lucky to be on a night patrol in Trondheim before Christmas, during the Christmas season, and got to see the police's interaction with the outdoor industry, with the taxi industry, with bus companies, with guards, with night shifts, etc. – an interaction in a community, where you have good personality, and where there is a low threshold for contacting and reporting matters. It is this preventive work, and with the proposals put forward here by the Labour Party, we strengthen it through both police and police contacts, which means that we will have an even safer society in the future. The Labour Party has not paid so much attention to the number of police districts, but we have been concerned with an appropriate organisation. Not least, we think it is good that Finnmark now becomes one district and gets an independent, 24-hour operating centre, and also that the Border Commissioner is not being laid down. After all the professional recordings we've got, Oslo is now paired up with Asker and Bærum. We think that was a very good conclusion. This is about getting robust and good professional environments with a broad competence. It is very important that we get good and robust police districts. The background for the new organisation is to balance the differences between the 27 districts we have today, and to get a broader professional environment, which can provide an even better range of services. But there are also some challenges to be resourceful when we're going to have maybe twelve operating centres around the country with a base crew of six operators, which can ultimately mean 54 annuals per central, i.e. 648 annuals. That is why I believe it is also important that, in the future, one looks at the possibility of even better cooperation, even better interaction, between the other emergency situations – whether it is fire, or whether it is an ambulance – and the police, who ensure that the knowledge, that resource, is well managed, for the best of the community and the security we need. In addition, I want to return to the line I had on the case rapporteur at the beginning. It went on to say that we were a little concerned about how the follow-up to such a major reform is going to be, and how resource use can ensure that we get a complete profit-making reality when we carry out such major reforms. This is about both the economic and the professional. The Labour Party is concerned that the reform should release resources in a good way, that we should release more police force locally, police force that can contribute to more security, greater security, increased cooperation and not least presence where people live. We also have a strong focus on increased competence and new equipment, which ensures that the daily preparedness of all those living around Norway is properly maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1079	Yesterday it was a rather sad day, I think, in the main hall. But today I am much gentler. In the course of the last year, the Workers' Party's fraction was so-called travellers. We traveled country and beach around to listen and gather knowledge about the situation in the police and what they meant, the ones who had the shoe on – from Finnmark in the north to Agder in the south. It was an interesting trip. We met nice leaders and trust leaders who were happy that we came, and that we were interested in listening to what they thought was important, and how they looked at a future reform. We got a glimpse that something is different, and something similar. The organisation of places of employment was different, cooperation with others was more or less formalised, sometimes through watch lists and joint fixed meeting points. There was a difference in the contact with the municipalities. Cooperation with other agencies on prevention was also somewhat different. But what was similar was a pride in the work, in being a police officer and yes, I would say a pride in having the confidence it is to manage the social responsibility it is to do this important job for all of us. I am also proud that we have such a good police force in Norway. And in many places we had interesting conversations about what culture is. We met trust-elected, researchers, prevention organisations, and together with the committee we also visited establishments that are under the responsibility of the department, and abroad. It is a serious backbone of this reform. Something failed. Something fundamentally failed when 69 young people in Utja Island and 8 employees in central government lost their lives. We're going to do our best not to happen again. It's a big responsibility. That is why I am pleased that there was a broad agreement on the main areas of police reform. For the Workers' Party it was excluded to enter into a settlement without a clearer content, and not only became a new, fresh organisation card. For the Workers' Party, the concreteisation of near-police was important. When we visited Agder Police District, this was one of the topics we talked about. How was the contact with the municipalities? There had been reports in the media about the police's lack of presence in Marnardal and Audnedal, there was widespread ‘cruising’ on narrow and swinging roads, and the rapporteurs Sandåker and Seland asserted disparaging in large letters in newspapers. The police responded that they had to distribute resources as best they could, and they had to give priority where it was important, and most trouble and unrest. That's an understandable and correct argument. During the conversation, it was found that there was no special contact between the municipalities and the police other than at the fixed meeting points, and the police’s elected representatives finally said something like that – I take it after remembering: ‘I think this is about them not feeling to be heard, not that we necessarily need to be visible in the village at all times. We should probably have been better at making contact between the regular meetings as well." Culture and management are about understanding and giving attention to what is going on in environments and cooperative bodies that feel that the police are important to them. There is often more than the correct allocation of resources. A social anthropologist gave my class a task a long time ago: Is a kindergarten a kindergarten when the children have gone home? It's a very wise question, and it addressed what's called culture, or, as we often say, what's in the walls. The police are a hierarchical service, something it should and must be. Culture must not only be readable or expressed in the hierarchy structure – that the number of strips is the definition of leader, that the uniform defines the tasks, that the management or organisational chart is the only one that defines how matters should be resolved. Good management and a well-functioning structure are mostly about building up cooperation and actions that can also work when the external framework for tasks, content or management disappears. The content must form the basis for the structure, not vice versa. It was important for the Workers' Party. There was a difference in the evaluation between the health services’ efforts and the police’s efforts during the crisis that hit us. The health services have been characterised by the same hierarchical structures as the police. Superior was king. He could even own the hospital. It's no longer like that, and we have a lot to learn from health care. Realising the cultural concept of ‘learning organisation’ is about looking for ‘what is in the walls’ and not so easy to discover for others. What has happened in the Hordaland police district is a serious alarm clock. Culture, with the background of this reform, can be moved from sitting in the walls to taking home the heads, hearts and hands of the many policemen who work every day to do an important job.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1109	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1112	I take the floor to talk about competence, education and research in this field. Like all other areas in the private and public sectors, the police should work systematically with lifelong learning. Competence needs to be filled so that employees are up-to-date and are able to handle new tasks, which are still changing. This should be done in close association with research environments which also work with education and skills. The University of Stavanger is one example I want to mention. They have good studies on social security and preparedness, which I know the police are also using. Other institutions also have relevant studies to use. And of course, we have the Police College, which should also be used to a greater extent in continuing education. In the police, they have tradition and culture to be close to those who work with basic training of policemen. Police higher education is likely to have closer contact with those who are going to employ the students than with those in the university and higher education sectors. The contrast is quite great for them, for example. Trains teachers. Rectors and school owners have little contact with the institutions compared to the police. Professional autonomy has a price. We know that over 60 pst. students who graduate from universities and colleges say that they do not experience their education as relevant to the job they receive after the study. I hardly take any great chance in claiming that the figure is much lower for newly educated policemen, which is a great resource for the police. On the other hand, much more research is needed on police work, and the research and the findings that are made have to be used. And I want to say that again: research has to be used. The Minister of Justice promised earlier – in October, to be more precise – a research and development plan for the justice sector and that it was right around the corner. We haven't seen anything like this yet. In particular, I want to highlight skills enhancement related to leadership training, also because it is perhaps one of the most concrete answers when we talk about culture and management. Finally, I want to get into the territory I myself represent, namely Asker and Bærum, which is now becoming part of the Oslo Police District. It's a good solution, so to speak, everyone in our district sees it. South and west would be a very large district geographically. Ashes and Bærum along with Oslo are getting a lot smaller that way, but there are a lot of people. And as you know, there are people who become criminals and who are criminals. Then it is important with enough resources, combined with a local presence that meets the needs of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1127	The backbone of the reform is the Gjørv Commission's report, and that we learn lessons from things that didn't go so well. A lot of good has been said about this today, and I put myself in the line of those who congratulate the Council of State on well-work done. But I am also the Ombudsman of many voters who are very disappointed today. That's why I have to be a little local. The Hordaland municipalities of Bømlo, Stord and Fitjar with their 35,000 inhabitants, or about the same population as in Haugesund, are placed under Stavanger, against their will – neither they nor the county municipality have wanted this. The position we are building on today is based on a POD statement, which states that the main reason why we find it best from a police point of view to keep Sunnhordland with Haugaland lies in communications. There's a ferry-free connection south, while you're still dependent on a ferry for access from the north. No, it's not like that. That's ferry both ways. Iselin Nybø basically said it quite well: this has been an important question that has been worked on a lot, and the solution that is in the setting, that when it is free, this should change, should also be lacking! I hope that will happen, and I hope, of course, as a former transport policy, that it will happen faster than fraud. But I also need to address another issue that arises as a problem in this case, and it concerns state administrative boundaries as a result of the police reform. They must and must fold if the municipalities in a given area choose to merge. These state boundaries after merger must then follow the new municipal boundaries – this is because of course it will be completely hopeless for a large municipality to be part of two police districts. In Sunnhordland and in those municipalities etc. such work is on-going, in which a single large municipality is assessed. And then this will happen. So I'm glad that when this has been discussed in other contexts than right here in the Chamber, the Prime Minister himself has confirmed that it is the state boundaries that must extend to new municipal boundaries in merged municipalities. I would like to add that it should also be up to the new large municipality to be able to choose its belongings, and this should not least be possible to do so even when merger agreements have been concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1142	Police reform has had a long foreplay. Follo Police District, including parts of Eastfold, was one of two pilots appointed to test out border controls and committed cooperation with the municipalities. The experiment has been in full operation since 1 June 2010, so Follo police districts are well equipped to become part of the eastern district – now also together with the whole of Eastfold and Rome – a residential area with about 700,000 inhabitants. In concrete terms, the number of geographical holdings in the Follo police district was reduced from 13 to 2 when the experiment started — not without teething properly, especially when the financial assumptions contained in the agreement were not honoured, unfortunately. Follo police districts both had and have about the lowest police coverage in the country, and I therefore point this out to the target that is at stake today, namely that by 2020, the target of two police officers per thousand inhabitants on average in the country is to be achieved. That's good. Many police districts are needed, not least in those that are close to our larger cities — not to say the largest — and not least when what is now required for response time. I stressed the time when, as rapporteur, I cooperated with the police on the pilot scheme, interaction between local civil authorities, the municipality and the police. There was a lot left to do that time. Now this is part of the reform. Safe communities are created through broad cooperation on local crime prevention. A well-functioning interface with dialogue and information flows between police and local communities is a prerequisite for good prevention and crime prevention. Participation and ownership of prevention work must be anchored at the top level, both at municipalities and local police. Accessibility and preparedness are fundamental to the confidence of the police in the population, because as citizens we are assured that the police have resources that exist and that find each other. The police shall carry out active prevention activities in their own direction and in cooperation with others. And today's decision ensures a police force in which police and community interactions are strengthened. That's good. I am convinced – after what we have learned in Follo – that availability and preparedness cannot be ensured by maintaining a Länsmannskontoret with short opening hours and low crewing, but by getting more operational and visible police officers with the competence to deal with the situations that may arise. When the crime scene changes, the structures of the police must also be changed. Furthermore, President, it is my opinion, as a representative from Follo in Akershus, that it is logical that the main police force in the East region should be in the middle of the new district, namely in Ski, especially because that is directly at the railway junction and already lies an appropriate newly built police station – but that was my opinion. With larger and fewer police districts, we get a more robust neighbourhood police force with more competence to investigate and prevent crime in each police district – and that’s good.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1163	The President, as Mr Østfold's representative, shall not comment on the position!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1166	Wide lashing is good and necessary, but it would have been a strength if we had taken a clear grip on both structure and content today. The Labour Party has highlighted the work on attitude, culture and leadership. And as has been said from this pulpit: culture cannot be adopted – it is created. It's about leadership. Culture eats structure for lunch. Organisational culture is omnipotent, organisational culture is involved in managing behavior, it is glued that keeps the organisation together, and is an incredibly important tool for change. But it also surprises me that the debate has been so little concerned about how high the police have become in recent times, and in particular that there has been no clearer clarification as to the role of the police. It is important to balance the need for a uniform police force with the fact that the strength, knowledge and actions of the police are in direct contact with the operational work of the police every day. In my experience of civil, within the Nav, the exact same thing happened, and it was not healthy. The police have to take over the changes that are taking place today. What is referred to as close-up police is a police department that knows its local environment, which is able to prevent crime, which reacts quickly and ensures presence not only where people live, but also where people live and are at work. Crime challenges have changed. We've got a lot more financial crime. Violence in close relationships has received increased attention, fortunately. Labour crime is lifted, and so is trafficking in human beings. As for culture, I come from Hordaland, and it has been sad to see the police and read about what has happened in the Monika case, which has revealed critical investigation management and critical treatment of internal alerts. We need to focus more on the quality of criminal proceedings. This is said to be part of the plan, but we have also received feedback on the lack of interaction between lawyers and the police. It is absolutely vital that the lawyers are given more competence in this area and that the police are given more competence, so that the lawyers know what the scope for action and what the legal base is for the crimes to be investigated. As a representative from Hordaland, I, in the same way as my colleague, Mr Halleraker, would like to highlight my disappointment that Bømlo, Mr Fitjar and Mr Stord are no longer allowed to belong to our territory. We hope then that the local work on the community reform might be able to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1185	The Police and the People's House is an important resource in our society. They do a good and important job to ensure a safe and good local environment. This is why police reform needs to be implemented in such a way as to provide the best possible neighbourhood police force, at the same time as one can take care of and build strong professional environments and specialist functions. In Sogn and Fjordane, it was initially a concerted desire to further develop the county model. When it hasn't been possible, most people think it's right that you go along with Hordaland police districts, as it is now agreed. Today, we have a good police and officers' seat in our state, and it is very important to facilitate further development of the good aspects of the police services. Police reform must also enable us to meet the new police challenges we see in society. As a representative of Sogn and Fjordane, I believe it is very important that professional workplaces linked to the police station in Florø be strengthened. It is pointed out in the message that functional operational units can be created for the treatment of civil and administrative tasks where this is appropriate in terms of efficiency and robustness of service provision. This space for action should be used to fill new and forward-looking tasks in Florø. We have had a police reform that has broad support for the Stortinget. The main points in the agreement between the government parties, the cooperation parties and the Labour Party are among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t municipal co-ownership of the change process The work on culture and leadership anchored politically all municipalities get a police contact that should be present one or more days a week in municipalities without a place of service Local knowledge, prevention and participation in the local environment in order to capture negative developments are still a priority task in the police, and it is therefore important that provision be made for police officers and women to take part in the spread. The near-police reform states that each municipality should have at least one permanent contact person at the county office or police station. Accessibility and preparedness are fundamental to the confidence of the police in the population. Police play an important role in prevention. Therefore, it is particularly important that this part of police work is also anchored in the rental. It will be important for crime prevention to be anchored in the strategic leadership group in the individual police districts. To ensure that we get a strong focus on prevention, it is crucial that the police develop good measurement parameters for all crime prevention work. This will result in an even better focus on police prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1214	Police reform is about our common security and our ability to protect people living here, and our ability to prevent future serious incidents. The Labour Party wants a police reform, and that as a continuation of the work we started while we were in government through the Gjørv Commission report and with the Police Analysis. The backbone of police reform is serious, and it is therefore extremely important for us to make the necessary changes to the police. We believe it is important to have a broad majority in the Grand Duchy when we are going to adopt the police reform, as committee leader Hadia Tajik has been a driving force for good negotiations. We in the Workers' Party emphasise that we should have a good professional environment throughout the country, and we should maintain the acquired skills that are also available around the country. The basic competence of the police in Kristiansund is a good example of this. It is built over time – yes, on a kgl. Resolution of the 1980s. Today, there are four police districts that have such responsibilities: Rogaland, Northern Ireland and Romesdal, Troms and Nordland. Stavanger and Kristiansund thus have experience from the base, while Troms and Helgeland are newer and have a more forward-looking perspective on that work. From the outset, it was the most focused research, but in recent times, the field of preparedness has of course also become more important. It is also good to be able to demonstrate that the police reform focuses on dealing with terrorism, which is, of course, part of the area of competence and the training base of today’s team. Today, this competence is being used offshore, and it could also be used in nearby industrial installations, such as the Tent God, the Worm Lange, Hydro Sunndal, Hustadmarmor, etc., which is a good argument for maintaining this competence where it is today. The team consists of eight people, three of whom are detectives and five tactical investigators, including the leader. Of course, they have a lot of other tasks, but they also have an annual training week in the area that is important, and the exercises are coordinated between the oil companies, the Defence and the PST. The results of the exercises and the exercises they've been doing have been very positive, and something to be proud of. Experience shows that the team operating locally is easy to get on the pedestal, and it was difficult for the Workers' Party to understand that this should be moved from Kristiansund to Stavanger. The government's argument was that only knowledge was collected as much as possible in Stavanger, everything would be better. We believe that that device was a poor medication for a healthy patient, from close to distant. So we are happy that this is now being maintained in the four areas that already have it, and that it can be further developed from there to become a safe and good competence that we have throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1234	In a number of very important areas of society, there is a strong winds of centralisation over Norway. Same political argument is used for municipalities, for high schools, for hospitals, for fire and for police. But it's not that only one gets bigger hospitals, larger police districts, larger high schools or larger municipalities, gets a better service provision for those for whom the services are for, that is, our inhabitants. True this will cause the devices to grow larger and robust, but will not be able to defend it. But with a political feeling that big is strong, the political plurality is driving forward major structural reforms in Norway, centralisation reforms that lead to the centralisation of important supply of people's health and security from where people cage. It happens quickly, and it happens in a gallant way, with new words and a rhetoric that might want some. The police reform has been given the provocative and misleading name ‘near-police reform’. The reform adopted today is not a near-police reform that will secure a local police force in the future. The police's preventive work in many municipalities has been effectively discontinued. The reform does not follow the criticism of the Gjørv Commission. In the Gjørv Commission received, among others: Oslo police district very strongly criticises. The conclusion reads as follows: ‘In the opinion of the Commission, these lessons are more about management, interaction, culture and attitudes than lack of resources, need for new legislation, organisation or choice of values.’ Police reform, therefore, does not address the basic challenges facing the police. Instead of addressing the challenges of leadership, interaction, attitude and culture and actually following up the Yurv Commission, we get an action policy in larger structures, where the police’s successful prevention work in many municipalities can’t in practice continue. The organisation of the police is very important for people's lives and security. Several have been involved, but there is great dissatisfaction in Hordaland about the setting today. Bømlo, Fitjar and Stord do not have the right to Hordaland, despite strong protests from the spokesmen, from the Right and Labour Party, in these municipalities. The representatives Halleraker and Grung have discussed this before – they point out that a municipal reform and a large municipality in Sunnhordland will now come. Then I have one comment: then it is so crazy that with great shall great be driven away.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1252	According to the view of the Centre Party, a loner's office should not be just an outer shell with a wall sign. It is a symbol of presence and local knowledge. The countyman is an institution in the community, and, together with others added to the county office, he is a local and locally anchored police officer. The debate today is a golden opportunity to speak up the local police. The centre party believes that this kind of reform has been introduced, as the plurality suggests, will lead to the disappearance of many lumbarist offices around the country. We'll get less presence by the police, and the distances will be great. We have too much time to respond. The resources are centralised so that some people can say that the grenade offices constitute a false security. I think that's a simplification and an expression of a bad district policy. In other words, the target of two police officers per thousand inhabitants now does not apply everywhere. When we hear the word 'near-police reform', it speaks out provocatively, but when we see its content, it is in practice a centralisation reform in which the bearing element is to assess how to centralize police force and power. Crime and events take place throughout the country, in cities and in branches. For people who live on the islands, there is little help in keeping a high level of watch in the nearest city when the ferry has stopped going, or when the distances are too large to reach in time. The Central Party will stress that the police of the future must be built from below. It is important that a political person not only discusses structure but sticks to reality. A police leader who is very distant from the outside part of the organisation will have less knowledge of important local knowledge and may be at risk of prioritising the necessary resources errors. The centre party will point out how important it is for us politicians to suggest that it be a visible, present and preventive police force. This is necessary in order to ensure safe and good communities. This means that strict response time requirements must be introduced across the country. People in Norway are entitled to feel safe and get needed help from the police. In the view of the Centre Party, this will not happen with the proposals of the majority for the reorganization of the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1270	All emergency organisations have some typical characteristics: mobility, responsiveness, ability to leave and to submit to departments and to be able to link resources. Crime has no limits. The boundaries are only the police districts that know. You can say a lot about the project Grensenlos in the police, but you have to set up your own organization in the police to get around your own organisational boundaries, is probably proof that you have to do something with the existing organisation. That's exactly what the police reform is doing. A new organisation of Norwegian police will be established to enable resources to find each other more quickly. The representative Arnstad was in on an article by Hanne Skartveit. Hanne Skartserie has a sharp pen. I assume that the representative Arnstad has also read the Gjørv Commission's report and the police analysis. It'll be fine. But Hanne Skartveit also said that the law's long arm should also be a helping hand – she wrote in the same article. But to be a helping hand, you actually have to be there, and you have to be there 24 hours a day. Oslo police districts and Asker and Bærum police districts are now being merged. It will provide a police district with better impact and better preparedness in the capital area. It's a change in the spirit of the Gjørv Commission. Finally, today the Stortinget has done the job, but – I was about to say – the most important part of the job starts after the Stortinget has finished. In that case, the management of the Norwegian police shall enforce Stortinget’s decision. It is the new police officers – whoever it may be – who become the change ambassadors of the Stortinget, and then it is so important that the new police officers who are hired are the best women and men, based on objective and verifiable criteria.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1283	It is positive that a broad settlement has been reached in this major reform, and even if the Workers' Party has not had an impact on everything in its primary position, at least we have had an impact on the conciliation on significant changes compared to the government's presentation. In this context, I'm going to spend time with the local police, which I'm very concerned about. The police district is being maintained as today, and that's good. With regard to the community structure in Agder, the police chief carried out the so-called Project Agder in 2010 and 2011. The conclusion was that the places of employment should be reduced from 27 to 11. All new offices were laid along the coast strip, with the exception of one office. The project was stopped, and that was good. At the time, I was rapporteur, and many municipalities were critical of the comments made on the proposal. Now we get a new process also in Agder, and therefore I am pleased with the strong leaders from the setting of the further process. In this context, I would like to highlight the following from the setting: firstly, it is emphasised that there should be a close-up police force that is operational, visible and available. It must be a close-up police officer who is decentralised, locally present and has good local knowledge. In addition, it is stated that there should be a near-policy measure present in each municipality. In the case of local processes, it is important to underline the following: the number of places of employment shall not be reduced as much as in the estimates of the Police Analysis. It is stated that there should be local co-ownership and that municipalities should be represented in steering groups. All municipalities shall be given the opportunity to deliver opinions, and these shall be given weight. I would also like to emphasise that the powers of the Directorate of Police require the necessary local anchoring, and not least in cases of local disagreement, the municipalities concerned may appeal to the Ministry. In addition, it is important to clarify that if the minimum procedural requirements are not met, this should be given crucial importance in the review process. It is also important to mention that in this review process, the political level is finally the one to make the decision. With this I look forward to good local processes in terms of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1294	On Saturday 18 January 2014, there was a warning fire in a cabin on Lærdalsøiri. One minute later, there was an alarm in Lærdal, and five minutes later the first fire truck was in front — with the local part - time fire. Police and AMK were alerted. Those who stood up and handled the situation did their job well. They used their knowledge and their common sense and mobilized everything they had from force and effort. People were fighting the flames of the sick house was the next stop. How does the big community meet these experiences? What lessons did the directorate, the ministry and the national authorities take from what worked and from what did not work? I mean, both the Directorate of Police and the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness were and are on the wrong track when they all talk about the need for robust units in response to the challenges in the future. Instead of building society from below and developing what works well – think new and put into practice new knowledge and new technologies to improve and create more security – put them into old-fashioned centralisation thinking. Unfortunately, both the department and the plurality of Stortinget are on the same road. The make-up commission does not use the word 'robust' as a spell spell spell in its settings. On the other hand, the Commission writes: ‘In the opinion of the Commission, these lessons are more about management, interaction, culture and attitudes than lack of resources, need for new legislation, organisation or choice of values.’ I don't think anyone in Lærdal – if they had been in contact with Bergen this night – had time to inform people behind desks far away, or a patrol that was just as far away, about how to handle waste winds and others. Teams from all over the district got together and did their jobs because they knew each other, had training, had local skills to extract people from the houses – and they cooperated in a formidable way across fire, police and other recovery modes. Today's business last Saturday had a very good attachment, with a good introduction to what it means when resources find each other. Then local knowledge means something. This means that there are common limits in fact, that you can have exercise activity in layers and know what to do when the accident is over. There's not much help in coming out with professional units and blue lights when the house is well down and people are dead.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1310	After the insertion of the representative of Navarsete, I will only first state that yes, I am completely in agreement: Sogn and Fjordne should have been an own police district in the future as well. That's not what it's going to be. Many people have asked me why the Labour Party went into negotiations for police reform at all and finally got behind the final agreement. The simple answer is that the alternative had been separation worse. We know very well if the agreement that was there between the Right, the Progress Party and the Left had been standing. It wouldn't be a private police district either. It was a bad starting point when one was going to negotiate, but I find that we came very far in the right direction, and that it would be irresponsible to report. For the country as a whole, it's drawn in the right direction. The agreement ensures participation in the processes of the municipalities around the service cities and the complainants’ conditions where the final decision is at political level, the Minister of Justice. In addition, changes should be based on a risk/vulnerability analysis, and the police officer should submit a plan to the municipalities on what services the police will provide. It is very good that the Labour Party, with good support from among others. The central party and the Christian People's Party, have a note about the change in the requirement of the local place of service. The rule of at 90 pst. to be reached by the population in a maximum of 45 minutes, should be payable on the basis of the existing police district border and also on the assumption that this 90 pst. requirement is too ambitious. If this principle had been put into practice here today, it would have been more difficult to set up police departments in Sogn and Fjordane, and if the minister wants to fulfill a wish from me, it is precisely to look at it. The high staffing requirement of the emergency centres makes it almost impossible to hold both the generalist/district idea and the small counties, such as Sogn and Fjordane. We just have to recognize that. That would have been one third of the police force had it been used up there, for our subject, and we only have 160 in total. For Sogn and Fjordane, merging with Hordaland is a step backwards. We are very good at cooperating across the border between the preparedness seats today, and we have good and thorough local knowledge, so I am very pleased that the Labour Party, in the form of a comment, points this out and says that there should be a binding strategy for multidisciplinary cooperation and that it should evaluate regional action leadership. I am also very satisfied with what is said about competence jobs in the comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1325	Tragedy on 22 July gave rise to a debate on how the police should evolve. We got the Gjørv Commission – liberating honestly. We then received the statement from Prime Minister Stoltenberg on 28 August 2012, where he said: ‘The problem is not primarily a lack of resources, legislation or organisation, but cultures, attitudes towards preparedness and the ability to interact.’ The Prime Minister went on to say: ‘The least demanding is to grant more money, to adopt plans. Decide on reorganisations. The most important job is bigger. It's about leadership. strengthening of attitudes; Change in crops related to preparedness. Understanding dangers in a safe society.’» As a member of the Control Committee, it is very special for me to deal with a matter in which no further consideration has been given to this matter. The control committee considered it and there were two important points. It was to what extent someone was going to take constitutional responsibility for the tragedy, and it was organisation and management. Unfortunately, there was no constitutional responsibility. That was wrong. What was done, on the other hand, was comments related to organisation and management, and it is a majority comment that describes in a very good way what is necessary to exercise leadership in such a situation. The leadership exercised by the leader of Grubbegata was exemplary. It is a type of leadership that must permeate the entire organisation, and it is accurately described in what is the comment of the majority parties on that point. The special thing is that the references to the report of the Gjørv Commission from the Gjørv Committee's proceedings and the position of the control committee have not been noticed – it should be noted by the Council of State – not a trace of the proposition, in the setting, in the debate. It's very special. Because that's what was at the heart of the Gjørv Commission's report, that's what was at the heart of the Prime Minister's opinion, that's what was at the heart of the examination of the Control Committee – that it was organisation and management. Then that doesn't make any sense. What goes on is a name, a near-police reform, a new speech, which is really going to camouflage what is at the core: the centralisation of structures, the centralization of management, the centralization of power, which is in stark contrast to what was the Stortinge's treatment of the Gjørv Commission's report. As if this would not lead to greater problems for management when there is so different understanding of what this is! It says on paper: Near-police is centralisation reform. It will cause new problems. There's going to be a new control case in a few years, because what's said, and what's being done, are two different things.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1342	The main objective of the police reform we are about to adopt today is to release administrative resources for operational services – strengthened preparedness, more presence, more visible police, closer police, more prevention and more police patrols on the road. And we're going to make the police even better able to face the seriousness and complexity of today's and the future crime scene -- a closer and even more competent police force for the big events, but also for the everyday drama, which is serious enough for that matter, that the police are there, that it's being pushed out when we need it the most. The government also strengthens the police with more resources for more jobs, and the target is two police officers per 1 000 inhabitants. The Gjørv Commission's report showed that the police had a lot to learn, including from the other emergency situations, and that there's a lot to learn about better interaction between them. Therefore, the new demand for response time, which is part of this reform, is a very central step, and the other emergency budgets also deliver according to such requirements. Time requirements for response to phone requests and call-out time requirements are reasonable, ranging from 20 to 45 minutes. It will undoubtedly strengthen the preparedness and security of its citizens. After listening to this debate, it is tempting to ask the Central Party, which is close to idylling today's structure in the police and officers' seats, whether the solutions of the past are the answers to the challenges of the future, and whether there is no greater repertoire in its descriptions of necessary reforms than'massive centralisation'. To characterise the changes that lie in the reform as experiments is, with respect to reporting, unreasonable, based on the conclusions of the Gjørv Commission and the recommendations of the Police Analysis. There are thorough and broad investigations, and there are many debates we have behind us. It doesn't help people in District Norway either if the driving time to the nearest county office is 45 minutes or less, when the office is closed. And it also doesn't provide adequate response time and availability when, as today in the representative Arnstads and my home country, the Nord-Trøndelag, it can be three, maybe four, patrols on duty on weekends, which will cover the whole county. With regard to the 110 centres and future co-location with the police emergency services, it is important that the sound competence, the good quality of the services provided by the 110 centres today, and the good interaction with the other emergency facilities are not weakened by the co-location, taking the time needed in the process to ensure sound and operational preparedness. When Trøndelag now becomes one police district, it is important for me to be clear that it is an expectation from a comprehensive political environment in the North Trondelag that the administration of the new police district is not centralized to Trondheim, but added to Stjørdal. I would also like to take this opportunity today to express pride in the work the police are doing on a daily basis. The budget means a lot and is strong in the people's consciousness, and I wish the police good luck in the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1357	It would have been tempting to start with a question, if the Norwegian police are under resolution today. And should those who are behind the setting go with black pads on the arm? Because after listening to some posts here, it seems that the death penalty against the Norwegian police is being imposed today. At my discretion, it is a totally erroneous conclusion. As I see it, there are three main elements that are important when we discuss police premises, primarily the public's expectations of the police as a body. The second is the quality of the individual official or servant, the job they represent, their integrity and ability to perform their duties. That's maybe the last thing I mention now, which is almost the most important thing, and that's police management. Without good management, you don't get good results either. If we go back to the first, the Police Act §§1, 2 and 3 provides clear guidance as to the kind of responsibility the State has, and the expectations of the police in preventing, preventing and resolving. That's also the goal of what we're doing today. I see no changes. I do not see any reduction in expectations from the state to the Norwegian police. There is no one who has removed the requirements primarily contained in Sections 2 and 3 of the Police Act. They're where they're set, and they're absolute, and that's the goal the police are going to work on. The quality of Norwegian police is consistently good. They have a good education, they do good jobs. Feedback from police officers who work, for example: through the UN system, are consistently positive because of good quality, ability to look for solutions, and lack of bureaucracy. That's why it's the quality of the single officials out there. And when I listen to the Center Party, I'm going to think that much of the same is your argument. But they're worried that the corresponding local loner quality is going to go away. But a police sign on the wall doesn't help anyone. So for management. Some time ago, the head of the Judicial Committee had an interpellation on police management, and I think it was a good debate. Police management is about taking responsibility when things are difficult, not sticking away and delegating them to others. The challenges, as I see it, will be whether we have a police directorate who will be able to deal with the challenges we face in the future, and that it will not be a symbol of what others have pointed out here today: some sort of centralisation. So, of course, I expect the Council of State to have a continuous, continuous and ambitious dialogue with the police director. The Police Director shall translate into action what the Storting will. I see it as the police director has a little something to do with being offensive. I want a police director who's even clearer, and the most important thing is that he's in charge of the police - that's not what the Council of State does. The Council of State has a political responsibility, the operational responsibility lies with the police director, and I expect him to take it and follow up on what he is going to do, after the Storting has made his decisions during the day today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1370	The Labour Party will vote against II, which is about to assess the future organisation of the police’s national response capacities. Because it stands out that so benevolent, I would also like to explain why we are going to vote against it. It is because the Workers' Party will not initially want the national response resources to be e.g. a new special body, and neither do we want them directly to be placed under the Directorate of Police. Both are the possible outcomes of this decision, and we want to resist it. The reason for this is that if you do this, you will be able to have at least two undesirable effects. Firstly, some of the national response capacities, e.g. the preparedness team, losing its civil character. The second thing is that the Police Directorate is developing in a more operational direction. It is important for me to be told that if this happens, it will be against the will of the Labour Party and without a mandate from us. The strength of the fact that national response resources belong to the capital, and when Oslo police districts, act, among other things. on the proximity of the daily work. It affects, among other things: the emergency response force, as 50 pst. of time trains and builds competence, and 50 pst. time patrols in regular service. They plead this way to improve the quality of the overall police work, and it helps to contribute to their own civil character. Having a guard strap in a special agency directly under the Directorate of Police will lead to a more militarized emergency team, and we do not want that. On ABC News, the director of the Department of Preparedness in May said that several solutions can be thought of as a result of such an assessment, among others. that national response resources are directly directed from the Situation Centre of the Police Directorate. It's the other developments we don't want the situation centre in the Police Directorate to act as a kind of national operating centre. The Police Directorate has an important role, but that role is professional, it's administrative, and it's about supporting districts, not taking over their tasks. It's the districts that have the quantifiable training to take the best operational decisions in crises and disasters, because they're the ones who handle them in everyday life. It is an important part of the consensus today that the government should come back to a clarification on national crisis management, decide on a scalable operating centre, but also that we are some of them that: ‘any national operational centre is slightly more and slightly different from the situation centre of the Directorate of Police’. The working party is for national response resources to be organised as well as for today, but we do not want them to lose their proximity to everyday life, and we do not want one to develop the Police Directorate in a more operational direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1386	It is always an advantage for a debate that there is some clarity in what one says. Those to adopt this reform today could at least recognise that this is a centralisation. But not even there is someone standing on the speaker's chair who dares to say. Instead, they use the term "near police", a police officer like VG's commentator Frithjof Jacobsen said had to be well-informed by some spin doctors in some of the parties. At least it is a concept that is not filled with content at all. It's a fact that 15 out of 27 police districts disappear. It's a fact that 100 to 144 loner offices are disappearing. No one dares to say how many loner offices are missing, but we realize that it's where it is. But it's the Police Directorate that's going to decide. There's really something sad about a debate where a number of representatives are up and have opinions about where things should be, have opinions about things that shouldn't have been moved, and have opinions about how you should have changed things. But the fact is that the majority today have waived the right and the ability to have opinions, have influence over this. It's delegating them today to the government, who's going to delegate it to the Police Directorate. If one really meant anything about this today, one should have made decisions that made it a big deal and a government that made the decisions. It is absolutely correct that I have referred to Hanne Skartvet's comment. I think that was a good comment. She also says in and out that the police ‘at their worst’ are ‘also about what is not happening’, about computer systems that do not find each other, about ‘activities that do not talk together’. I want to mention an example from my own state, namely the fire in Flatanger. There were people who talked together and dared to make decisions, but it wasn't because of the police – it was unfortunately across the police. The police would wait until more central powers and orders were given when it came to evacuation, but the fire chief said we had to evacuate. If they hadn't, I don't know how it would have been. I don't think they know that either, but they probably think a lot about it. Then I want to say two words in the end to my associate, Elin Rodum Agdestein. She obviously believes that anyone who disagrees with the Right is backward and has no thoughts about the future. Well, the Central Party has clear thoughts about what it's going to do to have a local and present police in the future, but that's quite different from the centralization adopted today. Then I'll have a explanation of vote later – or I can just mention briefly that the Central Party is going to vote against the law and against II and VIII in the vote on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1401	I want to thank the Stortinget for a very good debate on a very important matter, and I have great respect and understanding for the commitment of the Center Party. What I don't have the same understanding of, and it might be that it has to do with my perception, is that cutting from 27 to 12 police districts is a dramatic rage and centralization of Norwegian police, while cutting from 27 to 18, as the Central Party will, has no centralization effect. So the difference between what the Center Party wants and what the broad majority in this Chamber wants is six police districts. Neither has the centre party said that one should maintain all the candidatures, so I'm glad that we have a thorough and proper debate on this, but I'm a little surprised that the difference between a centralised police force and a decentralised police force is 12 or 18 police districts. It seems amazing. I have registered that the representative Lundtigen believes that there is no trace of the core points of the Gjørv Commission in the proposition. I fundamentally disagree with that. I believe that if you read that proposition, you recognize more areas of follow-up. I must also say that I am a little surprised that Mr Lundtegen, who has a long experience from the Committee on Control and Constitution, from the Chair and based on what is being proposed, and what is being said from the Chair here, should promote a kind of threat to a new control case. I think we just have to admit that there is a political disagreement about this. We believe, together with a broad majority in this Chamber, that we should have a more robust neighbourhood police force, which can better prevent together with organisations, together with municipalities, and which will be present to a much greater extent than today. The centre party has one more challenge, and I mention it because I see that Lundtegen is going up on the intercom after me: the model with the county model is thus significantly more expensive than a model with 12 – significantly more. Either it means that you have much more resources for the police, or you have to get those resources from somewhere. Nor have I heard that the Central Party has said that it is a well - located local police force when it reaches 40 p.m. by our officers' offices are five or fewer employees. We have to think a little differently, I think, and I think that's what -- briefly summarized -- is the starting point of the Yeast Commission, better management, better culture and a completely different thinking to deal with big and small events. Because I don't see any trace of completely different thinking in the posts that have been from the Center Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1410	Obviously, there is political disagreement. More and more people experience that when governments and others use ‘robust’, it means centralisation. I did not say that the Gjørv Commission did not have strong references to the work and the debate that we now have. My point was that the Gjørv Commission's position was, after all, dealt with in the control committee, where the current Council of State was the leader, and where this was one of the two main issues, and where the majority went into it thoroughly. The majority, the red-green ones, said in a comment, where the last sentence was: ‘It is for all these preparedness organisations that they need decentralised management to realise the intention of the overall level.’» That's the point. What is the Storting's treatment of the case, which focused on management and not on the centralisation of structures, has been removed. I understand why, because someone didn't agree on it, but that's a fact. The centre party does not criticise today's structure, but we say that the most important thing is management, which was pointed out by the Gjørv Commission, which was pointed out by the Prime Minister, who was pointed out by the Control Committee, and which is now also pointed out by the Riksrevision in the last case currently under consideration in the Committee, where we had to have a hearing on a Saturday. Everything was on the right track, and now it was even better, but then there was a hearing on Saturday. Something's not right. Something's not right! There's no match between what's being said and what's being done. The centre batch is seagoing in order for one to have a continuous change. One can't stand. Everything that's stiff is dead. So what's our option? Well, it's that we don't see that it's right to bet money on the Police Directorate, as it is now done. There you can reduce, state council, and you can also reduce the number of operating centres that are very expensive. That's why we're going in for a state model and we're saving a lot of money on it. – Frankly and honestly, a county model where you have a police leader and a county rapporteur who has the same geographical area, which is unbearable in all political practice. So the most important thing – that one has to have a police force attached to each municipality. We have to have a county office that has both authority and police resources to keep order in its territory and to prevent, and that is based on local knowledge. You world, what can make and reduce costs if you have local knowledge. It's said in festivities. Every police officer knows that it is crucial, but when it comes to structures, the centralisation is the point, not the experience of 22 July, namely management, competent management, competent people with equipment and communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1427	The representative, Marit Arnstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1430	I think maybe the government parties should decide what kind of attack they're attacking the Center Party. Some representatives from the Right stand here and say that because the Center Party doesn't agree with what the Right does, we don't want any change, then we're fossils. Then the Council of State comes up and says that the Central Party will also have centralization. They must select one of the versions; both versions cannot be true at the same time. It is as the representative Lundtigen says, that one must have a continuous change. The centre part has a clear alternative in this setting, and that's the county model. It's that one shouldn't drop between 100 and 144 LEN's office because it'll be dramatic for District Norway. The police directorate is now going to translate the decisions into reality today, but the directorate almost doesn't know what to do with them, because the political parties have not dared to tell you today about what the future police Norway is really going to look like.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1437	The police reform was much better after the conciliation. You could say that. I represent Eastfold, which is a large border state, with Ørje over E18 and Svinesund over E6 as the sovereign largest border crossings we have in the country. There are many skilled customs officers who create a lot of work for the police. We're supposed to be happy about that, because customs are discovering a lot of things that we want to ask ourselves to get into the country, so this is good. I took the floor because I record that before the reform has been adopted, a localization debate starts from this pulpit. I had hoped that we would not have, but, as I said, I record that up to several representatives, also a representative from Akershus County, Sylvi Graham, with whom Østfold now has to share districts, is fast ahead and launches alternatives in relation to where the main seat should be located. I had hoped that we could now let the process go, involving our competent local and regional politicians in general and in small parts in this reform, both in the case of Länsmann offices and head offices. I'm not going to go out of time, but at least I can assure the representative Graham that if it's about finding suitable places, Eastfold has a number of good suggestions to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1448	The representative of Haarek Rivers has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1451	I want to make an attempt to bring the representative Arnstad out of his rhetorical blind lead, if possible. The example is taken from the South Trendelag, which Arnstad probably knows well. There, Røros and the Holtålen Länsmannskontoret have joined forces. Through that merger, you got an extra patrol. The employees, the union and the police officer think this was a good solution. There are many Norwegian Länsmann offices that are in the same situation, which can get more policemen out into the village and city by doing the same thing. Is that what the representative Arnstad and the Central Party call centralization, believe?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1456	I realized that the representative Arnstad was a little annoyed that the approaches to the Center Party were different, but she really did well to explain what is the Central Party's alternative. It's a county model. This means in practice 18 police districts because Agder is merged. Of course, that's what I'm saying. However, there must be more centralisation than 27, provided that one bases the Central Party's premise that any closure of a police district is centralisation. Then I register that the second part of it is that one should maintain all of the janitor's offices or offices. The same mistake was repeated when the police reform was carried out in 2000–2001. At that time, changes were made to the district structure, but changes were not made to a particular extent to the place of employment structure. As a result, no more police force was released. That's why it's so important that you see this in context and see that the most important thing is that you actually get more police force out where people live. I believe that is an important part of the thinking behind the near-police reform. So to the local presence: to the extent that you think it's essential that there should be a janitor's office nearby, that of the criteria after the conciliation, and that was also in the premise of the proposition, that 90 pst. the travel time of the population of a police district shall not exceed 45 minutes to the nearest officers’ office. So it's not going to be very dramatic for most of us, nor with travel distances to the nearest county office. Then I have to comment briefly on what Mr Lundtegen said about the Police Directorate. There you could save money, said the representative Lundteg, who is otherwise so concerned that we should follow up the recommendations of the Yeast Commission. One of the conclusions of the Gjørv Commission was that the Police Directorate was too poorly equipped to be the driver of quality and coordination in Police Norway as they should be. There, the representative Lundteigen will cut a few small dollars in relation to the Directorate of Police, at least in calculations that we have received along the way in these processes, says there is a dramatic increase in the cost of having 18 police districts compared to a lower number of, for example, 10-12 police districts. Now it's going to be 12. I think the Center Party kind of argues a little bit to itself this way. They have to do that, but I don't think it's going to add to the soundness of what's going to be this hall's conclusion later today. We're going to have a more robust police force. We're going to have a police force that frees up more police force. That means that we get a near-police that is where people are to a greater extent, when they need it, than what is the case today. It should also be in the spirit of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1467	Let me start with a case report after Lundtigen's previous article. In the Progress Party, it's not like everything that's hard is dead, maybe it's the opposite. But now leave it. I think the ambition this time is as big as it was the last time the Stortinge adopted a police reform, and in the discussion behind it. And there's really only one judge, and that's the population. It's the people's experience of closeness to the Norwegian police that's the key, not the number of police signs, not the number of police cars, not the number of employees, but that the police are available when you need it. That's the key. I also perceive that it is the ambition of what is in the reform today. I was on the Justice Committee from 2001 and discussed phase 2 as they went down from 54 to 27. One of the challenges at the time was, as the Council of State was about, that the Storting might not have taken the chance to discuss the number of loner offices. After a few years at Stortinget, I've learned that there are a few things that are quite sacred here. The county seat is one of those. Another is Homeland. You don't mess with the two without checking out that you have the Storting with you. Not least a former State Council of the Workers' Party has learned at an extraordinary meeting here in August a few to three years ago. You have to be careful about what you do, and then you have to be clear about your ambitions. At my discretion, not the number of county offices or districts is the key. It is the public's experience of being assisted when they need it, the public's experience of the service in the offices and the police stations that are still to be run. It will be that you manage to deliver in terms of response time, and not least what is perhaps the most important thing now – that people get a number to deal with. If you know where you live, it'll take an hour, you accept it. It's not like now that you call and they say they'll come when they can. When? Well, when they get hold of a patrol, etc. Now the ambition is right. It is going to give a clear responsibility and clear expectations, and I assume that the police director, through his leadership, ensures that Norwegian police live up to what is expected here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1478	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1481	Good management is the result of demanding work, and it will end up in a common sense of reality where everyone says what it is – and calls a spade for a spade. It will then be possible to exercise leadership in a simple way. When this is not there, you get complications. Spending so much money on POD without a focus on management is not the right way to go. And this is going to continue with the new computer systems that cause problems. The centre party has described what is our alternative: the county model and the strengthening of the offices – strengthening the seat of a man. Governments say there's more police force where people live. That's not true. For a number of people, it's getting worse police power where you live, that's the truth. In Trøndelag, the criterion will be 90 pst. within 45 minutes, 45 000 people experience a worse situation. It's got to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1488	The debate is probably approaching the end, and I am not going to take on the role of summarizing in any way. I would say that the debate has been good even though the disagreement on certain points is very clear. The near-police reform will bring more close police, there is no doubt about it. The situation today is that we don't have the proximity between police and residents that we all want. So if the starting point is to keep it the way it is today, we're going to get the opposite. Then we get a remote police force, closed cannon offices much of the day and weak staff in the districts. Now we are shifting the competence and capacity of the police from the largest police districts to fewer police districts, which are now more able to establish the professional environments necessary. We also take into account what was an important point of learning from the previous police reform in 2000, which came into force from 2002. The evaluation of that reform was that many things worked. What did not work and that did not take out the full potential of the reform – as it says in the evaluation – was precisely that you did not want to, did not dare, and at least did not do anything about the organisation of the police external office. We dare, we will, and now we do so with clear political leadership in the process and in the handling of complaints. At the same time, we give greater room for action to those who know best, and I don't doubt for a second, the local involvement, the police. Based on the content of the service, they – solid professionals in the field – can make recordings and gain more authority to organise such an important part of their service. It gives substance to the reform of the police. I'm proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1497	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1511	In many ways, you could say that Prop. 64 L for 2014–2015 is a clean-up after all that had to be done before the introduction of the new penal code, which takes place on 1 October this year. I want to give tribute to the Council of State first because it is now taking the initiative and making sure that the decision we made in the United Kingdom in 2005 is implemented and implemented. Making decisions of such a fundamental nature as the revision of the penal code was, and leaving it lying down, is in a way to ignore the Storting in an unacceptable way. Today's government is doing something about it, they're raising the focus and making sure that this comes into place. Let me go, since Prop. 64 L has many good wordings, including those of the representatives present, on a small quote from the proposition. It says somewhere: ‘The Ministry has, after the hearing, become aware of an additional incursion in the paragraph references in the Penal Code 2005 § 196. In the light of sub-institutional investigation VII of the Penal Court, point 9.7.2, page 305 et seq., Ot.prp. [[NUE 2002: 4 New Penitentiary]] [[2007-2008]] No 8 point 10.14 on page 260, point 12.2.5 on page 348 and the draft law on § 196 and Ot. pp.. [[2008-2009]] No 22 paragraph 16.1, page 399 and the legislative proposal for § 196 seem to be clear that there is an incurrency in the first and second subparagraphs of § 196. First, the penal code 2005 § 314 appears to have fallen out of the list in point (a) of the first paragraph of Section 196. Secondly, the Penal Code 2005 § 313 appears to have to be removed from the list in the second paragraph of Section 196. The Ministry now proposes to correct this. The corrections will ensure that the applicable law at this point is continued in line with what was intended when the Penal Code 2005 § 196 was established.’ It can't be said more easily. Let me also mention a few other things that I thought were exciting. First of all, I'm glad that the Department of Justice has people doing this job. The size could possibly have done that. If it had been just as good, I'll leave it unsaid. It is also the case that the Committee has commented on a number of points. I'll mention two of them. One of those things is double criminality. If I don't remember correctly, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs pointed out that in some cases the requirement for double criminality will actually lead to the opposite of what we want. It has looked at and joined the proposed amendments by the Stortinget and the Judicial Committee. The second is in connection with the treatment of the criminal law in 2005. There was a change in the case of serious illegal armed forces in a public place. The penalty scheme was reduced from four to three years at the time. This was not due to a desire for a lower sentence, but to a change in the number of penalties. The Committee points out here that there is no need for lower penalties. You've also pointed out a lot of other things. The reason for this – at least from the rapporteur’s side – was that much of what happened in 2005 and after that was referred to in the response from the department, and it is written that the legislator had no idea. The ministry commented on its own views and showed itself and its own assessments. The Storting has done something about it. There have been several of the references that were there, and given the Storting's view of them. With that, I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1533	Let me first thank the case rapporteur and for the statements made by the rapporteur. I was a little bit in doubt if he actually came to spend 30 minutes if he were to go through all the ingenious formulations in the proposition. However, it shows that a thorough and comprehensive work has been done on the basis of the decision taken today, and it is not natural that there are major political discussions on this, for the purpose is not to change reality, but to get the laws up to date, so that they can now agree to the entry into force of the new Penal Code of October 2015. I would also like to thank the Committee for a good job, with the rapporteur in charge. I also want to mention that this is a big day in many ways, because we are now laying the foundation for the 2005/2009 penal code to come into force from 1 October 2015, and that is far earlier than what was originally planned. It is also part of the story that the original plan was to follow up on the follow-up to the added value programme, which is a robust ICT project, and an ICT programme that has not yet been launched, through quality assurance processes. And we have some experience both in this case in the value added programme and in other large-scale ICT projects in the public domain that are at significant risk. That means that if you were to continue to think that way, you could be at risk of further delaying the entry into force. That is why I am pleased that we took the steps we took, and started work on implementing new criminal laws in the existing ICT systems. I believe that this is also important from a democratic point of view. It's the Stortinge that adopts the laws, and it's the government that's going to bring them into force. In any case, I did not read in my time of state law that it was subject to satisfactory ICT solutions. Now we've solved this. I think it's a good thing and a good day for Stortinget, when we now contribute to facilitating that when the Stortinget meets next time, we have a new penal code in place, and that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1544	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1558	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1565	This week has been good in terms of children and the legal certainty of young people. On Monday, a unanimous increase of the Christian People's Party adopted the proposal for a comprehensive rapprochement plan to combat violence in close relations, and today we are to adopt improved rules relating to child questioning and particularly vulnerable persons in criminal matters. I want to start by thanking the Justice Committee for a good job in this matter, and I am pleased with the changes we are going to adopt. The proposal follows up the report ‘Referral of particularly vulnerable persons in criminal matters’ of the so-called Säverud Committee and Innst. 269 S for 2013–2014, as discussed by the Justice Committee and the Stortinget last spring. There has been a sharp increase in the number of reports related to issues of violence and sexual assault in recent years. But the numbers of darkness are still great. So we have to do more to help more. The State Children’s Hospital annual report for 2014 shows that the average waiting time for childish hearings last year was 50 days, while the waiting time was 43 days for child questioning in matters related to sexual abuse. Some of the proposals we are adopting today could help to reduce waiting time, while others could help to make more notifications. The Christian People's Party has therefore been committed to securing more funds for the children's houses, and we are very pleased that we got an impact on our five-million-dollar proposal. kr more in revised. Some children's houses have experienced an increase of up to 50 pst. compared with the same period last year. That is why we need an even greater increase in the number of children's homes in next year's budget. In order to ensure that hearings can be conducted more quickly, the hearing shall now be conducted by a lawyer and not by a judge. This supports an overall committee and is a follow-up to the decision of the Storting last year. The Committee also welcomes the fact that children between the ages of 12 and 15 no longer need to be released from the obligation of explanation when suspects are related because the child is then relieved of the demanding responsibility for whether or not to testify against, for example. their own parents. The Committee is also pleased that it is now legal for child questioning up to 16 years of age or particularly vulnerable persons to be conducted at the children’s home in matters relating to sexual offences, sexual mutilation, abuse of close relations, killing or body damage. This will strengthen the legal certainty of children. At the same time, the Labour Party is also promoting proposals in the Chamber today that hearings should take up to 18 years, and I expect the Labour Party to justify this for itself. The majority of the Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and the Centre argue that children over the age of 16 who have been sexually assaulted by relatives are now to be brought to the children's home and that in the other cases for children between the age of 16 and 18 the hearing situation needs to be adapted to the individual and that an assessment should be made within two years of an age limit should in any case be raised to 18 years. So the majority make it mandatory for children under 16, and some cases up to 18, despite the Säverud Committee recommending 15 years of age. We also decide today that, as a general rule, interrogation should be possible before suspected or intentional hearings are notified of the hearing. This may reduce the risk of children and particularly vulnerable persons being subjected to further abuses or of the perpetrator being able to influence the victim in such a way that it does not dare to witness. In order to ensure cross-referencing for sighted persons, the suspect shall be given the opportunity to request additional questioning of the witness, where questions may be asked. The Government has proposed to introduce differentiated statutory deadlines for the conduct of hearings. In the most serious cases, the deadline shall be one week, with a deadline of two and three weeks for the remainder, taking into account the gravity of the case, against a deadline of two weeks for sexual assault today. The change is important to ensure the quickest help for those who need it the most. Here the Workers' Party has a proposal for a equal deadline for everyone in a week, and I expect them here also to justify this for themselves. At the same time, I must stress that the introduction of statutory deadlines does not in itself ensure compliance with the deadline. We know that the 14-day period for sexual assault, which is currently in force, is exceeded over a low shoe. It is therefore essential that the police actually give priority to these matters. The best interests of the child shall be the decisive importance of the assessment of the time for questioning and not the lack of resources. I am pleased with the changes we are adopting today, because they will help to secure children and especially vulnerable people who are exposed to or witness violence and abuse, better help and follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1591	This is an important proposition with changes that we've been waiting for. We are pleased that a change in the rule of law is in line with the decision of the Judicial Committee last year, when we consider a proposal from the Labour Party to strengthen children's homes and make their use mandatory. This change is very positive, and a joint committee believes that these are important measures for, among other things. reduce the waiting time. The government suggests that the age limit for the use of children’s homes remains 16 years, but that the age limit for an insult that has been subjected to sexual abuse by persons in a close relationship should be extended to 18 years. The Labour Party believes that children are children until they are 18 years old, and that the age limit should be 18 in these cases. We are also some in that it is wise to distinguish between sexual assaults and violence, as expressed by Barneombodet, Redd Barna and the State Children's House to the Committee during the hearing in the case. Elections are also very harmful to the mental and physical health of children and young people, and we believe that young people over the age of 16 have an equal need for treatment and help from a highly skilled professional community in this area. We should remember that children's houses are corks or are to be a clean deed factory, but a place with the right competence for children and young people to be subjected to violence and sexual abuse. We are therefore making a loose proposal here today, on changes to Section 239 of the Criminal Procedures Act, so that children under the age of 18 can be served out of their homes. For the sake of order: We do not propose changes to §298, which the plural refers to in the matter and expresses scepticism. The working party is also opposed to introducing differentiated statutory deadlines for taking a stand. Hearing input from both the Barneombodet and UNICEF suggests that one should have a time limit for all, a time limit for one week. We would also like to stress that in some cases it will be difficult to know before a demise is taken, whether the case is acute or not. One cannot rule out that there may be information in the right-hand corner that could change the severity of the case. We would also point out that, in order to implement a differentiated deadline practice, additional bureaucracy is needed. The Labour Party therefore makes a proposal that is on the agenda today, on the amendments to Section 239(e). Although we believe that the deadline should be one week, it is also important to stress that we support the proposals for exemptions contained in Section 239(e). That means that even with a general rule on a week, there is the possibility of postponing this where it is best for the child and research. We're going to be ambitious on behalf of the kids we're talking about here. We shall not be patient on their behalf, but in order to achieve a measure of a week's time limit and that children under the age of 18 should be removed from children's homes, that means that one must build up capacity. Because of this, the Labour Party believes that one has to increase the permissions of the children's houses, and I'm once again pointing out that we suggested that we pay 100 million. kr for the current year. We also believe – in the light of the police reform, which we debated here in the Chamber in place – that a new children's home should be set up in police districts east and consider setting up one in the police district of Finnmark. We have to think in the long term. Police work better with power in close relations than before, as the representative Margunn Ebbesen said in a very good way in the debate on the police reform in place. Several issues are reported; the threshold for reporting is lower among those added to schools and kindergartens and among neighbours, although we still have a long way to go. This leads to an increase in the number of cases in children's houses, which we all know very well. There's little to suggest that this will change in a long-term perspective. I'm concerned that differentiated deadlines will allow many kids to have longer waiting time than today, and that many people who actually have an acute and serious case may get it after being placed in the wrong queue. We don't think we should take the chance on this. I would like to address the proposals to the Labour Party. In addition to those in the configuration, I also mention the proposal that was distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1617	The representative, Mrs. Lene Vågslid, then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1620	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for putting us through this matter very well and for his commitment to such matters. The right is very pleased that the government has now delivered this important proposition on changing the criminal law. The proposal follows on from the report ‘Referral of particularly vulnerable persons in criminal matters’, in which the Code of Conduct on Judicial Hearing and Observation of Children and Psychiatric Depressed Persons was reviewed. This report was important to be implemented, precisely on the basis of experience gained after a few years of operation of children’s homes and now had the opportunity to gain operational experience and to propose improvements through such an evaluation. The Judicial Committee has also examined, through our period, proposals for representatives that have addressed parts of the content of this proposition, and the Right is very pleased with these changes that are now being promoted. The right is also pleased that, through the proposition, the government shows what we know, namely that they are concerned with ensuring our most vulnerable – those who are victims of abuse and violence – in the best possible way. Children’s homes were established in 2007, and we now have ten children’s homes around Norway to conduct and facilitate the interrogation and follow-up of children and adults with mental retardation or similar disability who have been subjected to violence and abuse or witnessed violence. When the Right-Fremskritspart government took over the government offices, the average waiting time for Questionnaires was 54 days. We all agree that there is too much time when the deadline is 14 days. This means that for many vulnerable people the waiting time was disproportionately long. Following pressure from the Minister of Justice, the police director has also provided a clear guidance signal that these matters should be prioritised, and in December 2014, the average waiting time was down to 32 days – still too long – and it is therefore important that this proposition be addressed now, in order to ensure changed procedures that can help reduce waiting time, so that we come within the new legal deadlines. The right is concerned with all the good measures that can help to help our most vulnerable. We are therefore very pleased with the proposal to remove the judge from the hearing and replace it with a lawyer. When the judge is out of the hearing, it will also be easier for the police to put up the work of questioning, and the right has a expectation that legal time limits for questioning can thus be more easily achieved. In particular, this change will also release judicial resources for other important tasks. The Court of Justice also supports the proposed amendment. The right is also pleased that the government clearly shows that they want to lower the threshold in order to report to the police and reduce the risk of child abuse and particularly vulnerable individuals. The proposal in the proposal opens up the opening of the first hearing, as a general rule, before the suspected intention or notification of the hearing. Due to the risk of evidence of abduction, and not least the possibility of an influence on the child, the government considers that it is unfortunate that the intention is made aware of the matter prior to the first questioning. The defendant and his rights are respected if it turns out that the police are proceeding with the matter. Finally, I would like to add a few words to the proposal to keep the age limit of 16, but extend it to 18 for those who are sexually assaulted by relatives. We have seen that there has been a huge increase in the number of reports of violence and abuse against children after the children's homes were established, and that is very good. At the same time, we see a challenge both in meeting the deadlines and in being able to provide the most vulnerable to follow-up and help they deserve and are entitled to. The right is therefore concerned that raising the age limit to 18 for all cases could be at the expense of those who need the most organised hearings. The right has a expectation that these proposed changes to the Criminal Procedures Act will contribute to reaching the new statutory deadlines, but of course supports the proposal here that, within two years – after assessing the impact of these changes – the government will review raising the age limit to 18 in all cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1639	It is gratifying that the government, with good support, once again provides for the strengthening of victim care – now through a reform of children’s homes and interrogations. This reform will ensure that waiting time drops to a safe level and will be very important in the fight against violence and abuse committed against children. The government has already improved the situation in children's homes, even though we are not yet on target. The average waiting time for questioning in children’s homes after sexual assault was 43 days in 2014. In the first four months of this year, this waiting time has decreased to 36 days. This is still not good enough, but it is positive that the government's clear priorities of victim care have made sure that the waiting time now goes right. The average waiting time for all childish hearings was 51 days in 2013 and thus far above the 14-day deadline. Although the Right-Fremskrit party government has undoubtedly made a completely necessary priority of the children's houses, with good support from our cooperation parties, and we have had a considerable downturn in waiting time, it is important to stress that this is a high priority field for the Progress Party. I am pleased that, in this matter, we are many – almost a total increase – who are impatient, and that the government is now proposing this amendment of the law, which we are dealing with today, which will ensure that waiting time at the children's homes can come down to the right level much faster. The government is now taking a number of steps to ensure that vulnerable children receive more rapid assistance. Firstly, it is now being ensured that the deadline for questioning the most vulnerable children is reduced to half of today’s requirements for two weeks. The most vulnerable children shall be given the right to questioning in the course of a week. This will be important in order to prevent further abuse of the emergency procedures. A differentiation of the deadlines of one to three weeks instead of a flat deadline of two weeks, which today, will ensure that the most serious issues could be prioritised more quickly than today. This will be particularly important, for example, in cases of sexual abuse in close relationships, where it is extremely important that the authorities can intervene at the earliest possible time. For children in vulnerable dependency situations, it is often essential that the suspected attacker is not informed that he or she is targeted, until the police have provided sufficient evidence to provide the necessary assistance to protect the child. The legislative proposal therefore contains an important reform, which ensures that targeted persons do not need to be informed until after the child has conducted interrogations and evidence is secured. This is a clear and important priority for children's rights in this type of case and a change The Progress Party has worked for too long. For the Advance Party, it has been important to protect the children from represals from an attacker and to ensure that evidence can be obtained through questioning without the intention being made aware of this immediately. At the same time, it is important to ensure legal certainty for targeted persons. He/she is given the opportunity to recommend a supplementary questioning of the child in retrospect so that legal certainty can be ensured. Research shows that children do little harm to such secondary interrogations, and it will be far more important to prevent child represals in the initial phase of the investigation. Interviews at children’s homes have often been delayed through formalities in the past. This is clearing up the government. Firstly, it will no longer be necessary to have a judge present in the hearings. The judge has himself stated that they are superfluous in the hearing situation, and has asked questions about their role in these situations. When such a formality, which is perceived as superfluous by the actors themselves, leads to a delay in the hearings, a reform is necessary, and I am pleased that it is in place. In addition, demands will now be made for all actors to appear at the time of the police’s decision, which will contribute to a further decline in treatment time. Guards will be set up similar to those we have in custody cases, which is surprising to me that the former government did not take the initiative itself. It is regrettable that unnecessary formalities and the low use of well-tested experience from other aspects of the legal system have not been taken into account in relation to the legal certainty of children. Fortunately, these problems are now being cleared up and legal certainty for children is being strengthened. I am pleased that the government also provides for a strengthening of the victims' rights in this case. I am pleased that a total accumulation is concerned about these matters and so clearly has spent time and focused on these matters, and I think we are many who will work hard in the future to strengthen this area further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1662	The number of things selected for children has increased dramatically in recent years. It's a very different note about the theme today than just a few years ago, and that's very good. But attention is not enough. One must follow up by adapting the law and not least by consulting resources. We have to wait for the children to come down. We need to ensure that the load on children in the uphill situation is kept as low as possible, and we also need to ensure that the legal certainty of all those involved is safeguarded. Discovering cases where children are exposed to election requires a good interaction between different public authorities and private individuals reporting suspicious observations. Knowledge, restraints and capacity are three key chords. Children’s homes have been a very important measure, both of improving the quality of the work being done, and not least reducing the burden on children by explaining themselves. Subsequent follow-up is also central. It turns out that the capacity has been blasted in many of these places. It testifies that we need to continuously assess the capacity of these devices and assess whether one should create more, including more. in order to reduce the travel distance of those involved, but at the same time this shall not affect the quality. The Central Party supports the conversion from what we call the verdicts today, for the police to take over the responsibility. There are always many actors to be involved, and it is important that courts do not become a delimiting factor in the hearing. We are now avoiding this by leaving responsibility to the police. We believe that this is fully justified without compromising the legal certainty of those involved. But we have to remember that the capacity of the Public Prosecutor's Office is limited, and here there needs to be a strengthening. The centre party sees that it may be an appropriate measure to introduce a number of different deadlines, by type of case and by degree of seriousness. The centre party sees it as very positive that a person is given shorter deadlines than today for some types of cases. One should bear in mind that it is not always such that when the police have received a report, one can proceed the next day. Often examinations shall be carried out, and tracks shall be secured in order to ensure that the right of the child can be carried out as well as possible, so that a new follow-up extract is released. I would like to stress that most of the judges should be able to be executed during a week, but need a more time of legal certainty, of course, they need to be given weight. The proposal takes on board that one should give priority to the serious issues first. With Storting's decision today, we're taking a step in the right direction, but to do good research is one of the resources that we're making through annual promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1677	It is a good and important matter that we are dealing with now, and there are many who have already said a lot about the significance this will have for children and young people who are subjected to violence and sexual abuse. When we look at the matter that there is a waiting time of 51 days after a case has been reported and until a court hearing is taken, it goes without saying that this is a situation that is not desirable and that we cannot live with. And when in one district, which was picked out here, it turns out that there's a waiting time of 106 days, it's clear that there's a considerable burden on the kids that this is about. So many have raised and said positive things about taking the judge out of these hearings, going from a court hearing to an organised hearing. The left is also going to go in for it today. However, I would also like to add some critical comments to it, because it is not entirely unproblematic. I have also registered that the court administration wants it, both because it is quite time-consuming for them to carry out these hearings, and because they feel that they have such a retracted role that it does not make the big difference anyway. The law firm, on the other hand, has been more sceptical. And what we're doing now is taking a neutral party out of the interrogations, a party that may not contribute in every case, but that has nevertheless had an important function in view of the hearing that is to happen. In the case, it is proposed to ensure that the objection to suspects or accused persons is guaranteed by the fact that a new interview should be held in retrospect. Then there's a couple of things that are pretty important. Firstly, it is important that suspects or defendants are also asked the questions that they want to ask in that hearing. And then it's important that it becomes a reality with that questioning, that we don't ask ourselves in a situation where the first questioning comes quickly, while the second questioning – when sighted or suspected is going to have its chance to ask questions – goes out in time, because for practical reasons you can't get it early. There is a need to ensure legal certainty, as the aim is to do, and then you have to have the opportunity to ask those questions before the major damage has already happened. This is an area that is incredibly difficult, and we know that here. We know how difficult it is to get someone sued and get some convictions, but we also know that this is an area where there is a murder of the judiciary, because these are difficult things to investigate, there are difficult things to prove. But it also makes it extra important to think about the legal certainty of the intention or suspect. The left is going to go for this today, but I think it is important that one also mentions the slightly more critical aspects of this proposal. Not least, I think it's important that we focus on it when these rules have worked for a while. When we've had these rules for one or two years, we have to see if they've worked as we wanted – is it that suspects or defendants have good legal certainty, even though we've now had a court hearing for an orderly hearing? I hope so and expect the Ministry of Justice to focus on this, and if it turns out that legal certainty is not respected, we will get back to it on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1692	As many have said, this is a very important matter. We are making great progress in this, especially when it is almost impossible to think about how long it is in very many of the districts now. It is in a way a living example that we have given priority to serious crime against children too low. The more important it is that, hopefully, we can make significant progress on some of the changes proposed here, a proposal that SV will support and that will be very positive in sum. I would like to join the representative Nybø’s comments – or comments, I would like to call it – about the issue of referees. We think it's right to do this now, but we also think it's right in the years to come, to notice that this doesn't just have to be positive, and that the function that judges have had there can be important. So I also want to ask that we have an eye on it in the years that come, when we now make a change there. On the SV side, we will also vote for all three proposals that have been put forward, in addition to the Committee's position, and briefly on them: We think it seems too weak a reason that one should have something other than the 18-year mandatory limit for the different types of crime that this is about. Sexual abuse against children is very serious, but it is also effective against children. It is for all children under 18 years of age, regardless of their age. I notice that several of the hearing aids go against that distinction. As I understand it, it will nevertheless be agreed by the Committee. Then it becomes extremely important that it is closely followed up, and that a new assessment of it is made as quickly as possible — during the few years it is about. Then we will also support the proposal for a week's deadline. In many cases, two weeks will be long, and when we now remove some of the obstacles that make it take too long, when more resources are deployed, as it has been gradually done in the last few years, then there should be a time limit that can be achieved in a short time. It is important that we have here temptations that put pressure on these matters to take priority around the budgets. We're also going to support the latest proposal on children's homes. An absolutely necessary part of this is to continue the development of children's homes, so that there is capacity, that there is human beings and the environment with competence to care for children's rights in the type of serious crime that is at stake.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1713	I am very pleased that there is a broad consensus in the Storting on this, and I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Committee for a good cooperation and excellent piece of work. This is an area where very many representatives in this room have shown a tremendous effort and a very strong impatience. I think that's very good. The background to this bill is, among other things: the so-called Säverud Committee, which had its recommendation out at the hearing and was given a very hard ride. This has led to the fact that you have had to do quite a lot of work following this in the department. So now we're getting there that we're landing on something that goes beyond what the Säverud committee's recommendation really was. That is why I am very pleased that there is so much excitement about the grips that are now being done, while also I think it is important to focus on what the representative Nybø was about in his post: what the consequences of these changes will be. There have been thorough human rights assessments, and we have spent a lot of time and resources on this. As we go further in protecting children and particularly vulnerable adults than the working group found out it was access to, we do it within what we think is a safe framework, and I'm glad that the Stortinge supports it. I just want to mention also, when the discussion is about the deadline, that this amendment will lead to much more children having to be questioned in children's homes. Today, the legal deadline is linked to sexual abuse. Now there will be a significantly larger group of crime, which will challenge the capacity of children’s homes. It is important to focus on the future to ensure that one does not get into a situation where waiting time continues to increase further. So it's also necessary for me to say that when we talk about different temptations in first of all one, two and three weeks, it's because this should apply not only to those who are victims of this crime, but also to witnesses, and perhaps partly to peripheral witnesses. I think there's a pretty big difference between people who are exposed to violence and sexual assault, and children who have witnessed it, perhaps on one occasion. That's why I think it's natural that a person should have different deadlines, to ensure that the most serious cases have the highest priority, and that we can deliver with that in mind. So we've been told earlier in Stortinget that there's now a positive development in that there's more people reporting sexual abuse and violence against children, and that the use of children's homes is increasing a lot. A year ago we started a lot of work to reduce waiting time at the children’s homes. It gave good results over time, but the growth that has now been in the number of cases, makes the waiting time rise again. I follow it up very closely with the police director in my monthly meetings with him and am concerned that we should manage to ensure improvements, especially for those police districts that do not deliver well enough, because there is a huge difference between the police districts in this area. There's no reason for it to be. So we follow it closely, while we now believe that this new interrogation system will release resources, and it will make it easier for the parties to meet when it is now required that the called parties have to meet when the police have called them. There will also be resource-saving, more efficient and much better provision for the legal certainty of children — and the legal certainty of the person to whom it is addressed — and there will be a much faster handling of these issues. Then I am absolutely sure that the Storting will continue to follow this very closely, and from the government we will of course also focus on how the capacity of the children's houses is now being exploited. An increasing number of children’s homes report very high levels of activity, and it is important to follow up the fact that police officers also provide the resources needed by children’s homes to implement the new interrogation model.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1728	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1731	As we are talking about in the debate on Monday, the proportion of cases in children's homes is increasing. With today's changes to the Criminal Procedures Act, more children will be removed from children's homes. That's very good. In addition to extra promises and earmarks, the Labour Party believes that one should establish a new children's house in police districts east and assess one in Finnmark. Does the Minister of Justice agree that a new children's home should be established in police districts east? Don't you know: What kind of a children's house does the Minister of Justice think the children in the new police district should use East?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1736	I think it is a quite natural assessment that we have to make in the context of current budgetary processes, both with regard to the establishment of new children's homes and with regard to the capacity of existing children's homes. This must be done in the light of the new district structure, but not least based on the fact that the number of children to be interrogated will naturally increase – because the group covered is larger and because the threshold will now be even lower in order to report. It's a desired development. It is essential that children’s homes are provided with a resource that enables them to do the task they are going to do. I think it is important to consider both new children's homes and other tools to enable the children's homes to do this important job.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1743	The next line comes from the representative of Kjell Ropstad – I'm sorry, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1746	Ingolf actually has a name day today, so it's important to bring that piece too! I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. With regard to the recordings we have received about capacity, there is mainly more money for the existing children's houses that have been prioritised, but I agree with the representative Awake! that there is at least something you need to consider in the follow-up. My question is on the future budgets. I know that the Council of State cannot answer that, so I will try to ask the question smart enough, so it is possible to get an answer. If one compares the 1st tertiary this year to the 1st tertiary last year, the increase is 40 pst. So we know that the law changes we're making now will contribute to even more questioning and probably even more reviews will come. What kind of signals have the councils received from the children's or police districts about investment needs when thinking about capacity, and what consequences will it have on demands for the number of annual works, etc.? I am not asking for an answer with a number of millions of kroner that the Council of State wants to give, but something about the need in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1757	Let me first congratulate the case rapporteur on the name day! There has been a change in the feedback from the children’s homes based on the fact that there are now significantly more people being questioned. Capacity is significantly more challenging now than it has been in the past. At the same time, there are large differences between children’s homes and children’s homes in the number of interrogations taken in the various children’s homes. But when we get signals that the resources are starting to get pushed, there are signals we have to take with us. However, I would like to make it clear that today's form of funding is important that each police officer prioritizes the resources to which he is going, so that he does not come back in these kinds of situations. Now we've really had a hard time over time that's given results, both by the fact that several things are being treated, and by the fact that there's probably also a contribution to more things going on. In this way, we must now see how this develops, and take into account changes in the future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1764	Thanks for the answer. Because of the fact that there will be more questions, the investigation is also an important part. The Committee said a little about that, and we also discussed it a little bit in the context of the police reform, where we were clear that we wanted to build up the environments of competence. But my concern has been that one in the important pressure from both the Council of State and the Stortinget to get the interrogations avoided quickly, has not succeeded in the investigation. So the question is whether the Council of State has an overview of how many of the cases that end up with judgment or at least with further investigation. Can he say anything about the overview of that picture, not just about the number of issues that end in questioning, but also about the follow-up to the issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1771	In the case of persons coming to the hearing, it is not always the case that it will end up in judgment. It happens that there are reviews that there is no basis for going further. I do not have an overview of recent months of developments in terms of the increase in the number of cases, and how many go on to both the appeal decision and the subsequent judgment. That's an overview we'll get later. At the same time, I think it's important when that overview comes, that we want to see if there's a context, that is, whether the research quality is actually being reduced. That's what I understand that the questioner is out to find out about. There's no indication of what I'm familiar with today. And the reason why I don't think it's a big challenge is that the reason why we're now getting more questions is that you've put in more resources. One has moved on to people to get them with the relevant interrogation skills to conduct interrogations, and there has been a proper resource task to bring the waiting time down. It was successful until now, when the amount of the case gets much bigger again. I have no reason to believe that the quality of the investigation has declined as a result of it, but we must follow that closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1776	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1781	I said in my main post that the Labour Party is concerned about the differentiated deadlines. Unfortunately, I was much more concerned after hearing the article to the Council of State. It is not such that a distinction between children who are exposed to power and children who are witnesses to power. The Supreme Court has held that it is uniform. So at least it would be a clear message from the Workers' Party that when one – despite our opinion – is to differentiate these deadlines, there should be no distinction between children who are offended and children who are witnesses to power. In the big news about elected in close relationships, which the previous government got to the Storting, this was clearly fixed. The Justice Committee has written it in its comments on a number of issues. So I hope most of all that there was a delay from the Council of State. And he'd like to answer that, because it's immeasurably important that one doesn't distinguish between it. Children who are witnesses to power are also exposed to power. When it comes to children's houses, I'm very happy that we're beginning to be very specific about the need to increase and strengthen the promises. We haven't had an equal number of them in the past, but now I see a very positive view of the budget procedure for 2016. There I expect to see suggestions from the government about extra rights for children's homes, and I also hope that they will listen to the Workers' Party to earmark the funds. Ulf Leirstein said in his post that one has spent a little time on this matter, and it has one. And I'm not going to spend a lot of time saying that this is what we should have done last year, because we're doing it now -- when it comes to changing the jurisdictional order -- and that's very good, but when it comes to increasing the rights of children's houses, it should have been done last year. And I'm sorry, I'm not happy that one comes with five million. kr in the revised national budget. That won't help enough. One should have initially had 100 million. kr in the budget for the current year. So I look forward to the budget for 2016. Now we, all the parties, are very certain that this is important. Let us see that in the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1793	With regard to today’s deadlines, the time limit for children who are subject to sexual assault is that the hearing is to be conducted within two weeks. In the historical context, we see that very little has happened. There has been a problem over many years, and it is unfortunately still a challenge. Now, when we differentiate this, it's because you have to make sure that one prioritizes the most serious and the most important issues first. However, all shall normally be questioned within 14 days. When I say that there is a difference between the different issues, I actually believe that there is a difference between being beaten and having seen someone get beaten once. There must be a difference between the two things as to whether there should be a one-week deadline or a two-week deadline. Everyone agrees that this is so serious that it should happen quickly. In the past, there has not been such a time limit for that type of infringement at all. Now there will be such a deadline, and I think it is important that we give priority to the issues that are most important. Ideally, all should be interrogated within one week, provided that it is sound for the purpose of investigation. But one must, in my opinion, also allow himself to say that it is all, most importantly, that those who are subjected to violence and sexual assault, come quickly into question when it is proper for the purpose of the investigation and the best for the child. The fact that we do not then have a two-stage rocket, but two different deadlines for different types of cases, is, in any case, a significant improvement – I would stress it, a significant improvement – in relation to the current situation, but I have a great understanding of the Workers' Party's and SV's desire to press the deadline further down. However, I am a little in doubt as to whether it will be practicable to achieve when we see what kind of situation we are in. So resources shouldn't be an excuse when we talk about violence and abuse against children, but I think this will be a system that guarantees both children's rights better than today and ensures that they come faster – in any case – to question children's homes. As I mentioned in the line change, the government will of course also have an eye on the resource development of the children's homes. If the evolution we're now seeing in the number of issues continues, it's necessary to look at it more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1804	I really just took the word to back up what the Council of State says, because I understand both the interpretation and the understanding of the new legislation – and as I think it should be – is the same, namely that there is a difference between being subjected to violence or having witnessed it. It is serious both, but in the new rules it will be a deadline of one week in the most serious cases. It will also be a one-week period if you have witnessed it — if, for example, there is something to say for the protection of other witnesses or even the offended one. I think such a grading is appropriate precisely because today we are far too far away from reaching the deadlines. Then it's important that we, as politicians, too, dare to give priority and say that there are some things that are more important, some things that need to be taken faster, while others can wait a little longer. If we do 14 days, it's fantastic and a great progress compared to today. So we can say that the deadline today is only 14 days in the case of sexual assault. So everything will be an improvement compared to today. We can't even reach that limit today. That is why I believe that the priority we are doing will help the police and those who have been hit by the most serious cases. And then we have a political responsibility to follow up, to continue the pressure, to conduct more interrogations, to carry them out faster and to ensure that there is good quality in the investigation, so that we get to judge those who are to be judged.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1811	The representative, Lene Vågslid, has had the word twice in the past and is given the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1814	I notice that we've actually got a new definition of what we think is chosen against children. I take note of that. We haven't done that yet. Whether you're listening to the children's room, and if you're listening to the police officer in Tromsø, who we've met many times, research shows that there's fear and fear that children are taking all, most of the harm. We're not going into a polemic on it, if anyone's been put to the election, or if someone's ever been beaten once. My point was that we should not distinguish between children who are witnesses to power, and children who have been subjected to power, if one takes over the research done in this field. I just want to express it very strongly, that if there's a new definition from the government party and the Christian People's Party, then I think it's very bad. A person should be able to defend differentiated deadlines, but should not do so. In any case, this is contrary to the research we have in this area when it concerns children who are exposed to power, and it also applies to those who have our witnesses, for example. to parents have turned each other on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1823	What lies in the differentiation is that one looks at the severity of the various issues. We've been open all along. It's in the proposition, and it's also been the subject of the conversations we've had. It's not my intention to go away from research or anything else, but I'm very clear that if we're going to succeed in helping those who need it the most, one must also dry to take that priority. It may well be that the representative Awake! and I disagree with that, but I believe that the consequence of the policy of the representative Awake! would be that one is unable to help those who need it the most – because there will be so many things that need to be brought in, that one will not succeed in it. That is why I will maintain and stand for what we are for. I think that would definitely be the best, because now we want a clear prioritization of those who need it the most. So that doesn't mean that the other cases won't be prioritised, because, as the council clearly said, it will be two weeks or in some cases three weeks, and it's with respect to reporting a clear progress compared to today. If we do that, it will be an enormous strengthening of children's legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1830	I would like to express my support for the contribution of the representative of Wagslid. It is, of course, a big step forward when you get shorter deadlines for everyone, but if you're going to make those kinds of adjustments, it's absolutely necessary to have professional and good insights to be able to do them. People, and then children as well, are very unlikely vulnerable to this difficult topic, and I have also experienced in other cases that you do not consider violence to be serious until it has happened very many times. It is completely wrong professionally. It can be quite devastating if it's happened once. So that there should be a repeating pattern, and that there should be a basis for what is considered serious or not, SV disagrees completely with. Even if one distinguishes between being a witness to violence and being subjected to violence, research shows that being a witness to violence can be absolutely equally harmful to children. We must build on the professional assessments here and not have a schematic idea of these deadlines.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1837	This debate, about what has been professionally assessed violence, or about another type of definition that is now on the table, concerns as far as I understand – and it may not have been meant that way, but at least I understood it in the representative of the Christian People's Party – about budgetary resources. He said something like that could mean that there is someone who does not get the help they need because there is no capacity for it. Then I have to show that this is exactly what our proposal is, and that Lene Waogslid was involved in his speech, that it is a pity that no more money has been allocated in the past, and that there is a need for a greater strengthening of the measures in this area. So here I think we see a political dividing line, where one tries to redefine the concept of violence in order to avoid giving enough money so that all children who are subject to violence get the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1846	First, if one is a witness to violence or sexual assault and it can be crucial for the second witness or insult that one witness quickly, the requirement is one week. That's the deal. In any case, it will also be the case that the police have to make assessments with children's homes in each case, and then it can be within one week. That is why I believe that what is adopted here is a clear improvement. To the last post I will respectfully report the reference to the waiting time under the red-green government. We've had a dramatic decline lately. And then we can agree that everyone has had a common drag, but just standing here and saying that the Workers' Party says one week, and had the Workers' Party adopted one week, it had become one week, is totally unrealistic. That's not how it would be. As I experience it, if I were to interpret the Workers' Party's proposal, a wish that one had sent out a message that the police also had to do different priorities because one believes that there are some things that are more urgent. I would at least assume that this is the case, but that you have a goal of reaching one week. What we're doing is taking the political priority here – pointing to some of the issues that are extra serious, and prioritizing them. It does not mean that it is not serious to witness violence, but it means that it is more serious to be subjected to sexual assault than to be a witness to it. Yes, it is, and I mean it. So it is said that there is no research these criteria are based on. Yes, it is. It's a NOU, it's cooperation with the Police College, I know that the National Attorney has been in, I know that the court organizations have been in, etc. That work has been broad and professional, and I'm sure the Council of State can also say more about it. So I'm 100 pst. I believe that the discussion from the Labour Party on budgets is really a derailment because one is discussing things that are unrealistic. My goal is to come down for a week. But I remember well I had questions about matters that lasted more than 200 days – average time that was far above what is today, which unfortunately is also too high. Now we make clear priorities, and we're going to do what we can to increase the budgets. There has also been a clear increase in the budgets, and we are going to continue that fight. So I'm sorry, I feel this a little bit like a derailment of a debate that was very good, with a great deal of consensus. And then I don't see the huge difference in the proposal that the majority is going to adopt today, and what the Labour Party really wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1861	I will first be allowed to support what the rapporteur says, and the understanding he has of this. This is not a disagreement on the professional basis. I think everyone agrees on the importance of this – how important it is to prioritize the fact that witnessing violence is to be equated with being subjected to violence – with regard to the Supreme Court judgment taken by the representative of Wagzlid. That's not the discussion we want to raise, and that's not the point of this. This is about a priority in particular professional resources. I believe that there is a basis for saying that there is a difference between being subjected to sexual assault and being a witness to violence once. Both of these people are going to be interviewed at the same children's home, and if you have to make a priority then I am not in doubt about who you should prioritize before the other person. That doesn't mean that you deprioritize someone, but that means you have to – within the framework that is – figure out what's really important. I'm not going to start any polemization around it, but the case rapporteur is concerned with realism and what we can actually achieve. The Workers' Party's proposal, in addition to the fact that everyone is to be interrogated within one week, is that the age limit for which it is to be mandatory should also be extended from 16 to 18 years. It will further pressure the children's homes very much on resources, but not just on money; we're also talking about professional resources, not just crowns and ears. Then I think it is an important step in this proposition that we have dared to make a priority, and that we are now implementing a system that, in all these cases – I will stress it, in all these cases – is far, far better than what is happening today. This is a long and good step forward for all who are engaged in children’s rights and the fight against violence and sexual abuse against children and young people. I hope that the left impression after this debate is that it is still this house's overall view. Because it's really a big step that's taken today, although there's some nuances in how one wants to deal with temptations and age limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1872	It is good that the representative Ropstad now says that there is no difference with the definition. That's a good starting point. I didn't mean to dwell on what we agree on – because we agree on a lot – but what I feel is a little strange, is just to use this definition to explain that one doesn't rate anymore. I did not stand here and honoured the efforts of the Labour Party, or the efforts of the previous government, but we will continue. Then I believe that setting definition limits that say that there is someone who will get one week's deadline if they are set once – we do not know if they have been beaten once – it is impossible to define in advance. That's part of the basis that we in the Workers' Party now say that we want more money, and we said that last year, that we want it more earmarked. That's why I believe that the economy actually plays a role, and that there's disagreement about exactly this, how to define the weeks. The working party will also have a clear age limit at 18 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1877	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1891	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1898	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation on this important but also demanding matter. That shows the suggestions, which crack from one edge to the other. And I guess we've all taken on a lot of e-mails, telephones and had a lot of meetings when it comes to Santa Claus. The case concerns the proposal of the government for a new law on Santa Claus. The proposal relates to the ability of fasteners to be able to demand the regulation of the fastening charge in connection with the extension of fastenings to residential and recreational homes. The bill is based on the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 12 June 2012, the so-called Lindheim saka, and is based on the award of NOU 2013:11 Festive contracts and international law. There are about 170,000 fixations for which the changes that you adopt today will have consequences. Timeless agreements for which the fastener does not have the right to cancel the agreement do not give the bill consequences. The Committee is divided into three parts in this case – plus that SV has put forward a loose proposal, so we are divided into four. The central party keeps up the original proposal from the government, for a fixed fee of 2.5 pst. The government party, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left, goes down to 2 pst. The working party and SV propose 1.25 pst. The working party believes to propose 2.5 pst. and 2 pst. Fasteners are to go far too far in ‘allocate the fasteners’. We would like to stress that the so-called Lindheim judgment from Strasbourg said that Norway had to find a fair balance in its Santa Claus legislation. We believe that the majority in the committee has not found this balance – nor has the Center Party. Houses and cabins are vitally good for most of us. I think it's important that housing social care weighs heavily, along with the clear need to find a fair balance, which the EMD requires of us. The Labour Party believes that both a party fee of 2.5 pst. and a fixation fee of 2 pst. a good and safe return for the landowners, but it was not a good and safe return EMD asked Norway to find. I found it a pity that no other party – except the SV and the Workers' Party – in the Committee seems to have listened to the leading economic environments in Norway that have evaluated 1 pst. a fixation fee to be sufficient to fulfil Norway’s obligations under EMD. It is a pity that the majority of the committee ignores the economic realities of its founding fathers. The proposal of the majority in the Committee – and the Centre Party – will have great consequences for families throughout the country who have houses or cabins at the party empty. The working party believes that there is an extreme misunderstanding that bonding conditions can be compared to a rental relationship. Santa Claus is much more like a full ownership. A landowner has both investment liability, maintenance liability and insurance liability – and also pays property tax. The Ministry of Justice itself stresses this difference on page 27 of the proposal. They write that a non-resident does not have the same costs associated with the rental business as a rental company, and he does not normally have the same value as a rental company. Therefore, the department also writes that they cannot see that the requirement for a certain profit or return should be the same for a non-resident as for a tenant. I mean this moment in the proposition does not mean that a fixation fee of 2.5 pst should be imposed. or 2 pst. to consider good returns. The Labour Party has been legally assessed by the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice and has been carefully evaluated by the management of the economic environment in Norway, such as Norway's environmental and life sciences universities in Ås, and Deloitte has carried out a broad economic analysis of the level of parties. We believe that our proposal gives a good balance. It is considered professional to be within what EMD requires of us, while at the same time we show that we take into account the 170 000 fixation conditions for which this has consequences. We suggest a low attachment fee, at 1.25 p.m., and a decreasing ceiling for the maximum amount of large plots. This is important in order to avoid the risk of large-scale land fasteners being subject to the new law. Many people have given me feedback that if one does not get such a roof or a lower attachment fee, they will be forced to sell their cabin or their house. But many people are also very concerned that they won't do it, given that the fixation fee is so high. The working party wishes to strengthen the right of redemption. We express in the notes that we are critical of the agricultural derogation. We also write in the notes that the system of land fasts is challenging and conflicty, and that we believe in principle that the system of land fasts should be removed in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1926	Would the representative like to take up the proposal of the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1929	That's what the representative wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1934	The representative of Lene Vågslid has then taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1937	We are amending the law on Santa Claus because we are imposed by the European Court of Human Rights. The proposition that has come from the government is thorough, balanced and worked through, and we in the Right give our support to this one, to say all points. It provides a safe and good return over time for the fasteners, while preventing a very unfair set of rules. We, who are the majority in this hall, have nevertheless wanted to adjust the percentage somewhat from what was originally in the proposition. The new rate we've set to 2 pst. And that will lead to a few fewer plots reaching this maximum stack. This is partly due to housing social considerations, but there are also good economic calculations at the bottom of this, among other things. from one of the consultation recordings, which came from five economists associated with the NHH in Bergen. Furthermore, we want to introduce a so-called 30-year safety valve. At the hearing it was a requirement that initially came from the party side. We want to make it a right that applies to both parties. It's going to ensure a fair balance in the contracts also over time. In the debate there has been a proposal for a so-called degressive ceiling, or a degressive roof, on the main plots. First of all, when you're calculating the plot value today, you take into account the large plots with a lot of uninhabitable land. It has been used as a sort of scare argument in the course of the debate that you can almost only take the number of targets and multiply them with the maxac – and then you get sky-high increases in the rent. It is unfortunate that that claim has been repeated over and over again. We see the consequences of it; many people write to us in fear because they think they get a larger increase than what they like is the reality. Secondly, this proposal, with degressive thanks, is not sufficiently well established, in the opinion of the majority. We can't see that this is mentioned in particular neither in the proposition nor in any other preparatory work, for example. in NOU-en. This seems to be something that has come a little bit in the last turn, and we don't feel comfortable taking this into the law like that over the table. This is particularly important because the problem against the European Convention on Human Rights is that the fasteners of large plots have not been adequately taken into account. This would be a rule that could create new problems, and it would be a huge defeat for Stortinget if we now – in this repair work that we are actually doing now – were to commit new violations of ownership. This is not a time for innovation or experimentation with this law. What we are adopting today must be thorough, well-founded, well-founded, it must be possible in Norwegian courts, in the Supreme Court, and ultimately in Strasbourg, whether it should be there again. So it's also important for me to stress one thing, and that's that this isn't the time to end all sides of the Santa Claus Act. We probably have discussions that could be interesting about agricultural exemptions, about calculation methods, about different redemption rules and a lot of other things. There's a lot that can be discussed, but there's no time and place for it now. This proposition answers to a very specific issue raised after the judgment against us in the EMD. So our task now is to sort out the mistakes that our law has, and deal with them in a concrete way. Having said that, I also want to say – I want to be one of the first to say – that the law of Santa Claus and the law about this is one of the more strange things we have in Norway, that is an example of how wrong it can be when politicians – for the best – are going to go into and try to regulate agreements in order to create a balance they think is right. It often carries the wrong place. I think the history books will show that Santa Claus legislation may not have been the best idea. That being said, it's going to be a discussion for the future. The proposition that is now here is repairing the errors for which we have been convicted, and it should be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1958	As the rapporteur and the previous speaker have pointed out, this change of law has emerged as a result of Norway’s being sentenced in the European Court of Human Rights in the so-called Lindheim case in 2012. In criticising the current rules of § 33, the Court pointed out, inter alia: on the low fastening charge which the rules may lead to the exclusion of the plot value as a relevant regulatory factor and that the increase in land appreciation is exclusively due to the fixation on resale. Therefore, it has been necessary to amend the legislation on land fastenings to achieve what is referred to in the proposition as ‘fair balance’ between anchorages and the rights of awnings. The majority of the cases have found that the ministry has carried out thorough assessments, without doubt. It is a full proposition that argues why the new rules have been arrived at and that they should be able to cope with a new treatment in the Human Rights Court. But the majority, who are the government parties and the cooperation parties, do believe that the proposal is moving a little further towards the fixators in terms of the percentage of upscaling. That's why we've landed at a rate of 2 pst. for the up-dating of existing fasteners. And then we agree that – in order to avoid disproportionately high increases in the fastening charge – there is also a ceiling on the fastening charge per deck of land. This is done in accordance with the Ministry’s proposal, equivalent to NOK 11 378 in 2015-krona. In NOU 2013: 11, an opportunity was proposed to require new regulation after 30 years to avoid unfair fasteners. I registered that the ministry did not follow up this change in the draft new bill, but the majority have nevertheless come to the conclusion that this would be a sensible arrangement to put in place. So this is then to introduce a right to demand new regulation, which should also apply to parties. There is no natural law that suggests that the value of the property market will always continue to rise, even if there is a high likelihood that this will happen in the long term. Providing both parties and fasteners an opportunity to demand new pricing after 30 years will therefore be the most consistent and fair option. There are undoubtedly difficult balances that have been made in this matter from the government and from the Storting to find rules that are durable, both in relation to the 170 000 fastening conditions we have, and to the EMD's demands in the judgment of 2012. However, the Progress Party believes that the majority has reached a good compromise and that we have listened to both the party and the party sides when dealing with the matter. The possibility of a new regulation after 30 years is an important safety valve, while reducing the maximum rate from 2,5 to 2 pst. will result in a fair balance between fasteners and fasteners. Then I am very pleased with what the previous speaker pointed out, the representative Frölich, because based on the enquiries that have come to us in the Justice Committee, we have seen that a lot of people now fear that you should just take the maximum rate and multiply it by dean. Of course, that's not what's at stake. That is clear to the proposition, and we have also clarified that in the comments of the majority in the position of the Judicial Committee. So here, obviously, there's some confusion out there and going. I shouldn't be surprised if there's someone who thinks that confusion is completely okay, to scare people up. This case is here today because of that judgment against Norway. I doubt that we would have had a case at all today about Santa Claus if we had not been convicted. Then most likely today's law had just been there, and then we would have let that system be until further notice. But just because we're convicted, we're going to have to align with that. I believe that what the majority has come up, which is largely what the government has promoted, is something that will be possible. And that's the evaluations the department also does in the proposition. And that if someone finds some environments, in Ås or elsewhere, that think you can set the rates lower and that it will still stand, one will surely also find some of the more than 5 million Northmen who think you could have completely different rates, and that it would stand. But if this is going to happen, you're going to figure out the first day you might have a new case, and at least I'm sure that what the majority uses here will be more in relation to the Court of Human Rights than what the minority in the case puts up. So this with the agricultural exception has also been raised. It is true that this is something the Workers' Party introduced in its time. There are several of us who have stunned over the agricultural derogation. I record that the Workers' Party now submits comments – not suggestions, but comments – on the fact that this exemption should perhaps be removed. Well, we have this case today to deal with the verdict we've got against us, and further details about Santa Claus, and the discussion about Santa Claus, at least the Advance Party seems natural to take at a different time than in this case, which we have to get in place before we take a summer vacation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1977	The starting point is, as many have already pointed out, that Norway was convicted in the European Court of Human Rights in the so-called Lindheim judgment, because the property protection of landowners under the European Convention on Human Rights was not adequately protected. We as legislator therefore have a responsibility to correct the bias of the law in order to ensure a better balance between landowners and parties. We were convicted because the fixing of a fast fixation fee for the extension of land fasteners resulted in a pre-allocation of parties. The proposal that is on the table today is going to correct this bias, and I must call it a demanding balance. The judgment of the EMD gives us that legislates a certain room of discretion. We need to find the right balance between the rights of landowners to property protection, while taking into account housing social considerations and the need for the predictability of parties. It is this balance Christian People's Party that we have found together with the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. I note that the central party is in favour of the government's original proposal, which ensures the landowner's greater return, while the Workers' Party has gone the other way and perhaps stretched the knit too far, so that Norway could again be convicted in the EMD. Today's case is both technical and complex, but at the end of the day this concerns the home of individuals and families. It is therefore absolutely central that the rules we adopt can now provide predictability for the individual and ensure a fair balance between the parties. The aim of the changes is precisely to prevent the break-up of the EMK, and we largely agree with the government's proposal except on two points. In order to ensure a good balance and, not least, predictability in regulating the fixation charge, it is central that the rate is set in the legislative text. It has been claimed by some that the rate should be set to 5 pst. This has shown both the EID and the hearing bodies with a financial background that landowners will generate a disproportionate return on the land value by extending the agreement. The government put forward a proposal for a rate of 2.5 pst, but this thought we could give the landowner too much of the change in value. In the Lindheim judgment, the party fee was less than 0.25 pst. of market value. In order to ensure a ‘fair balance’ between parties and landowners and because there is a lower risk to fasteners than other tenure conditions, on which the rapporteur was involved, we have, together with the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, believed that a more correct rate would be 2 pst. The working party on its side proposes a rate of 1.25 pst. I think it's a little daring, all the time it could lead to our being re-judged in the EMD. This rate has not been carefully investigated by the Department of the Law Department of the Ministry of Justice, but the Ministry has provided legal assistance on the design of a legislative proposal. The cooperation lots have also agreed to introduce a safety valve that allows both anchorages and landowners to re-regulate the fastening charge once at least 30 years have elapsed from the previous regulation. The background for this is to prevent a future imbalance in the contractual relationship. The working party has proposed to introduce a degressive roof for large plots. It is a proposal we have a great sense of. At the same time, as both Frölich and Leirstein have been involved, this has already been observed in case law, and the example used by the Workers' Party in the setting is not very precise. When setting a new fastening charge for large plots, it is not possible for one to multiply only the ‘roof’ by the number of decks the plot is. An assessment of each land must be carried out. Firstly, a deduction shall be made from the value added by the attachment to the plot and one shall deduct from the ‘inhabitable’ denarius. In a judgment, the Supreme Court has laid down principles for the assessment of the roughness value. Thus, there is a practice of degressive roofing as early as today’s practice. With the thorough opinions of the majority in this Chamber, it will also help and will therefore not require any legislative changes. Several have also been subject to the agricultural derogation. I agree that this matter is about correcting what we have been convicted of in the EMD, but I also want to express my dissatisfaction with the agricultural exception where some parties who feel locked up cannot redeem the land. That's why I want to inform you that there's something we'll be looking at, perhaps also incentivised to allow more people to redeem the plots and possibly look at the abolition of the entire scheme, but there's a debate that we have to come back to later. Now I am at least happy that we are making changes that will ensure that we correct the bias that we have, after all, been condemned for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e1996	It is a very good, comprehensive and thorough work done in the Santa Claus Committee, which gave its position in 2013 on parties and international law. They have worked on solutions related to the fact that Norway was convicted in the Human Rights Court, and that was because the Santa Claus Act § 33 was designed so that it was not consistent with property protection. In this context, there is reason to recall that property rights are protected under Article 17 of the Convention on Human Rights and that was the starting point for this case. For the centre party, private ownership is a fundamental value, and we have for many years pointed to the imbalance in land-fixing legislation, where it can be simplified to say that, as the rules have been designed, land-holdings have received the largest proportion of the capital increase on a land that they do not own, while the owner of the land has not received a reasonable share of the capital increase on the land. It was this imbalance that the Human Rights Court also pointed out in 2012. Santa party is a special kind of rental: you own the house that is set on the plot, but you don't actually own the plot itself. Some people have thought that the ownership of the land has changed over time to parties. That's not the case. Santa Claus is actually and legally a tenancy relationship, and so it has also been dealt with in the Human Rights Court. The government's proposal aims to balance the relationship between landowners and landowners, so that our national rules are compatible with the views of the Human Rights Court. The lot agrees that changes in the fastening charge must be made to ensure that land appreciation falls to both parties. It must also be seen in the context of the Law on Landings §7 and 15, which leads to an indefinite extension, and that, after the first adjustment, only the index of consumer prices can be further regulated. The centre party agrees that the landowner should be entitled to a one-off fee from the fastening fee, and we believe, like the government, that a rate of return should be 2,5 pst. of the plot value. We also agree that a cap on the fastening fee corresponding to NOK 11 378 in 2015-krona value is introduced. The calculation of the fastening charge is at the core of the assessments to be made. It seems that the government believes that a rate of 5 pst. of the crude turbidity value is too high, while 2,5 pst. is taken as a reasonable balance between the parties. So the majority in the Chamber today chooses to go away from it without any visible reason other than that the government’s proposal ‘may seem to go a little far to the advantage of the fasteners’. The centre party considers it most remarkable that government parties do not seem to attach trust to their own government at this point, but chooses to set the rate below that proposed by the government, and lower than that for which there is actually a majority in the Storting today. It does not contribute to the stability of a legal area marked by disputes that, in the last turn, the government parties go beyond what their own government proposes. The central party will therefore address the government's proposals at this point. In this context, let me remind you that a number of court decisions in recent years have been based on a rate of return of 5 or 6 pst., and the issue of the Right to the press says that they have concluded this agreement because they have a cooperation agreement with the government, I would like to remind you that that cooperation agreement only concerns budgetary matters. It's something other than what we're facing today, and it can't be anything but an explanation from the Right and Advance Party. I also have to say that when Frølich here says that one of the problems with the law on Santa Claus is that the politicians go in and regulate in detail, that's exactly what the majority of the Storing is doing here today, when they go in and regulate in detail and regulate the rate of return in the way they do here, in a case where you keep a very demanding balance, and where we had served to relate to the government's proposal. Sense if someone thinks that a maximum rate of NOK 11 378 might seem high, for example. for a plot of 4 dimensions, it should be borne in mind that most fixators will have the right to a redemption of the plot at 25 times the fixation fee, or 40 pst. of the crude turbidity value. In theory, this means that you could have redeemed the land, split the land and then sold with quite a lot of profit in areas of the country where the housing market is under pressure. Many of us would also have had to pay far more for the purchase of a common land than a party would have to pay to obtain a land based on today's redemption rules. The centre party is part of the broad majority who wish to re-regulate after 30 years. We're looking at it as a safety valve, and we're also happy that the so-called agricultural exemption will pass. With this I take up the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2019	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2023	This is a difficult matter, but it is also an important matter. As many people have been involved, there have been quite a number of e-mails and telephones, because there are several large and strong players on both sides of this case. But there are also many individuals who are directly affected, because that is their homes we are talking about. The Institute of Santa Claus itself is, as I see it at least, an institute that offers a great deal of justice and conflict. That's because there are great values, and I think that whatever we'd adopted today, whether it's the model that the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party have been calling for, or whether it's the Workers' Party and the Central Party's model, the Workers' Party and the SV's model, or the Central Party's model, I'm pretty sure we haven't seen the end of the conflicts in court in the future either. The starting point is the judgment we got against us in the EMD, which in this way obliges us to do something with this institute as it was. The important thing for us in the Left has been that we should find a balance between the owner's right to property protection and the rights of attachment to predictability. I believe that we have now found a good balance, and in relation to the government's starting point, we meet the parties by setting interest rates at 2 pst., and we meet the parties by introducing a safety valve of 30 years. I think that the debate that several people have now debated about whether the festival institute is appropriate to hold, and whether the agricultural exemption should be abolished, is an interesting debate, and that is a debate that we will also be part of when that time comes. But right now it's about making sure that we get a code that's in line with the EMD. I believe we are doing that with the decision that we are going to make today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2034	I would first like to mention the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber, because we are not in the Committee. I would also like to inform you immediately that we will provide subsidized support for the Labour Party's proposals. "To be made for all, no one can do; it is now old and will be so." Ivar Aasen said so, and I agree with that, for it is not easy to create a Santa Claus law. A lot of people have tried. There are different considerations here that should be weighed, but I want to say that our home – the house we live in – is not any property. There are many legal considerations relating to this, and to the ownership of a land. But having a predictable relationship with the fact that you can afford to continue living in your home is for SV a very important value. The land attaching system may have been good, but now it has become insecure and poor, also because the government's proposal is too far in the direction of the owner of the land. There is quite a difference between the case that was under the EMK and the assessment of the conditions in it and the system that the government has now proposed. I believe that the proposal by the government does not help to reduce the risk that this case will continue to go to the European Court of Human Rights, but then to the other party as a party, because it is about the home of people, and because it is also property and rights attached to it. There is a discussion about the redemption and regulation of rentals, but I think that the debate sounds as if you expect that the party fee you have paid over several years, as well as not counting with. The reality is that if this becomes too unbalanced, the person who lives in his home, who is on this plot, has to pay the land several times. It is possible that someone thinks it is fair and reasonable – it does not mean SV. I have also heard representatives from the government parties say that the person who has signed such a contract and has built his house at a party house knows how it is and has gone into it with open eyes. I guess you could also say about the other party in these cases. If you put out a fastener, you know it's not a real estate that's open to you, but you also know that you have an incredibly safe return, even if it's low. I assume that those who have entered the owner's page have also taken this into account. It is possible that the proposal submitted by the government, after we have been informed, can give a time-lapse of the fixation fee compared to today's rules. That's obviously too much. In the case that has been assessed under the EMK, the market value was much lower on the land. So when the government now wants whoever wants to extend the party, they have to pay 2.5 pst. Of the plot value, it's obvious, in our view, an excessive increase. What level is appropriate is a political question and a balance. I'm probably afraid, although the majority have now reduced this a little – and of course I'm glad they do – that this decision does not stand, because we believe it is still too unbalanced, and now in the other direction. So our suggestion is that in addition to setting the percent of the plot value to 1.25 pst. also wants the limitation rule per land not to be NOK 9000 but NOK 6000 and that the multiplying factor is NOK 3000 and not NOK 6000. The proposal is advanced.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2051	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2054	I think the representative Karin Andersen is very right in one thing, and it's that it's not easy to make Santa Claus. There are many who have experienced through time. However, it is also a matter of focusing on the fundamental values of how important societal issues are to each other. It also makes balancing difficult. The matter is to a large extent summarised in the proposition and not least by the case rapporteur and those who have made contributions here today, so I shall limit myself to commenting on just some of these matters. We are now living under a temporary law that expires on 1 July of this year, and therefore it is also important for a given person to put in place the necessary decisions today. But on the part of the government, it has been a deliberate choice not to carry out a revision of the Santa Claus Act as such. Some of the interventions have in some ways been concerned with the rather general questions of principle, which are also relevant discussions, but which will be significantly more comprehensive and more complex than the limited issue we have to deal with today. So it's been a conscious choice that the goal of this proposition is to correct a human rights breach. Assessments have been made – as the representative Arnstad is also involved – in the department that has landed the government’s view on it. In this way, since we have had some tough debates with the Central Party earlier today, I would like to thank the Central Party for the good report of the Government's proposals. And then the Storting lands, through a compromise, a little bit different. In general, the setting is similar, but the percentage is slightly lower. This is not exactly science, so it is difficult – for one and the other party in this – to say that one or the other is not in relation to human rights. The assessments we have made in the department have just been made with a view to repairing – nothing more, but repairing the human rights breach. If that limit is 2,5 pst. Or on 2 pst., it's very hard to have a very clear and clear opinion about, but I'm absolutely convinced that we're going to find the answer to that. Because there is one thing that is absolutely certain, it is that no matter what kind of decision the Stortinget takes today – I assume then that they take the decision of the majority in the vote – I still believe that we will get new rounds in the legal system based on that decision. Then one will finally find that balance sheet, find out whether the balance sheet is correct or wrong, through the legal process. But the government has not had as a motive to make significant changes to the law on the land and the law on the land, but simply to correct a human rights violation, and I believe that there is reason to believe that the Storting will now make a decision, contributes to such a repair.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2069	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2072	Both the case spokesperson – no, it's me, it's me. I kept saying the case-speaker Frölich, but I am the case-speaker. [[Laughter]] Both the representative of the Right Frölich and the party of the Christian People's Party called for case law with regard to the argument against having a degressive roof on plots. The Supreme Court judgment that says that it can create such a precedent, I think, first of all, is an argument for lawyers, because if it is to be a reality, it simply implies that these cases are in court. By having a degressive roof, as we suggest, one can avoid many legal cases, and then we can say from the Storting that we politically believe that there should be a decreasing growth as the plot size increases. Doesn't the Council of State think it might be a point, and wouldn't it be better if the Storting said this in law? Or does the Council of State think it is unproblematic that very many parties are now going to see themselves forced to go the way of justice after the decision today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2079	The rapporteur's question is a good and tidy question, and I cannot stand here and say that it is fundamentally wrong to believe what the Workers' Party believes. The government and the majority in the vote have landed on something else. It is also linked to the valuation of large plots. What is a challenge in these cases is often that some of the plots could have a high value while the plots as such would not be particularly valuable, because they cannot be used for example. housing. This will be taken into account in determining the market value of the land and the proportion from which it will be calculated. So you could say that I have no problem understanding the logic of the Workers' Party's thinking here. But the government has landed on a different model, and I am not convinced that there will be any significant difference – in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2086	Thanks for the answer. Does that mean that the Minister of Justice thinks that after all the letters, or e-mails, that we have received from anxious parties that now fear party fees of about NOK 30 000 a year, where today they may have NOK 6000 a year, that the parties can take it easy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2091	It's very dangerous to stand here on the platform and say that everyone can take it easy. This will have consequences. It will make a difference for each party. But as I mentioned in my main post, the goal of the government is to repair the human rights breach. Then there will always be a question of where to put the list so that you can be sure that that human rights breach is satisfactorily corrected. Once we have evaluated this, we believe that the model we have chosen is the one that best meets it. That doesn't mean that the choice of an alternative model would have the opposite outcome. But we've chosen this model because we think it's the best way to fix this human rights breach satisfactorily. And then in some cases it'll have a much larger impact than in other cases, and then you'll always have this safety valve. There is always the possibility of using the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2100	I'm also very busy, now that this decision is being made against our voices, that we get as much clarity in this unclear as possible. Then I have another question, and it's about the demands from EMD to Norway. They say we're going to find a fair balance, not that we're going to look for good returns. We believe that the proposal now presented by the Government Party and the Central Party takes far more account of the fact that it should be a good return than a fair balance. What is the Council of State's comment on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2105	Once we've assessed this, the starting point is that it's going to be a fair balance. We're going to correct the human rights breach, not have a shift of one or the other party's interest. If we wanted to, I think we should put forward a bill on the revision of the entire party institute. We've deliberately chosen not to do that. There are also different assessments, including in legal environments, of what is needed to correct that human rights breach. But that's what's been the starting point, and then the starting point is to ensure a fair balance. But then the Court of Human Rights has also said that it is the law in itself that is the problem, and that is why we have had to come to the Grand Duchy with this bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2113	Since it seems that no others want a line, Lene Wagslid gets a line no. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2116	Thank you, President. I'm dividing the government's assessment that what we're going to do now is to correct the breakup of the EMK. I also record that many people have expressed support for the idea of discussing both the agricultural exemption and other challenges surrounding the law. Does the Council of State realize that it would be appropriate to be able to take up such a discussion already in the House?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2121	There are no plans in the government to move forward in this area now. What has been our priority has been to ensure that we do not violate human rights. Now we will see how this will end in the legal system, because I am absolutely sure – as I mentioned earlier – that this will be tried in court, either from one side or the other, regardless of which decision is taken today. But there are no concrete plans in the government to open up a big discussion about other parts of the Santa Claus Institute now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2126	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2131	The issue of Santa Claus is very important to many. It is all about very large amounts of money, and it is about predictability in the first row of houses and homes. In Eastfold, as in other counties, we have a number of party contracts, both for housing and for cabins, and now, therefore, are the concerns of the Santa Claus parties in Eastfold who, rightly, are afraid that the party fees are going to shoot in the weather. The landowners could get more help from the government, but this is not where the Right Party and the Advance Party stand. The government's proposal in this matter does not help to address the concerns of Santa Claus, rather the opposite. It's reading, among other things. by examples from the Whaler in the case. Then I notice the representative Frülich's words that the whole arrangement of a plot is strange. I also take note of the representative Roppstad's words that this is a system that you might prefer to remove. Then the message to the landowners is that the Workers' Party will primarily remove the whole scheme; we are not in favour of it. There are many good reasons to remove the scheme. It's, you ask me, really a modern kind of housekeeper contract that doesn't belong anywhere in our modern society. Some have said that there are a lot of problems with the Santa Claus Act, and that now one has to take into account human rights in a way. Removing the system will at least stand in terms of human rights, because then we would have removed the problem. But pending the removal of the system, the Progress Party – Right-Registration, together with the Christian People’s Party and – I understand – the Left, is so that having a celebration will be significantly more expensive than today. And it's a little strange that the Progress Party, which calls itself the party the most, is involved in pushing up the rental prices of parties significantly, but they may not think that those who have parties are most of the people. The right-wing party government's proposal in this matter is probably good for the owner, but that is very bad news for the tenant.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2146	Norway has been convicted in the European Court of Human Rights. The law we have is not in line with the international conventions and weakens the rights of the landowner. This is a serious situation that requires action. The Santa Claus question has been thoroughly discussed. Different models have been outlined and laid the basis for policy priorities. That means that the Storting today has a good basis for taking a decision. In recent years, there have been a number of changes in the Santa Claus Institute. It is now necessary to create foreclosure for both fasteners and fasteners. At the same time, we have to say that the system can also be process attenuating for those who are involved. Legal conflicts are always bad luck. The recording in the process has been shared, but it is a common desire that there should be a carelessness about the Santa Claus Institute. What was the starting point for everyone is that the basic owner's ability to participate in the future capital increase on his own property needs to be strengthened. The central party believes that the government's proposal for a percentage for a future party fee is balanced and good. This will ensure foreclosure for both the fastener and the fastener. We are somewhat surprised that we now had to take up our government's proposal and stand alone on this, despite the fact that the government party could have achieved multiple numbers for its primary position in teams with the Center Party. We are pleased that Stortinget today is considering introducing a safety valve into the Santa Claus Act that ensures that the attachment fee can be re-regulated after 30 years. It is necessary to prevent the development of bias over time. The centre party believes the agricultural exemption is an important principle that helps to secure the income base for agricultural property throughout the country. The weakening of the nutrient base in District Norway is not consistent with a vision of ensuring the establishment and nutritional basis of the country as a whole. We are therefore pleased that this exception will be retained. However, experience suggests that parties and landowners find good solutions both to live with if redemption is desired.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2165	The representative Frölich said in his contribution that the government party together with the Christian People's Party had a good reason for the choice of a fixed fee of 2 p.m. I could think of righting that foundation. I asked about it, considering that the EMD said very clearly that the choice of the attachment fee had to be justified. It has been criticised by many that the government's original proposals lack such a good foundation, and it might also be interesting to give the right foundation for 2 pst. At least I want to take the time to base the Labour Party's proposal, because we think it's an important part of the order from Strasbourg. We propose a fixed fee of 1.25 pst. If one assumes that the Storting has selected 40 pst. of the market value, as a rule, upon the redemption of fasteners, assuming that 2,5 pst. is the full market value of the extension, corresponding to 1.25 pst. for a 50-50 distribution between awnings and attachments. In this way, there is good compliance in the legislation. The balance by right to extension is approximately equal to the balance by right of redemption. After the NMBU at Ås, this is also a sustainable both legal and economic foundation. So I agree that the discussion about both agricultural exemptions and the existence of the law may not necessarily belong here today, but it's hard not to see it in a context. For those who have contacted us, it's precisely what many people have pointed out here before, that families feel trapped in this situation, because they now get a high fixation, get a high roof, and maybe have more plots. In this way, they may also be bound on all edges because of the agricultural exemption. It's a big economic challenge for many. I understand that the Minister of Justice does not want or can say that it is this way and so, because I share his view that this is not science. But it's important that we take these people's concerns seriously, and we have to follow this very closely. I am unfortunately afraid that some of the copies we have received, e.g. from Lauvås' home country, but also from my county, Telemark, and from Hedmark and Uppland, on people who sit on very simple cabins in the third and fourth generations and have had a low fixation fee over many, many years, now such a huge increase that it becomes very difficult for them to handle. It is also a reality. As Karin Andersen said earlier, what we are talking about here has an enormously important self-esteem. I look forward to discussing this further. It's not the last time we're discussing the empty fastener. So, of course, I think it's a pity that our proposal doesn't get multiple numbers today, because we think it would be the best thing for both the parties and the accomplices.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2178	It was the representative Lauvås’ attack on the four cooperation parties that made me take the floor. He presents it as if this is a desirable development – that these four cooperation parties want to impose the highest rent on people, and that this is a malicious act. That's not the point of this case. That is not what is being discussed in this case either. What is being discussed is how to resolve a situation in which Norway has committed a human rights violation, because the government in which Lauvås’ party was put was unable to comply with the human rights requirement. So I think it's a little bit of a strange way to take that discussion. We would like to have a discussion about land retention in general and the level of land retention charges in general, and how the land retention system should be in general in the future. But that's not what we're here for now. I respect that there are different perceptions of what is needed to correct this human rights violation, but that is what is the starting point for the discussion. So the government parties and the Left and Christian People's Party believe that there is one level that is needed to meet the demand, and then the Workers' Party believes something different. I think that's okay. But to say that there's some sort of malicious lack of consideration for most people, I just think it's to draw it relatively much longer than it's basis for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2188	In the name of the fight, I had almost said, in the debate yesterday, I was injured to accuse the leader of the opposition for intellectual latency, not to deal with the real justification. I don't want to do it again, but parts of the opposition have clearly been a little sloppy about the reason that we're actually operating on when it comes to choosing the percentage. The remarks make it clear that we are essentially adding to the very good reason given by the ministry when they have fixed 2.5 pst. as a ‘fair balance’. So we have to consider it a supplement, or an attachment to that rationale, that we're making some adjustments. We show you, for example: in the setting that some fewer properties will meet the ceiling. So it's a clear social aspect. Furthermore, we point out that the party contracts have a low risk, and over time that is a good return. In addition, I have also shown here from the pulpit to hearings, among other things. these five highly employed economists associated with the NHH, which say that a percentage in the range up to 2,5 pst is fully sound. So I'd say we're on safe ground. It will always be that those who disagree with profit or loss would like to feel that the counterparty’s justification is weak. I have spoken to people who believe that the grounds of the Workers' Party are extremely weak. I think we're going to keep our heads a little cold, and then we're going to do what the Council of State has called for, that's to look at this as a conscientious work and wait for legal treatment. I hope we've managed to repair the human rights violation we're convicted of.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2195	No, I didn't use the expression malicious action, as far as I can remember. It is possible that one could perceive it as such, but what I mentioned was simply the government's policy, which is to be read in the proposal in the case. Something other than that I did not. Then I referred to the primary position of the Workers' Party. As our national meeting has said, we want to remove the scheme in the long term, and I'm going to say that now I see an opportunity that it might be possible to do, with the signals that have arrived. So it's just repeating that the government had a larger space of action, could make it easier for the Santas and could make it cheaper for the Santas. This selects not to be done by the government and the supporting parties. But it's not right too late yet. It is not a vote that you can still vote in favour of the Labour Party's proposal. It would make the matter a little simpler, at least financially, for they approx. 170,000 is valid in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2202	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2216	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2223	This proposition will provide the defence with a secure legal basis for providing police assistance. I think everyone in this room will agree that defence can be a very valuable resource for society and for the police, especially in emergencies. There may be anything from the Special Command of the Defense, which goes in where no one else can or dares. It may be the Home Guard, who keeps watch, contributes in search or secures a place of race. This is a matter of a long and very twisted story. It goes back very far in time, for example. mention is made of the 1980s and debates on the Alta action. Now it gets some kind of clarification. What has been a problem for a very, very long time is that there has been a difference between what we, as politicians, have expected from the Defense in their assistance to the police, and what they can actually do legally. It has been widely mentioned both in research and in the media that there has been uncertainty in the defence of how far their homes actually extend. I would like to point out that in the Workers' Party's comments on this matter, they state quite clearly that today's regulation through an aid directive, a regulation, is actually compatible and straightforward in relation to the Constitution. I do not agree with that, but it is very important to remember that a regulation is now just a regulation. The Constitution requires that this type of warrant for the use of power be determined by us, the Stortinget, in a law. So if the defense of today's aid instructions is to exercise power in some form, they have to find some kind of legal basis, and it's a very, very twisted image they have to deal with today. Should the defense, for example: helping to enforce an evacuation or similar situation, is it difficult to say what basis to operate with: Is it emergency law? Is the area to be declared a military area? It's very hard to decide. The same applies, for example: if the defence is to contribute to the search for persons who would like to be arrested. It's hard to know which law firm to invoke there. We are now removing that uncertainty. The plural notes also state that this is necessary to be fully compatible with the Constitution. The legal security we provide today, I believe at some point will also be felt in the operational security of the defence personnel, and perhaps also the police personnel, when they are going to practice together and perhaps also operate together in sharp situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2243	There's really no reason to say so much about this bill. The aim of the bill is to ensure a legal basis for the aid directive. The assistance instruction in question will continue to apply, but one ensures a clear legal anchor, and there is no doubt that the aid instruction then has the necessary anchoring to ensure that there is no uncertainty and uncertainty about the use of military power against the civilian population in some very special, demarcated circumstances. I have seen that there have been some discussions in the setting related to the extent of use, that much is left to instructions and regulations. At the same time, there is no change in the legal situation in such a way that, in fact, that aid is granted in the form of the law. I think it's positive and will be clarifying. I also have to draw attention to the fact that the government is going to go through the aid directive and revise it, to ensure that it is fully up-to-date and that we can make improvements in the areas where it is necessary. That work is already well under way, but it is an extensive and demanding work. In the meantime, of course, the current aid directive, which is now legally anchored.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2250	This is an important matter, and there has been no particularly large disagreement in the matter. I think everyone has a desire to get cleaned up in the practice that has been. The Labour Party would stress that there is a long and firm practice for today's forms of assistance from the Defence for the Police. It is regulated in instructions on the defence assistance to the police, i.e. the assistance instructions. We notice, of course, that there may be reason to ask questions about this, by proposing a comprehensive use of regulation rather than regulating it in law – specifically linked to it in part by the extensive access to assistance provided for in the third and fourth paragraphs of Section 27. The Labour Party will stress that since the terrorist attack on 22 July 2011, there has been a strong focus on improving the security of society in Norway, including civil-military cooperation, and ensuring the legal and practical framework for more effective defence assistance when requested by the police. At the same time, the Defense may assist with a variety of different and relevant capacities in this type of situation. This could be done, for example, by: be helicopter transport, securing of essential features and assistance from the Special Forces of the Defence. Therefore, in our view, it is of particular importance that the government of Solberg is now following up by proposing to regulate the legal framework for the defence assistance to the police. We will strongly emphasise that a law that regulates the assistance of the defence to the police in its own law will contribute much more to the security of state and society, and we hope that it will come in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2259	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 8 and 9 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2286	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the political groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2297	Today's treatment of Prop. 97 L for 2014-2015 and Prop. 98 S for 2014-2015 concerns an interim review of the evolution of the electricity licence market between Norway and Sweden. Electronic certificates are of fundamental importance in order for us to realise an overall commitment to renewable energy in the Nordic region. When the deadline expires in 2020, we will be able to have 28.4 billion. kWh more renewable energy, equivalent to consumption of more than one million households. Planned investments are large in both production and infrastructure. There are large industrial projects combined. That's when it actually happens. That's the green transition that many people like to talk about. The target is a renewable share of 67.5 pst. in 2020 – in that case it will be the highest in Europe. The Committee expresses concern that it will be difficult to achieve this objective, and events over the past week have not made us more optimistic in this way. I expect that several of the speakers in today's debate will address this during the debate. It is also one of the reasons why the debate has been slightly expanded in relation to what was the original proposal. The cases of the Storting today shall be settled, the so-called first control station, do not involve major changes to the electrical certification system, and this is wise. Stability and predictability are important for those who are to invest under the scheme. The Government’s proposal extends the time limit for new installations to be in service in order to be entitled to an electricity certificate until 31 December 2021. In this way, good projects planned to start in 2020 could be realised without uncertainty in order to comply with the deadline. The whole of the Committee has given its assent to this amendment. The Committee also agrees that the next inspection post should be accelerated to 2017 instead of 2019, as it should have been under the original agreement with Sweden. In this way, any legislative changes could enter into force on 1 January 2018 and become relevant to the achievement of the target within the deadline of 2021. I am pleased that the transitional electricity certificate scheme will also include works built in 2004 or later. The Labour Party, SV and the Environmental Party The Greens do not want to give these works the right to an electricity certificate, and I expect that they will justify their views in subsequent speeches during the debate. But the majority see it in such a way that it is about fair treatment, and it is about small-scale power stations that are currently struggling, but which have the potential to ensure just increased renewable energy production. The centre party is also in favour of a further extension of the transitional regime to a few works, which, following the amendment adopted by the Stortinget today, will remain out of the scheme. In the case of works above 10 MW built before 7 September 2009 as well as installations with increased generation as a result of upgrading, which should also be included in the transitional electricity certificate scheme. Norway and Sweden have conducted negotiations on changes to the single market agreement for an electricity certificate, and the result is that the goal of new electricity production is now 28.4 TWh. However, the agreement depends on the Swedish government meeting the condition to reduce the tax benefits for Swedish wind power by removing the exemption from wind power that is not supplied professionally. There is some uncertainty about what will be done on the Swedish side in this way, and I stress that the Riksdag must take such a decision, if not the whole agreement could fall away, which the Council of State has also confirmed to the Stortinget. The last week has been dramatic in an energy policy perspective. State power has been informed that they are withdrawing from wind power projects in the Nordic region, and the consequence is that Norway’s remote largest renewable effort is at risk of not being realised. Wind power development at Fosen is one of the largest in the world, with total investment of between 15 and 20 billion. kr. We in the Center Party ask ourselves what the consequence is for the national renewables effort and the target of 67.5 pst. renewable share in 2020 if this project is not realised. There is also reason to ask what happens to the objective of becoming a leader in environmental technologies and less dependent on oil. I also record that Statnett is now creating uncertainty about how to build a high-voltage line from Namsos to Surnadal, and whether it will be realised at all. It will be serious both in relation to the renewable target and because the Norwegian society is experiencing falling profitability in the oil industry and increasing unemployment. We need a green transition for many reasons, and there must be a willingness to bet and risk making Norway a major renewable producer, even outside hydropower. This is going to be an important aspect of today's debate. There are many questions that need to be answered. That is why the debate has also expanded, so that aspects of what has happened can be highlighted through the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2329	Does the President assume that the representative should make a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2332	I refer to the proposal of the Senterpartiet in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2337	The representative Marit Arnstad then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2340	If we are to solve the climate problem, we must replace fossil energy with renewable energy. To achieve this, we need to significantly increase the production of renewable energy over time, while implementing measures to use renewable energy in areas where we have used fossil energy in the past. Through the consultation process of an adjusted agreement with Sweden on the Electricity Certificate Agreement, heavy energy operators oppose the agreement, including Energy Norway. They call for more attention to be paid to the use of the force. The use of land-based power and the organisation of power-intensive industries may well be a good response to that. The electricity certificate market we have together with Sweden will contribute to the objectives we have set ourselves in the Renewables Directive and to trigger 26.4 TWh new renewable energy by 2020. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that Norway obtains its legitimate share of the investments through the certification scheme. Unfortunately, we see that it is demanding. The low electricity price was an expected consequence of the production of new renewable energy, but we need to look at how we can facilitate several of the investments to be made in Norway and provide ring-effects to Norwegian industry and Norwegian municipalities. Without expansion in Norway, it is difficult to build an industrial presence in that part of the renewable sector. The electrical certificate system operates in such a way that we are Norwegian electricity customers who pay for the development of renewable energy through the certificates. Yesterday's Business Day, we could read that if you take into account today's pricing, the total cost over the system's lifetime is going to be 48 billion. kr. We must not go into the trap that we think this is not noticed because this money does not go above the state budget. When the government now proposes and agrees with the Committee to increase the number of old power plants to be supported, there is reason to ask some questions. In the proposition, the cost is calculated to cost a further 2,4 to 4 billion. kr. So it's power plants that produce current today. It's a problem that we don't get to attract enough investment to Norway. The size has taken some action to improve the investment base of operators on the Norwegian side. The change in the depreciation policy is central here. The Labour Party proposed 40 pst. more depreciation over the first four years of technology neutral for certification power. The government has declined to a lower level. In the agreement with Sweden that we now have for treatment, the Council of State asks us to approve that the Swedish should increase their commitment by a further 2 TWh. We have noticed that there are problems in the Swedish Parliament. It is essential that the Council of State does not agree that Sweden should increase its commitment without evening out investment relations between Swedish and Norwegian actors. It's a strange situation we're now in, and the majority of the population will now give access to already adopted and developed projects that have not had access to certificates. In other words, investments already made must receive subsidies from Norwegian electricity customers. In addition, we need to increase the scope of the certification market, which in turn will increase the production of power in the Nordic market, which in turn will reduce prices and make it more difficult to invest. This is done at a time when the state's own company, Statkraft, has not been able to count back a profitable investment of wind power projects on Fosen and Snillfjord in the South Trøndelag – my and the state council's home country. I am one of many from the Trondelags who have been proud and happy that the country's most ambitious wind power development was to be realized right there. I am also one of those who was very disappointed and surprised when Statkraft sent out a press release last week and announced that there would be no wind power, on the grounds that the projects were not profitable due to low prices of power and electricity certificates in the Nordic region – a wind power surge that has been lifted up as robust and solid. It is not strange that the host municipalities are in shock. They have prepared and been ready to facilitate and further grow and develop. I had a visit yesterday by the rapporteur in Åfjord Municipality, Vibeke Star, and she could tell how they and business have been preparing for ten years. She wanted an explanation, and she's not alone. We have to get an explanation, we have to get numbers on the table and a reason why the wind power expansion of our country is shrank overnight without anyone being prepared for it. I have noticed that the Minister of Industry has asked for an explanation. We have to get a proper explanation. I think it is strange that the Council of State has not kept up-to-date on the development of such an important renewable industry project in Norway. Of many, precisely these projects are considered to be the best, with good wind conditions and an agreement with Statnet on a line link. In a market where investment goes to Sweden, expectations for these projects were high. Norway, as an arena for investing in wind power, is significantly weakened if these projects are not realised. State power has created expectations that these projects could be realised, expectations that give rise to optimism in industry and in the region. It is very negative that they are now unable to deliver what they have said. The Labour Party proposed a more liberal system of depreciation rules for renewable energy than the government did. We assumed that the government had an understanding of what would be the necessary means to produce new renewable projects. This shows that the government misjudged the situation, even though it is not certain that increased depreciation could create profitability in the project. The fact that wind power projects in central Norway are not being implemented is a problem for the entire Norwegian renewable industry. We wanted to facilitate the development of this project when we were in government – the red-green government – and gave the state network concession in the area in a way that enabled wind power. It is essential that the government now ensure that Statnett does not further exacerbate the situation by closing the central network door already in its meeting next week. There may be several who will be involved in finding solutions to the group that has now arisen. In December, an international climate agreement shall be negotiated in Paris, where Norway should and shall be offensive in order to establish an ambitious agreement with ambitious objectives. If we are to get a green shift, it means that countries that are prerequisites for producing renewable energy contribute to the development of good technology and the realisation of good projects, such as that on Fosen and in Snillfjord.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2370	Then the next speaker is now the representative Rasmus Hansson, who has replaced the one who was advertised, because of a press conference in the hiking hall. The President has a great deal of understanding of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2373	Thanks to the Right, who is cooperative, for getting things to slide. Climate policy is about to stop using fossil energy. Since half of Norwegian energy use is fossil, we need more renewable energy. The ETS would increase the development of renewable energy, and that was a good idea. But the idea was traced from the outset, when the dominant measure became subsidies to landowners building expensive hydroelectric power plants with bedding technology in small basins. For safety reasons, the majority today will further exacerbate this by also issuing certificates for brook power stations of less than 10 MW built 10 years ago. Most of the development of the green Nordic certificate market has taken place in Sweden. So last week, Statkraft stopped its wind project on Fosen because the power price has become too low. Much indicates that it will be difficult to get back to life in the Norwegian wind power development with today's regime. Meanwhile, Norwegian taxpayers are expected to pay 50 billion. kr for wind power in Sweden until 2035. The Greens have little against Norway contributing to renewable development in Sweden. But without a plan to use the power to replace fossil energy, without propelling technology that the world needs, without creating jobs that can take over the oil industry, the electricity certificates lose legitimacy in Norway. Most people do not see the point of increasing natural interference and extra electricity billing to produce a planless power surplus that ends up undermining the price base for further renewable energy development. We need to create a renewable energy support regime that can take over the electricity certificates we have today. The National Audit Office’s report, which Stortinget dealt with in 2014, provides many answers, and so does the experience from other countries. Here are three important criteria to put in place a new renewable policy that will bring development in Norway back on track: Firstly, fossil energy use needs to be systematically replaced with renewable energy use. A new energy plan needs to address how much renewable production we need to achieve the climate objectives, what to cover by efficiency, what to export, and what to go to the power-intensive industry. This can be beneficial in the new energy message announced by the government. Secondly, further renewable development must take place within an overall plan for the conservation of Norwegian nature. Today too many bad projects are applying for a concession. It creates a high level of conflict. Sweden and Denmark select a few areas that are suitable for development, reduce conflicts, streamline processing and take care of more naturally. Technical weekly has estimated that Norway uses 2 billion. kr only on concession processes, i.e. more than building wind power, because of a high level of conflict because we have not prioritised nature and planned. Thirdly, the problem is that the electrical certificates are technology-neutral, i.e. that they favour cheap, existing technology. That's not what we needed. We are currently subsidising the installation of foreign hardware technology in our most beautiful nature. It doesn't provide technology development, it doesn't provide jobs. That may be good landowners policy, but there are bad climate policies and bad business policies. The Germans think the opposite. They use targeted subsidies that they have targeted at the sun and wind, and today this has led to solar technology and wind technology being real alternatives worldwide. On the way, they have created hundreds of thousands of jobs and cut their greenhouse gas emissions by well over 20 pst. The British also think differently. They had a regime that was technology-neutral and similar to ours. They have left it and moved on to a technology-oriented regime such as Favors sea wind. As a result, our own Statoil goes to Scotland to use that regime to develop large sea wind projects – so they don't do it at home, where they were supposed to do it. The Greens have proposed that Norway support a heavy sea wind effort. That proposal is under discussion in Stortinget, and we are keen – especially in the light of today’s situation – on how the Stortinget will respond to it. Because it is obvious that it is in a bet like sea breezes that the large resources, the great opportunities for technology development and the great opportunities for work are not in pelvic development. Norway still has the opportunity to become a leader in the development of renewable technologies, but then we need a regime that puts in place the assumptions that I have mentioned, which means that we both create jobs, run technologies, solve climate problems and preserve Norwegian nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2399	It is good that we have got there that we have a unanimous attitude, at least when it comes to concluding an agreement with Sweden. It is beneficial that we have a unanimous attitude on this. So what we're going to discuss today is two things: it's consent to the conclusion of an agreement between Norway and Sweden on a change in the agreement on a single electricity licence market, and that's Prop. 97 L for 2014-2015, on amendments to the Electricity Certificates Act. First of all, to the agreement. As I said, it is good that a unanimous committee is behind the proposal for an agreement. It has something to say about the predictability of the resources we have chosen to enter, that the certificates should be fixed. However, there has been some doubt about what is happening in Sweden. We record that not everything there seems clear, and that there is some concern about this matter with our neighbours in the east. So in this case, which concerns the agreement with Sweden, we assume, of course, that the Swedish Parliament is making the decisions underpinning the agreement that we are now to conclude, and, as the rapporteur explained, that the assumptions contained in the agreement are adopted. That's what's at stake, and we assume that's what's going to happen in order to get into the deal. So to what goes on changes in the law on electricity certificates. There has been a lot of talk about expanding pelvic power and how to move forward to get new technologies to expand new renewable energy. It might seem a little strange that we're now going to give certificates to someone who's already built up their power, but the background for us to do that is a story that's a little long – it's at least going back in time and it's a little squirmy. We actually have to go back to 2003. Then it was in our beautiful country that it was partly energy crisis, and the price of electricity was quite high. I'm not going to say what the exact number was, but it was probably a price of more than 1 kroner per kWh. It was a wish for us to expand new renewable energy in Norway, and that it was important to bring down the price picture. It was difficult for consumers, and it was also a major challenge for those who were engaged in business activity. The price was high. Those were difficult times. One wanted to get a big expansion, and one wanted to meet the challenge that was. It was done. Work on stimulating a new build-up of power started, and we started talking about a scheme of green certificates, which we are now introducing. The job of getting such a system started, but as we all know, it was not done overnight. Many had projects that could be developed, but now they were waiting for the situation to see if they could be included in the scheme or not. It wasn't a durable arrangement. At the time, they wanted those who were sitting on the fence and waiting to build up, and they made promises that they would be in the arrangement if they started building up. Many operators in the industry took a chance at the promise we made, building up their facilities between 1 January 2004 and 7 September 2009, which was the period during which the scheme began. When the scheme was adopted, it turned out that they did not come. We have made many proposals in this room where we wanted to keep what we had promised these actors at the time, and we have been accused of our promises being eclectic. But now we are delivering, and I think it is important that we, as politicians, when we make such promises, also keep what we promise. That's the background for the changes we're now making. And then we're going to make another change. Today we decide to secure several thousand industrial jobs across the country by proposing to exempt our refineries from electricity certificates. We give our companies in refining the same competitive conditions as the North European refineries, which means that they initially get a level playing field and don't pay the costs that the others don't have. It provides a good basis for them, and it's also important. So we fulfill our promises to a great extent. We guarantee our businesses a better competitiveness. In my view, that is good and predictable policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2418	The scheme of green certificates was designed to stimulate increased renewable production with Sweden and has received good support. But it is a fact that a greater degree of closure has taken place in our neighbouring country, so that a greater degree of support will come to Swedish facilities. The agreement provides for a common objective to increase renewable electricity production in Norway and Sweden by a total of 26.4 TWh in 2020. As of 1 January 2015, approved plants corresponding to 10,3 TWh, of which only 1,7 TWh are built in Norway, and a joint committee is concerned that too little of the expansion takes place in Norway, there is every reason to focus on this further. The first control station, which we are now dealing with, is our first opportunity to make agreed changes with our partners and internal changes. Changes to the certification system at this control station contain three main elements: to extend the transitional regime an adjustment to the electricity licence allowances in line with Norway’s obligations under the agreement between Norway and Sweden on a common market for electricity certificate an extension of the end date for which installations qualify for an electricity certificate That means that we have and use this opportunity to correct a promise the red-green government has not kept up, simply to involve them around 240 power plants that were promised to enter the scheme of certificates and through it have the possibility of having an accounting return on their investment in renewable energy – as they were promised. Furthermore, through negotiations, it has been concluded that the three to five production plants with a production of more than 10 MW will also be included in this scheme. I'm very happy about that. A greater lifting breach than what we witnessed from the red-green government, one should look for a long time, and it had to be a bourgeois government to rectify this lifting breach, which too many could lead to one more personal bankruptcy, and one had to leave the yard and ground. The fact that the Labour Party still thinks this is all right is completely incomprehensible. A single committee also indicates that, as a general rule, production plants built to replace existing plants are not considered as new plants, but support the government's view that, in some cases, they will be able to assess them so that they are granted the right to a certificate for their production. It shows a flexibility that I'm glad one gets in place. In addition, we also have a refinery system in place, so that they are equated with power-intensive industrial enterprises, and thus do not participate in the purchase of a certificate. With the framework conditions these refineries now get, it is an important and decisive point for good future operations and results. So some words about the framework conditions for increased renewable production in general. This government has improved the framework conditions in many areas in order to stimulate increased investment in this desired sector, most recently with improved depreciation regimes around the wind power sector. Then it is disappointing that projects that have been presented as robust and forward-looking, after the improvements have come into place, are actually adopted in a jagged way anyway. The Fosen project is a clear example of such a conclusion, and one must be able to ask what the framework will do to reverse such a conclusion, when this type of establishment still travels with support through the certification scheme to our neighbouring country Sweden. Future renewable efforts in Norway should and should be based on a lack of technologies, supported, inter alia, by: The Technology Fund and Enova, aiming at the shortest possible path towards a low-carbon society. There will also be an important premise for the future of the announced energy message. I am pleased that today we have a government and a government council that sees the importance of a holistic and superior message, which has been wanted by many for a very long time. Only here can LO, NHO, environmental protection organisations, etc. Now it's at work, and I'm very happy about that. As mentioned in the previous article, we will vote in favour of the loose proposal on the subject, which has been made by the Christian People's Party and the Left, about the four-five power plants, which are not in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2455	We're dealing with one thing with a long history today. I would like to remind you that the backstop for this case was the power crisis in the winter of 2003 as a result of an unusually dry harvest in 2002. Green certificates, or electricity certificates, were intended as a market-based support system to accelerate the deployment of renewable energy sources. Renewable energy producers would receive revenues from the sale of a certificate to consumers in addition to the sale of the electricity. An important additional argument, seen in the light of the 2003 power crisis, was to ensure that increased hydropower deployment would contribute to increased security of electricity supply through the winter months. The scheme was adopted by the Government Parties of the Bondevik II Government, together with SV, with a government setting up such a scheme with a single Norwegian-Swedish market for green certificates by the end of 2005. The current government had the aim of getting the scheme up and running, but this was only postponed because one in Sweden wanted to postpone the start-up. The Swedish already had such a market to be adapted to a common Norwegian-Swedish market. A one-sided Norwegian market would be too small to be an effective tool for increasing renewable energy production. All the parties in the Stortinget supported the Bondevik II Government when it agreed in 2005 with the Swedish Government to introduce such a single market from 2007. After the government change in 2005, the new red-green government signaled that they would postpone the scheme and decided to ice it later. It was there for a while, as this case shows, we actually got a common market for electricity certificates from 1 January 2012 and we can read it in the setting of the matter we now have on the table. It's positive that a broad majority in the Storting is now standing behind and going in to do most of the necessary steps that we now have on the table in the proposition, if it's called the first control station. The Christian People’s Party supports in principle the proposal to extend the transitional regime to hydropower plants with installed power below 10 MW and to start construction after 1 January 2004. This has been a long-term extension of the intervention by the owners of the 240 installations that have not yet been part of the transitional scheme but which are now significantly strengthened on the basis of income. They have contributed to increased renewable energy production, and we are now ensuring that this production is maintained through the award of green certificates that provide a far more predictable economy for those who have taken the challenge and the risk of investing in small power plants. When I started with history, it was to emphasise that we now also have a responsibility to create good framework conditions for those who, on the basis of the political signals given in 2003, started investing. As indicated in the setting, there are now several power plants, including: in Sogn and Fjordane, fell out of the scheme because they have a production of more than 10 MW of installed power. The construction started on the basis of signals from the former Minister of Oil and Energy Einar Steensnæs, and these signals did not include this limitation. One of the power companies that has fallen outside the scheme of green certificates was designed and built in due time to meet the need for increased security of supply after the power crisis in the winter of 2003. It was entirely in line with the political signals given about building power plants with the corresponding magazine, so that power generation could also take place during the winter months. So we are facing a situation where power plants that were newly built on the basis of, among other things. strong political leadership that they would be part of a green certification market, later called the Electric Certificate Market, will be left with blackmail. The state must not be unreasonable here. This is very important for several companies and municipalities in an area of the country that has been left with black spots in several other areas in the past. We therefore, together with the Left, promote the following proposals: ‘The government asks to include power plants with installed power above 10 MW, starting from 1 January 2004–7. September 2009, in the use of the transitional regime.’» I would like to point out that a change has been made to the wording of this proposal during the morning. I have chosen to concentrate my article on it. With regard to the other proposals made by the government in Prop. 97 L, we end up with them, as it emerges from the comments we're in in the committee position. The other matter that we have on the table, on consent to the conclusion of the agreement of 8 April 2015 between Norway and Sweden on the modification of a single market agreement for electricity certificates, we have no comments on, in addition to the broad common comment we are part of. So I'm going to use the last seconds of my post to pay tribute to the government for a dynamic attitude and the ability to listen right up to the last turn of the case, so it's now assumed that this proposal will have a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2482	The President then interprets it to that point that the representative Steinar Reiten has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2485	Let me just start by stating that the first positive decision to an electric certificate market was the SV that got in place, together with the Bondevik II administration, in connection with the gas notification. It is also right to say – and underline – that we are working on the introduction of the electricity licence market, so that it should not be a technology neutral scheme. But we have the arrangement we have, and that's what we're going to discuss now. We are in a serious situation because the Norwegian renewable investment is actually deflated before it has really started, because Statekraft has chosen to drop investment on Fosen. In the past, they have dropped the upgrade of Smøla, and they have also announced that they are dropping all further investment in wind power in Sweden due to low prices and uncertainty in electricity support. Christian Rynning-Tønssen, Head of State, said the following when this was published: ‘Unfortunately, market developments make it not commercially sound to invest in these projects’. After this publication, we have heard politicians from the Central Party, the Left and the Right in order to put pressure on Statkraft in various ways to get to the expansion. Seriously, where does the ownership notice say that Statekraft will carry out deficit projects? Very familiar does it nowhere. The last time Statkraft was pressured, gas power plants were built on Kårstø, billions of them, which fortunately stand still without polluting anything. State power has made a careful assessment of what is profitable. The price is too low. The uncertainty about the certificate price also does not contribute to making the project profitable. Then I think it is necessary to place the responsibility where it belongs, namely with Energy Minister Tord Lien. I have stated – and I will say that I do – that the energy policy of Tord Lien is ‘the biggest threat to the renewable initiative in Norway’, and that is proved by the decision of Statkraft. Anyone who understands a minimum of how markets work understands that if you have increased electricity production, it will give lower prices if you do not take action to increase demand for electricity. By failing to use the new renewable energy to replace the use of oil, gas and petrol, the electricity price has fallen to a level that makes it impossible for power companies to make investments profitable. Now, the Council of State will probably come up with a long list of all the government's actions – power cables, depreciation rates – but I'm not impressed by measures. I will assess the consequences of the policy being pursued. And my question to the Council of State is, is it an explicit goal to use renewable energy to replace fossil energy? Know in this context that more than half of all energy consumption in Norway is based on fossil energy! This spring, SV presented a proposal in which we said the following: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the notified energy message, to present a plan to replace fossil energy use in Norway with renewable energy sources.’ The government parties voted it down. As long as you don't have a plan to replace fossil fuels with renewables, you'll end up in the situation that renewables are too cheap, and if it gets too cheap, it's not profitable to invest in it. Tord Lien has failed to use renewable energy to electrify the Resira Height from 2017. Now it's going to be 2022, after the impression from Stortinget. No other electrification of existing installations is in the pipeline. There is no plan for the rapid phasing out of fossil cars. We are no more ambitious with government policy, along with the Left and Christian People's Party, today than we were in 2012. Zero emissions in public transport are not in place until 2025. It could have been done before. Land power in ports shall be investigated, but no strong initiatives have been identified. Electricity to replace fossils in industry is not something that Tord Lien and the government have said that they are giving priority to doing something. In addition, as SV has written in a comment in the setting, there is a real risk that there will be too many electricity certificates issued after 2020. It creates a risk of collapsing in the price of the electricity certificate. The fact that the Minister of Oil and Energy has failed to ensure a minimum price of the aid scheme after 2020, despite the uncertainty highlighted by the power industry, shows, in my opinion, a minister who does not listen to the industry’s hazard signals but trusts in his own assessments. There have been dramatic consequences for the Norwegian renewable initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2517	Since that's the power we're going to discuss, I think I'm starting to notice that the power expressions were released in the last speaker. Let me start by reminding you what's the curtain. In the Norwegian power system, as one of two countries in Europe, we have almost 100 pst. clean renewable energy. The fact is that in most of the years we produce more renewable energy than we consume in total in the Norwegian power system, so we are not only in a situation where we have clean, renewable – regulated in all respects – power, we also have the opportunity to help our neighbours in Europe with this force to phase out fossil energy use elsewhere in Europe. Under the EEA Agreement, we have a commitment, made during the last government, to reach a percentage energy use of renewable energy in the total energy consumption of 67.5 pst. It is higher than that of all EU Member States, and it is an objective that we are very well placed to achieve. One of the reasons for this is the introduction of the Green Electricity Certificate system which entered into force on 1 January 2012, after, inter alia, today's two government parties had pushed towards the red-green government for it. The benefits of the electrical certificate system are many. I want to emphasize that technology neutrality is one of them. I would point out that predictability is different, and precisely predictability is why we have today's debate. I want, before I forget it, to thank the rapporteur and the committee for their good work on the matter. The rapporteur said that there are ‘not major changes’. No, these are not major changes that we are now proposing in the certification system itself, together with our Swedish colleagues. It is contrary to the amendments provided for in the binding agreement between Norway and Sweden. It helps to create predictability for the system and the value of certificates in the time ahead, and we have been busy building up and strengthening this predictability in our work together with our colleagues in Sweden. Then the proposition includes more things than what we are obliged to address, something more, among other things. speakers in both the Right and the Advance Party have been involved, for example: to include in the transitional scheme installations with an output of less than 10 MW starting from 1 January 2004. We have – precisely to create the predictability of actors who see that they can complete a plant in 2020, but fear that they will go beyond that date – said that we want to allow plants that come into production after 1 January 2021 to be qualified to participate in the scheme. We have proposed – and will have a majority in favour – to exempt Norwegian oil refineries on Battlentangen and Mongstad from certification obligations. Swedish refineries are not subject to certification, and the overall level of taxes and charges for Norwegian refineries indicates that we need to reduce their burden in terms of public expenditure, in order to survive over time, to get proper conditions of competition over time, compared to installations elsewhere around the North Sea. Then I hear that many people have been concerned about the situation in Sweden. It is quite right – perhaps no one has said it, but I have sometimes said it – that we, the Norwegian Government, were not very concerned about increasing the ambitions of the common Norwegian-Swedish certification system from 26.4 TWh to 28.4 TWh, but based on the fact that over the years we have had a long and trusting and good cooperation with our Swedish colleagues, regardless of what government we have had in Norway – and in Sweden, for that matter – we tried to be present with the new Swedish government. They could have implemented this goal on their own and created exactly the same market challenge without including it in the agreement, so we used the opportunity to negotiate with the Swedes to remove the electricity tax exemption that has previously been applicable to wind power, heavy wind power, in Sweden. We were very concerned about creating more competitive conditions between Norwegian and Swedish large wind power projects. The proposal of the Swedish Government to the Riksdagen went much further than what we have asked for, and I understand that this is what has been the debate in the Swedish word change and among Swedish parliamentarians, not what we have asked for, namely that the electricity tax exemption too much wind power should be removed. So I have noted that the Swedish government has now chosen to withdraw the first proposition and has said that they will return to Riksdag in two different propositions, raising the level of the electricity certification scheme in one case and abolishing the electricity tax exemption in another case. What many, including the case rapporteur, have been pointing out, is that of course it is a prerequisite for the whole agreement that all parts are followed up by both countries. Then it was referred to the energy policy of Tord Lien. Now, Tord Lien doesn't have a private energy policy, even though a lot could suggest this in place. Tord Lien is trying as hard as he can to control the government's energy policy. But that's the way the certification system is set up by the red-green ones, along with Sweden. I am pleased that the red-green parties are essentially ending up with the changes we are discussing today. So we're removing the uncertainty moment for a plant that might have been designed to be completed in October 2020, but will be completed in March 2021. With the regime that existed before we took over, a plant that was completed in March 2021 would not have a single ear in green certificate receipts. The second is that we have helped the Swedish authorities to remove the exemption from the electricity charge for large wind turbines. We have strengthened access for these future producers to the European market and thus strengthened profitability. We have said that we are going to introduce a depreciation system that will result in a five-year depreciation period also on Norwegian wind power projects, which have been carried out in Sweden in recent years, and which have contributed greatly to the fact that a good part of the plants have ended up in Sweden. On a number of points, we have strengthened the situation for the development of renewable energy projects, and therefore there are two things I am pleased about. One is that there is still one in four actors on the Fosen who have said that this project is dead, that they do not want to go further with the project. Therefore, I do not think that the representatives of Storting should declare this project buried. In fact, there are still some forces that work to realize this big project. That it's gotten harder because Statkraft has gone out of it, I don't think anyone should hide on it, but it's still working on it, and it can still be realized. It is claimed that we are not working to replace fossil energy with renewable energy. That's just not right. On the contrary, we have significantly strengthened the instrument that is primarily responsible for facilitating increased use of force in Norwegian society, for example. Enova, who has also taken over all responsibility for electrifying and reducing CO2 emissions from transport. We have worked to replace fossil heat with renewable energy sources, we have strengthened strong efforts to reduce CO2 emissions and improve energy efficiency in industry, which strengthens the competitiveness of industry, and Johan Sverdrup will be supplied with power from land, the largest electrification in Norwegian history – all of this under the leadership of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2549	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2552	I am very pleased with the signals from the Council of State that the project on Fosen and in Snillfjord is not buried, and that it is still possible to realise it. I think that's a good signal from the Council of State. But what worries me is the signals that come from Statnett, that they're a little uncertain about the central network connection. Then I really want to ask the Council of State what he can do. I wonder if he can actively approach Statnett and make sure that they do not make a negative decision next week. Would the Council of State be able to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2559	As the representative Eva Kristin Hansen will be familiar with, the relationship between these entities and the Council of State is governed by the law adopted in Stortinget. So I have noticed that in the spring my department has dealt with an application from Statnett to postpone the launch of a central network from Namsos to Snillfjord and further south to 2028 – until 2028. That signal I think speaks for Statnett's board probably doesn't feel that they're very hasty to scrape this project now. It is true that the supply situation in the South-Trunde Layer is good – at least when Ørskog-Fardal is completed, the supply situation in the South-Trunde Layer will be good – and, like Statnet, we consider it so that this central network line is not in a desperate hurry to get in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2571	I want to thank the Council of State for an interesting answer, but I don't know if it creates the security that people especially want on the Fosen now, so I wonder if the Council of State can say a little about what he can contribute to ensuring that these projects are realized. What does the Council of State think to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2576	As the representative Eva Kristin Hansen is very well known, this is ultimately a commercial assessment. We have gone through the list we have created to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian renewable power projects. We have also worked with Statnett to find good solutions for the development of the network. Of course, it is absolutely necessary to get a good online solution for the projects both at Fosen and in Snillfjord. I believe we had that in place, and as I said, I am not very concerned that Statnett will now make decisions on a power line that the authorities and Statnett believe we do not need to be in place until 2028.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2581	Earlier today, the Committee on Energy and the Environment held an exciting meeting with Statoil, which gave us a brief message about its Hywind project, the pilot project with floating offshore wind installations to be launched outside Scotland. In this context, they also pointed out that the United Kingdom has a different renewable energy support system, where rates are different, depending on the degree of maturity of the technology being used. Here in Norway, we currently have a technology neutral system for an electric certificate. Is it assessed by the Council of State and the Ministry whether we can also move to a graduated scheme as it is in Scotland, and if so, is it open so that such changes can be made within the agreement period with Sweden on the common electricity licence market?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2587	The aid scheme is permanent until 2020. This is one of the things we are going to discuss here in Stortinget in connection with the presentation of the Energy Communication, but it is also the period after 2020 that we are going to discuss. Then we read that we have had great success in our sea win. We have focused on demo, research and development. That makes Statoil, State Power and Peace. Oil Energy is among the largest actors in Europe in sea wind. I would call that a great success. In the case of the United Kingdom, we have clean renewable hydropower that supplies our fantastic power system with the energy we need. In the United Kingdom, nuclear power supplies are becoming increasingly expensive. They have coal power, which results in significant greenhouse gas emissions, and which will become more expensive as carbon emissions become more expensive. So they have a completely different view of the need to subsidize power far heavier than what we have, I have a lot of understanding of that. We don't need to replace our hydropower.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2596	State power's decision not to invest in Fosen has essentially shocked many of us. That is why it is not so strange that part of the debate today is going to be about it. I believe in particular that there is a positive signal from the Council of State regarding Statnet and a line above Fosen. I would like the Council of States to perhaps guarantee that we will not get into discussions about having another line-up through Trøndelag, for that discussion we have had before, and that discussion will only lead us into new rounds where we cannot make decisions, and where there will be conflicts. Now a decision has been made to guide a line through Fozen and down to Snillfjord. Can the Council of States guarantee that we will not be given a different trajectory for the line ahead? That's one of two-part questions. The second is that the capital injection in December was partly justified also in wind power. Will it be considered whether all or part of that capital can be withdrawn? There are different ways to do it, if any.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2603	As the representative Arnstad is well-known, another state council is responsible for the follow-up of the owner to State Power. The sense of reality in describing what was the theme when we discussed the capital injection, I fully share. There was no doubt that part of it was the need for capital to strengthen renewable power production in Norway, and Fosen/Snilfjord was part of that image. But the consequences of this need to be asked the Minister of Industry. In the case of Fosen/Snillfjord, I can only answer no to the question. It's not like we can guarantee that trasé choice. On the contrary, the concession is granted on condition that 1000 MW are realised by the Ola Borten Moe of the Centre Party during the previous period. Then these parks aren't realized, there's no basis for the concession given. New solutions need to be considered for central network development in the region and between the West and North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2610	The Council of State clearly states that the issue of expansion or not on Fosen and other wind power projects, renewable projects, in Norway, is a deep question of what is commercially profitable. Therefore, I am quite surprised that the Council of State has gone over my two main challenges to him, namely, the questions: what does he do with Statkraft saying that the price will be too low in the future to defend investments commercially? What does he do about the uncertainty about the electricity licence price? An overinvestment can be made that could lead to a zero price level, just as the EU licence market, i.e. the CO2 licence market, collapsed in 2007. What does the Council of State intend to do with these two things, which, after all, is the bottom line for whether you get investment or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2620	I'm a little unsure if I've understood the questions. On the one hand, there is concern about over-filling the targets that have been set, and then – and more than that – 26.4 TWh, or 28.4 TWh, which it is likely to be. Then we have delivered on the goal of the scheme. Then you see that investments are made. We see that Statkraft is a great and competent actor. But we see that other actors do not share Statkraft's scepticism into the sum of power price developments and certificate price developments. The certificate scheme has been combined by the red-green government, together with the Swedish government of the time. I believe that I have pointed out a good deal of measures we have taken to improve profitability and to reduce risks during our period of government. But the framework of the scheme is as it was established and adopted by the Storting in the previous period – it is firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2625	I can only confirm my impression, as I also said in my post, that the Council of State is turning the deaf ear to the warnings that there is both a risk of a lower price and a risk of uncertainty about the certification markets. That's why I ask the question – very simple and very clear: Does Tord Lien have any plans to ensure that the price of electricity in Norway can be increased in the future, so that we get more investment? Is there anything the Council of State has a wish for?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2630	Firstly, there has never been so much effort to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian industry as it is now. At the same time, we've given concessions to cables to both the United Kingdom and Germany. Thus, the power-producing industry has access to a stronger market. We have reduced the depreciation period and thus greatly increased the profitability of this type of plant. We also see that investment decisions are actually made. At the latest less than one month ago, TronderEnergy decided to build in the Shoemaker Mountain, with a cost of between 120 and 130 million. kr in investments. It's not insignificant amounts, so we see that things happen. In addition, we focus on both electrifying more transport and using renewable energy sources for heating commercial buildings and dwellings. We've reinforced Enova's work in this area with over 12 billion. - Nearly 13 billion. – kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2635	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2638	The representative Eidsvoll Holmås is not impressed by measures. It might explain why the red-greens didn't do more for renewable energy when they were in government. Norway's prosperity is based on our ability to convert natural resources into values that benefit the community. The history of hydropower serves as a good example. Norway continues to have a significant potential for renewable energy deployment. We have the best wind resources in Europe, we still have large hydropower plants that can be realised, and we have a great potential for small-scale power generation. To trigger this potential, we need to focus on web development. Networks shall be built for between 100 and 120 billion. kr in the following years. This is a huge boost for network companies – and for consumers, we can add – but it could provide a basis for both new value-generating consumption of power and new generation of power. The electricity licence market will contribute to triggering 28.4 TWh by 2021. Whether this is in Sweden or Norway, Norwegian consumers have little role to play. But it plays a major role for Norwegian business, Norwegian technology environments and workplaces in District Norway, where the investment is realised. For this reason, the government has taken a number of steps to ensure that Norway takes a greater share of the increase in renewable production, which has been demanded by the industry for many years, but which is first implemented by this government. The councils mentioned most of them, so I'm not going to go into it. At the same time, the main challenge for new renewable production is that power prices are expected to be low for many years to come. We all had great expectations that Statkraft would contribute to the realisation of Norway's largest wind farm on Fosen. The downturn was therefore great when it became known that the board did not want to make an investment decision. The Fosen project could be the largest single investment in Middle Norway ever. Low power prices are an important part of the rationale of State power. However, the PHOSEN project can be realised. In a time of low interest rates, investors around the world are looking for projects that yield better returns than the bank, at moderate risk. It is also worth noting that TronderEnergy and Agder Energie have different assessments than State power in terms of wind power in Norway. It is therefore far too early to establish that the Fozen is not being realized. At the same time, we will address the serious challenges facing the certification market for power prices in Norway and the Nordic countries. The force has a value only if it can be applied. That's how I evaluate it, three main areas where we can apply more power. Firstly, fossil energy must be replaced by renewable energy in all sectors where this is possible and appropriate. Here a lot already happens that over time will have an effect. Fuelling with fossil oil in households and at the base load in other buildings is prohibited from 2020. The transport sector is in the start-up phase of a large green shift where the electrification of the car fleet is well under way. The first electric buses are operating in Stavanger, and Ruter in Oslo has announced that they want to bet on this technology in the future. All public transport in Norway shall be fossil-free by 2025, in Oslo already by 2020. The first electric ferry, with 85 pst. lower operating costs than the fossil precursor are operating in the West. Shore current phased into larger cities. There is also a high potential for electrification of the coastal fishing fleet. This is a beginning of something that over time will require more power. Electrification of the Utsira height will also contribute. Secondly, everything is now very well suited to the creation of new environmentally friendly industrial production in Norway. A weakened crown, a generous CO2 compensation scheme and a good public contribution to technology development and green innovation provide a good foundation for those who want to invest in Norway together with low power prices. Hydro's new aluminiumworks on Karmøy is a good start. Hopefully, the plans for a new magnesium plant will also be realised on the island of Here Island. In addition, green data centres are now operating as a new industry with a high potential for placing on the market of significant quantities of energy after the government announced that it would reduce the electricity charges for this type of industry. Thirdly, we must bet on inter-national connections. The government has given concession to two new inter-national links, the United Kingdom and Germany, and there may be more in the future. Norway can never become Europe's battery, but we can play a greater role in the power mix in our neighbouring countries. As I said, the force must be applied if it is to have a value. Not asking for a significant increase in renewable energy production if it is not to be used for anything helps. It will only give rise to falling revenues and put the power stations in Norway in a very unusual and demanding situation. Already, we see that incomes are greatly reduced for this industry. No one deserves it. Prices have to be low enough to keep and further develop Norwegian industry, but at the same time they have to be high enough to make it pay to further develop the power industry as an industry in Norway. It is also important that we focus on research, development and demonstration facilities for new renewable energy technologies. Enovas and Innovation Norway’s ability to invest in this has improved significantly during this government, and it will hopefully produce good results. It may also provide good opportunities for offshore suppliers who, during these days, need more bones to stand on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2671	I am very happy and grateful that the government, the Right, the Advance Party and the Cooperation Party have arranged for a scheme to secure green certificates for those power plants that the red-green government with several central party councils failed in 2009, 2011 and 2013. The Green Certificate Transitional Scheme has been a replay in Stortinget in recent years, and there has been a collective opposition to the red-green games all along. The rough lifting pieces from the red-green government boil down both on the small-power builders and on the opposition part here on the Stortinget during the previous superscale period. The situation of a lot of small power plants that didn't get their certificates is that they've had to deal with bad economics. Many have also had problems with liquidity, and several have had to go in with additional own resources to keep operations going. In Sogn and Fjordane we saw a good example of this when the owners of the Sværen power plant were forced to sell their last fall. I want to go into a little bit of history behind the fight for green certificates for small power plants. When Stortinget discussed the scheme of green certificates in 2004, the Energy and Environment Committee of one of the co-ordinators stated: ‘The Committee considers that it is essential that investments in new renewable energy do not stop pending such a market and the Committee considers that all those investing in projects from 1 January 2004 and who will otherwise be awarded a green certificate are granted it.’;» The representatives of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's Committee made the following proposals: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit the necessary legislative proposals for the establishment of a compulsory Norwegian-Swedish certificate market as soon as possible. All installations starting after 2004 and qualifying for it must be eligible under the scheme.» I would also like to refer an e-mail from a Central Party State Secretary in the Ministry of Oil and Energy on 3 March 2008 to a party colleague in the Central Party: ‘Good fellow party. You can take it easy. What has been said by previous government councils and in bigges notification No 11 that installations put into operation after 1.1.2004 should be able to enter the green certificate scheme if they otherwise comply with the requirements. That is our crystal clear position when we enter into negotiations with Sweden on a single market for green certificates. Nor are there any signs from the Swedish team that it is going to cause problems. I have also communicated this to the Small Forces Association today, 3 March. We have great faith that we should be able to agree with the Swedes on a single market for green certificates. We are concerned with predictable and good framework conditions for the development of renewable energy. If we are to achieve our climate goals, we need a strong commitment to renewable energy in the future. Small power is a very central part of this effort. Small power is also an important part of our strategy to build a new, forward-looking energy industry in district Norway. Hope this was elucidating. And that you can now feel confident that your party is still to be trusted." There can be no doubt that all of these are strong promises both from a mass and from red-green politicians. The last case was for handling in Stortinget, on the basis of a document 8 proposal from the Right, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in June 2013. There were no limits to how negative the government party representatives were against the proposal to review the scheme of green certificates for small power builders. The Chairman of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, Erling Sande, said that: "they have not intended to do anything about this scheme even if they were to be given government power to the fall. Then much of the criticism that you have exposed the government falls to the ground. State Council Ola Borten Moe said the following: ‘It is, in my opinion, a worst variety choice bottle, and it places the stability of a whole and important industry at stake.’ Today we have the fasit. The Government Party and the Cooperation Party will have a system in place to bring 240 small-scale power plants into the scheme of green certificates, and there is no doubt that the Government Party and the Cooperation Party have delivered with the intention of correcting the gross lifting fractions of the Red-Green Government. Today, the same parties also ensure that we correct the gross lifting fractions against those power plants that are over 10 MW, and I am delighted to say that the Right will vote for the submitted loose proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2720	In the left, we are pleased with these two issues from the government and are largely in agreement, which are also a large part of the committee, but we put a proper question mark on the change that makes refineries release electrical certificates, which are well to go a little far. But what is important here is that we are now strengthening the commitment to renewable energy, and that we are facilitating investment in green certificates, not just in Sweden, but that there will also be increased efforts towards Norway. As far as wind power is concerned, we have worked a long time to change the depreciation rules so that they are in Sweden and that we also get flexibility towards 2020. But then it turns out that this isn't enough, because you also have the situation with Statkraft and Fozen. What's important is that we have to assume that prices are low, and what we need to reinforce now is to use the extra renewable energy that we have. We have to use it more effectively than we have now. There are then four areas, one where, as several have said, we need to reduce emissions in Norway by applying the force. The transport sector may be the most difficult area, but it is an area in which we need to make great progress in achieving the targets we have set, with emission reductions up to 2030. I think it's important that we not only look at this as difficult, but also as a great opportunity for Norway, not least in shipping, in developing the new technology, that we can also take steps to be ahead and an example internationally, but that this can also be exploited by Norwegian business. So that's what we have to deal with more, and we'll soon make important decisions about electrification of the socket. We are faced with a decision on Johan Sverdrup, which is important. For the Left, it is important to consider whether this can be done to a greater extent in the years ahead. We also need power cables abroad, so we're part of a European solution. We must also bear in mind that the fact that we now have a lot of renewable energy is an opportunity for Norwegian industry, both for traditional Norwegian industry and for new areas, as has been mentioned here, for example. the green data centres. When it comes to politics, it is important not only to say what you mean, but also to do what you say, and to the Left, this has also been a matter of cleaning up what has been a promise that dates back to 2004. It is important that we now get the power plants that are less than 10 MW into the electricity certificates, which was a clear measure at the time. In the left we have to go all the way, so we have together with the Christian People's Party put in a proposal that it is also the more than 10 MW that are covered by the same pronounced policy from then on. I'm very glad that now it can look like we can get a majority for that proposal, so that chapter can be left behind, and we've been studying a political promise and a political commitment that's been going on for years. So finally, it's clear that one thing is to get more renewable energy produced in Scandinavia, in Norway and Sweden. So let's do that with the green certificates. But the situation we now have on the Fozen shows that there are cuttings in the sea that we now have to deal with. It is important for us that we look not only at the volumes, but also at how we develop new technologies within the renewable industry, and not least in the situation we are in now, to facilitate the launch of the pilot project within what is sea wind, what is wave power, what is tide. If it is one time that is important to get this going, it has to be now, and we have to build a framework around these fields that will enable them to be realised – not necessarily because we need more renewable energy in Norway, here we are getting a surplus of power, but in order to develop a new technology and also opportunities and a market for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2734	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2737	In all its articles and replies to replies here, the Council of State has done everything but give the impression that we are in a serious situation. On the contrary, he has said that there are others who invest, even though Statkraft does not. I deeply disagree with the Council of State on this. I believe that we are in a serious situation for the renewal effort in Norway, by the fact that Statekraft is now saying that the Fosen is being scrapped. The reason, as I said in my article, is that they expect prices to be low in time. On my own account I would say: I see nothing in what the Council of State says, which shows an ambition to use the force to a greater extent than today and to replace fossil energy. Nor will we be able to see an increase in the price, which will make several Norwegian renewable investments profitable. I'm sorry. I regret it primarily on behalf of the climate – because it has been important for the climate to phase out fossil energy use, which accounts for more than half of all energy use in Norway, and it will be important to use the new renewable energy to replace it. That I would say was the whole reason that at least my party, and I would also assume the center parties and several other parties, were busy putting in place the new green certificates: the force would be used to replace fossil energy. We see nothing of that, and it is confirmed by the fact that the government parties are voting against the proposal that an energy notification plan be made to use the power to replace the fossil energy. The second thing I want to point out is that the Council of State says he's doing the best he can to keep the government's policy. Well, then he manages either incredibly poorly to conduct a good policy, or then he succeeds very well in pursuing a bad policy. Because the result is the lack of investment, and that's what we're concerned about. I'm glad that Nikolai Astrup mentioned a bunch of measures, all of which were started under the red-green government. Both the measures initiated by power cables abroad — the planning began during our government, the concession was granted by this government — and the decision on green certificates was made under our government. The decisions relating to the ambitions we have for emissions from cars were taken in 2012 in connection with the climate agreement. I have to say that I think the proposal that has been made, which is adopted by the government parties and the centre parties, is far too little ambitious, when they stick to the same ambitions that we had in 2012. They should be much more ambitious. SV has entered that nine out of ten cars should be fossil-free. I'm disappointed in the council. I think the energy industry is the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2748	I couldn't let go of the word. There are two things in particular that I want to say something about. The first is the evolution of what is happening on the Fozen, and the State power that has said no to expand. I think it's deeply tragic. I had really hoped that something would happen. I would like to pay tribute to the representatives of Astrup and Elvestuen and to my other non-socialist colleagues, who are offensive, who are clear about what has happened, what has been done, and what is wanted to put the force into action – for the keyword ‘put the force into action’ is what we are calling for over and over again. For example, we who were on the Energy and Environment Committee in the previous period experienced this. At the end of the period that when I had an interpellation with the councillor Borten Moe and asked a question about how to use the force, he put the script down, went up and was upset about the problem. That's what this is all about. When we produce more renewable energy, we also have to apply the force. Because, as Mr Astrup said, one has to find the balance of the price. That is why I am pleased that he also stresses the measures that the government is taking and that he wants. I would also like to stress, like many others, what I had interpellation about here not long ago: Green data centres are a giant industry that will grow enormously, and we have great opportunities to locate several of the data centres in Norway. A 100 MW data centre might charge up to 1 TWh, and that would mean a huge amount, even in order to increase production. The second is that I think the representative Lødemel had an excellent post in which he described the story of the electric certificates. I also sat here today and read through the debate on the proposal for a representative that we had here in June 2013, and the ‘whaling bottle of worst variety’ was an expression that was used. I remember myself stressing that I felt as a moral responsibility for the Storting to correct the injustice that had been committed against those who at the then State Council Steensnæs and my own party's word, or the Word of Storting, had invested – even if it looked like it was pushed out with the electricity certificates – because we wanted the investments to come. And then we chose not to involve them in the scheme anyway. That's why I want to give a big tribute to the government and to the Council of State for doing the job that they've done, and a great reward to the representatives of Lødemel and Grimstad, who I know have been pushing hard to get it done. That, together today, we also include more than 10 MW through this proposal, I think the Storting is worth it. We then expressed that it was demanding to get to, we know that there are some challenges to what we are doing today, but we also know that for the individuals who made investments on promises from the Council of State and from the Storting, there are some who have already gone successful. Some people have had major challenges, and now we're at least giving them a greater chance to make progress. I am pleased with the decisions we are making today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2759	Let me first thank both the representative, Mr Ropstad and the representative, for their excellent contributions on this extension of the transitional regime. I heard the representative Eidsvoll Holmås say that this is a serious situation. So we're talking about the fact that one, big enough, actor has said no to deploy a plant. Of course, it is demanding for those who have worked over the years to realize that project, but when the situation is described as serious, I want to remember what I started with: We have a power supply in Norway that is 100 pst. renewable-based. This is how the previous government presented the Stortinget with a measure of 67.5 pst. renewable energy in total energy consumption under the EEA Agreement, i.e. in mainland Norway. We're very good at reaching that goal, among other things. due to heavy renewable energy use in the heating of houses, phase-out of oil firing, electrification of transport and increased renewable power generation. To the serious situation: this government is well placed to achieve – probably in good time before 2020 – the objectives that the red-green government sent to the Stortinget, which were endorsed by a broad majority in the Grand Duchy. I think the committee leader Elvesuen made a good point of what the government is working with our support parties. I also want, before I forget it, to thank both the supporting parties and the other parties that are making sure that we have a large majority behind everything we have put forward today. We're working on electrifying transport. The Johan Sverdrup expansion is going to be the largest power-from-land solution ever. That the representative Eidsvoll Holmås is standing here and is upset that the other fields in Utsira are not electrified from 2017 when there are development permits granted during his reign, it is alarming. We are facilitating the export of power to some of the most coal-fired economies in the world – the United Kingdom and Germany. It's not just good climate policy, it's also insanely profitable power policy. We are making it possible for the industry in Norway to grow, become more climate friendly, more energy efficient and more profitable in the future. We are making it possible for the new industries – such as the data centre industry, an insanely profitable industry, that is the industry of the future – to get better conditions in Norway. We must not forget that when we have low prices in the Norwegian-Swedish market, both coal and nuclear power are phased out faster than it would otherwise have been.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2770	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2784	This case concerns the submission by the Ombudsman’s defence department of the activities from 1 January to 31 December 2014. The Ombudsman’s defence title shall, following the instructions adopted by the Grand Duchy of Great Britain, contribute to ensuring the general human rights of the defence personnel. The activities of the Ombudsman shall also contribute to the effectiveness of defence. As part of the function of the Ombudsman, five inspections were carried out by the Ombudsman in 2014 and the following were carried out: War School of Army at Linderud in Oslo Air Force School Centre at Kjevik by Kristiansand 139 Luftving / Bardufoss Air Station in Målselv 131 Luftving / Air Force Station in Sørreisa Hans Majestet Kongens Garde at Huseby in Oslo The Committee has noted that the Ombudsman’s views have been very positive. They have experienced good managers with clear attitudes, a strong willingness to work and a good working environment. This was particularly demonstrated by the trustees of the departments, both employees and guardians. It is very gratifying to hear about both good management and good work environment, as these are the main prerequisites for producing good services. For 2014, the Ombudsman has identified five areas which will give particular attention to: One is property, construction and construction, or EBA, which is often referred to as a collective term. In some central installations, the building mass continues to be experienced as worn-out and inappropriate, which, in turn, is a heavy burden for the personnel using the buildings in question. However, a number of required modernisations have been made in the case of cablings, fairs, etc. On the part of the Committee, it is assumed that the defence will remain under pressure in this area. Another theme is the introduction of a general protection obligation from 2015. In order to succeed, there is a need for additional efforts, as in several establishments there are congestion and also significant gaps. There are several closet rooms, wardrobes and sanitary rooms that have to be arranged so that both sexes have satisfactory living conditions. Some temporary adjustments have been made, but it goes without saying that this is not a sustainable situation in the long run. Another aspect is the provision of equipment adapted to women, both for personal clothing and equipment. The Committee expects the defence to follow up on this. Still changes in the defence complicate recruitment, especially by skills-requiring personnel. The Committee is concerned about this, especially because the defence uses advanced weapon systems for which it takes a long time to train and upgrade personnel. The Committee therefore assumes that measures are taken to maintain critically important personnel specifically trained to ensure the defence weapon systems. The Committee has noted that the Ministry of Defence has decided to launch the clean-up service on a competitive basis. The Committee assumes that the rights of its servants are properly safeguarded by the defence when this task is transferred to others. Like the Ombudsman, the Committee would point out that the competitive outsourcing of this service can address some security challenges, particularly in the case of vulnerable sites. It is therefore assumed that this will be given special attention in the planning of the competitive environment. In the past, the Ombudsman has pointed to various weaknesses in the treatment and support of our veterans. In the 2014 reporting, this theme is highlighted, and I quote: ‘The Ombudsman’s subject is pleased with the considerable work being constantly strengthened, and that as a nation, we are increasingly recognising the important work done and done by Norwegian personnel. The last action plan shows a number of significant points and mechanisms that contribute to increasing the attention and awareness of veterans and their environment.’ I find it appropriate to give honor to the Defense for having taken hold of this area, so that we now see an improvement in the work of caring for our veterans. As a final point, I would like to dwell on the work on security clearance of defence personnel. In addition to the Ombudsman’s mention of this as one of his focus themes in his annual report, the Ombudsman’s task was specifically attributed to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee in his own letter. Between 8000 and 9000 women and men serve the first service of defence. Of the tasks to be carried out, approx. 90 pst. of such a nature that the personnel required to carry them out must be cleared for safety. In the case of soldiers with dual citizenship and soldiers with parents of foreign origin, it has long been a problem to clear them up. Collecting data from abroad is a problem, and especially from nations we do not cooperate with. But even for ethnic Norwegians, there are today problems related to the time it takes to obtain security clearance. For orders that have lost the security clearance, the problem is even greater if possible. In the meantime, they are not allowed to carry out the tasks they are employed to do. Any person may imagine the load on the personnel and a slow safety clearance may have a negative impact on the general breakdown of the protection obligation. This in itself is serious. Once the Ombudsman’s defence subject has received a complaint from several officers who lost their clearance in 2013 and who have still not received a final decision, there is something completely wrong with this service. The Committee refers to the fact that the defence Ombudsman has raised this matter on several occasions with the National Safety Authority and the Defence Security Department, without having resulted in a significant improvement in the duration of proceedings. As this has been a recurring issue, last year the Committee asked the Ombudsman to report on developments in the security clearance of personnel, and it is discouraging that this year, too, the Committee has to report that there has been no significant improvement in this situation. It is now the Information and Security Committee, EOS, which is dealing with complaints concerning security clearance, that is why I also refer to the next case with similar comments on security clearance, in the setting of Document 7:1, which concerns the Annual Report of the EOS Committee for 2014 and which addresses the same issue of security clearance as in this case. The Committee now expects the issue of security clearance to be addressed seriously and the provision of sufficient capacity for NSM and the FSA, possibly providing other improvement measures to ensure that the work on security clearance of soldiers and defence personnel is done in a good and rational manner. A review of how other safety authorities perform this type of service should also be included. Today's service, it can't go on. I refer you to the Committee's comments and attitude, and I recommend this committee's unanimous vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2850	As is very clear from the rapporteur's good review of the vote, it is unanimous on all points and, in the Committee's discussions, there have been no views other than those expressed in the comments. I would just like to comment briefly on a few points that the rapporteur also made in a full way. But let me first say that it is the committee's opinion that the message from the Ombudsman's department this time is very good. It's very worked through, it's very systematic, and it gives us a good insight into what's good, and what's not good from the Ombudsman's point of view. I want to say that, because we're not always careful to say things like that, but I'm doing it now. I see that the Ombudsman is here, so he can hear it directly. It is also worth noting that the rapporteur was very clear about, that there is a lot that works well. In particular, it is very gratifying for the committee to record that the leadership culture in the defence has improved – I think I allow myself to say so – at least over time, and that the management culture is now more in line with what is the modern understanding of how management is to be carried out, and it is confirmed by the Ombudsman’s subject. I remember a few years ago when this was one of the big appeal points. It's pretty much completely gone, it's supposed to be the defense of, and it's nice in every way. So I'd say -- this is of course a big challenge for the government in many ways, and would be it no matter who was in government, so this has nothing to do with it -- that once we have adopted a general duty of protection, as the rapporteur said, and we have to bring women into the defense, then the defense has to adapt it. It's a big project, that goes from what's in the setting here – that's about toilet conditions, wardrobe conditions and the kind of thing, that's natural, but that's currently very provisional in many places, it can't last long – to the adaptation of weapons, uniforms and all the other equipment. This, of course, the government has to put a lot of pressure on it, and I expect the Council of State might also come up with this when she gets the word a little later. I know that this was said by the case rapporteur, but I'm just repeating it. So I'm just saying one sentence, to both the two state councils that are present, and it's that I think it's exhaustive to say that it's a legal security problem that we have so long waiting time for security clearance. Now we have both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Justice here, and that's good, because then they hear this very clearly. Of course, they know this very well from before, they know the problem. It's probably that there might be good arguments that it takes time, too – I don't want to say that that can't be the case, because there may be a lot of security challenges that it's hard to deal with and that necessarily take time, but it can't start taking longer than it did before, as it happens here. That is what the Committee's and the Ombudsman's point of view is, and what the Civil Ombudsman, as the rapporteur rightly said, is also in his position on the Stortinget. That's why we address it very clearly. We have to deal with this, because it is a legal security problem that soldiers who have the right to carry out the duty of protection may not get it because they have to wait so long for security clearance that they can't do it, and even worse so by command or others, of course, who can't exercise their profession because it takes too long. I think we totally agree on that, but it's very nice that it's handled. Finally, I just want to mention something that it is very natural for me to mention, and that the committee also agrees – but that's another thing, so I'm not taking it up now on this occasion – and that's what's associated with all the washing in the defense being exposed to competition. I simply ask the Council of State to be aware of what is said both from the Ombudsman's point of view and in the unanimous position of the Committee, that we assume that the rules of business transfer are followed, so that we do not get social dumping linked to the services of defence, which of course is a large industry, with so many square metres. There we have to make sure that we do not get into a working culture that goes beyond the workers and that in the next round will go beyond safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2865	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Ombudsman for a good report – on which both the case rapporteur and the committee chairman were involved – and for a good attitude and a good presentation by the case-rapporteur. I'm going to get into two areas in particular, but still address a point that both addressed in their posts. That's the question of clean-up in the defense. Today we have expenses of approx. 300 million. kr in the year of clean-up in the defence sector. There's a lot of money, and we're always looking to spend our money in the most reasonable way possible. We have therefore said that defence construction should no longer have a monopoly on the provision of these services. At the same time, we have assumed that it is a business transfer. The rules must be followed. So the question of security clearance has also been mentioned here. It is quite obvious that the personnel required to wash the premises of the Defence Department must have security clearance. It's solid, just like it's done before. It is clear from the Ombudsman’s report that both good managers, clear attitudes and a high level of willingness to work and a good working environment are experienced by the rapporteur. It's good to know that this is something that comes from more teams, that is. both from the trustees and from employees and guardians. However, the report also addresses unfortunate matters. I will briefly mention the two most important now. Both the Ombudsman’s own and the EOS Committee’s annual reports address challenges related to the security clearance of specific young people to serve first-time services. Almost all the positions held by young people in the first-time service have gradually become so heavy in military matters that it requires security clearance. Almost 90 pst. all tasks require security clearance. Here you're facing a little dilemma. In earlier times it was not so, but it has been a point for alternate governments to make the initial service more relevant, with a greater military content. As a result, many of the tasks to be undertaken require security clearance, including access to information, work tasks, weapons training and training that require security clearance. However, this has resulted in a significant amount of business for our clearing authorities. I come back in more detail to both the status and the measures related to clearing in my next post, in the context of the annual report of the EOS Committee. I think it would be better to take it in full width there. However, I just want to mention here that this is something we're working on, with a lot of pressure. It is an objective that the defence should reflect society, and it is important that we recruit young people with a variety of backgrounds. However, the challenge is that the security clearance of persons associated with other countries is very complex and time consuming for the clearing authority. In some cases, the degree of connection and the safety significance of the country in question will also mean that safety clearance cannot be provided. As the chairman of the committee was aware, it is particularly related to collecting information from other countries that are often both difficult and very time consuming. This means that matters take a disproportionate amount of time. Last year – as the Committee is aware – over 1000 people with relations with Norway did not have safety cooperation with, letters from the Defence Personnel and Protection Centre that they were exempted from military service in peacetime. So there were new routines introduced by the Defense. In this respect, the defense did not make any assessment of each individual and individual. When this became known, I immediately ordered the defense to ensure the individual processing of the clearance requests and to start the safety clearance process earlier. Among other things, the young people who had received this letter received a new letter afterwards, where they offered, of course, an individual assessment. As you have also seen in the media in the last few days, there is now a small group of about 25 to 30 people who have landed a little between all the chairs. They had received a letter that clearly appeared as a summons — it had the title ‘You are called to first-time service’. There was nothing about a condition of safety clearance, there was something about a certificate of good conduct. These are young people who had a legitimate belief that they were called in for the first time service and were going to meet for the first time service, among other things. in Gardeleiren, in July 2015. What is important here is that there has been an error in the defense. I'm sorry about that. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In the last few days, almost everyone has been contacted by telephone. Of course, they need to be moved forward in the queue for safety clearance. These are young people who had not applied for either education or work, because they had a clear understanding that they were called in for the first time. Of course it shouldn't be like that. Therefore, the defense has worked very hard in the last few days to get hold of these. In addition, we have been concerned that the defence must design these letters in a different way. One is that it has to be clear that there are some conditions in order to serve first-time services, including security clearance. The second is that for the future we also have to make sure that we write in the letters that in parallel with this process you have to apply for studies and work in the usual way, in case you are not called for first-time work, and so that you do not stand on a bar, as any of these have become. It's important that we do something about it. The defence, following the changes they made last autumn, has also reviewed how the safety clearance process can be carried out in a more flexible manner. This means that it is now being sought to clarify this with security clearance at the presence of first-time services. In order to meet this, the necessary security clearance process will start, at a much earlier stage, as an integral part of the session mechanism. It shall provide predictability. What is a point in this context is that, from the fall of the year, a pilot project is launched at the Kjevik Recruitment School to ensure that the safety clearance process is much faster and in parallel with other processes, so that, when it comes to being able to move in, you are also cleared for safety, or you have not been cleared if there is no basis for it. 1 January 2015 marked the beginning of what I want to call a historical social reform. The protection of the country's interests, values and territory now applies to all Norwegian citizens, whether they be men or women. The work of ensuring that defence is prepared to accept vulnerable women and men when they meet for service in the summer of 2016 is well under way, but there are still challenges. The first phase of the session process has already been completed for the 1997 coal. And I'm glad to announce that there has never been a higher proportion of women than now - 37 pst. women on session part 1. Women have, as we know, served in the Defense for a very long time, so this is nothing new. But it is quite obvious that when you are now working to improve your gender balance and bring in more women for operational reasons, it also needs to be facilitated. The defence now focuses on five areas: communication of competence requirements and selection criteria property, construction and facilities personal clothing and equipment organisational culture and management These are all important issues that the Defense is working on a lot to make sure that we are ready to accept, as intended. So I just want to end by saying that over the last couple and three years, we've had a lot of good experience in many departments of Defence using common space. It might sound a little funny, but it's actually something that's done, among other things. On the one hand, there is less gender discrimination in defence because of the fact that there are very similar conditions. You experience less harassment. It's very positive. There's also a lot of research on it, and we're using the research results to explore this further. I think it's an exciting way to work. There is also something that has been shown to work well at very different departments. It is completely voluntary – no one is forced – but for those who choose to do it, it has worked very well. It's one of the things that we can build on in the work of making the defense clear for the indentation of more women.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2921	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2936	Our common security is our common task to ensure. That is why the people's own assembly has decided that there should be someone there with a mandate to do just that. There should be someone there to see what we don't see, so we can avoid what we don't want to imagine. Democracy depends on real trust and trust in the work of secret services. They contribute to this even with the good dialogue they provide, and fortunately doing as the EOS Committee reports again, to facilitate control – not on a case-by-case basis, but on a general basis. This annual report from the EOS Committee also shows that the EOS Committee itself contributes to this, and it shows the importance of the sample. Societies that have secret services to safeguard citizens' security and freedom need to provide the EOS services with a stable and verifiable framework to operate from and in addition to an operational control committee that ensures that the mandate and methods are followed. It's Norway. The term of office of the EOS Committee is, in accordance with the first paragraph of Section 2 of the Control Act, that they must: ‘1. clarify and prevent any wrongs being committed against any, including ensuring that no more intervention is used than is necessary in the circumstances and that the services respect human rights. 2. ensure that the activities do not unduly harm society, and 3. ensure that the activities are carried out in the framework of legal, administrative or military directives and unlawful law.» Today, Stortinget deals with the annual report of the EOS Committee. I will present the Committee's comments on it in a moment, but even the Storting cannot debate matters in a vacuum. Democracy also depends on freedom of expression and source protection. Therefore, I must say that the matter of confiscating the material of a film maker, which the PST carried out here during the day, bears witness to a democratic compass in the secret services that require a new battery. I would refer to the Committee's comments, which are slim compared to the annual report. For this reason, I would like to stress that the wording used by the Committee that the Committee adheres to the evaluations, considerations and recommendations of the sample should be read and understood in a literal and comprehensive way. This year, the EOS Committee has carried out 25 inspections, and I would say it's a positive move that a sample that works so thoroughly and has such a good overview of the secret services' exercise of the mission has not found any reason for unannounced inspections. On the other hand, the committee has spent a lot of time on complaints. Many of them are linked to security clearance, which still takes disproportionately long. It's happening to us as a society, but it's happening to individuals the hardest – as we've been up to in the past. The fact that a systematic inertia looked to the degrees with serious consequences for the individual is serious. In addition, there is a paradox that these are people waiting to be allowed to give their service to the community. The Committee has highlighted this point in particular. In 2013, the sample stated that the situation was worrying. And then we get a report for 2014 saying that the situation is getting worse. Much of this is due to the introduction of a new clearing system, called Mimir, and the lack of staff resources. The last time we discussed the matter, the committee said that we expected this to be settled. Saying it again is strange, all the time we've got a new report saying that the situation has been getting worse since the last time we expected it. We're doing it this year, too, but we're going to stress that that expectation needs to be met this time. There I must add that after hearing the State Council Eriksen Soreide's contributions, I have strengthened the confidence that it will happen, and I look forward to her next article, which is the announcement will go into this. The committee has raised some issues on the basis of critical reports in the public debate. It is a health sign that the sample works as it should – regularly controlling but also helping to provide the answers that the public needs to rest on, that the model we have chosen and the mandate given to the secret services is correct and respected. That form of work must continue. If major issues are raised that require more resources than the EOS Committee has available, we need to facilitate, as a matter of urgency, that, on major issues that require large resources, the EOS Committee provides the opportunity to address the issues of the appropriations needed. The Committee is pleased that the issues examined do not prove to be of concern and that the EOS Committee will continue to verify the legality of the use of false base stations. On the basis of the establishment of the external evaluation of the EOS Committee, Stortinget was asked to promote a legislative proposal to exempt professional secrecy. This is now in place, and I want to say from this pulpit that I am sorry that the technicalities have lost much of the sample's measured resources. Services report a complex and complex threat image. Prevention of the involvement of persons in terrorism is a priority and increased intelligence pressure on Norway is reported. This requires information management by services. We have, last year, gone through a major constitutional change, and I want to refer to the one constitutional change that was made last year, and as the EOS Committee also mentions, Section 102, on the right to privacy. There, Stortinget states in the form of a note that technology development is a good thing, but that it requires more of us. It also applies to the EOS service. For this reason, the Committee considers it important that the Storting should provide a clear material and process basis. The sample reports that they are aware of the trends affecting control and that they follow developments closely. It has confidence in the selection process and is pleased that the Secretariat has been strengthened with social and technical competence, which are the keys to solving the tasks that we have set up the EOS Committee to do. There has been a recurring discussion about the use and registration in the Smart work register. The term ‘not in Smart’ has been used as a separate category for persons who were not created as objects. I don't want to go into characterizing how unfortunate this is, but the committee joins the committee's points of reference and shares their view that it is positive that the PST has found a technical solution that safeguards privacy. When it comes to the use of DocuLive, the Committee believes that current practice is problematic. The fact that the PST does not have a regime for blocking information that is no longer relevant to the service means that the current practice of processing personal data in meeting reports in DocuLive is not satisfactory. I would like to point out that the PST has addressed the Ministry of Justice and Defence to find out how to read the relationship between the record keeping obligation and the erasure rules of the Police Register Act. The Committee is pleased that the sample will continue to monitor the processing of data by PST within the archives and registers. The committee has pointed out that the PST should try to clarify how foreign collaborative services have acquired information about Norway. I'd like to repeat from this pulpit that it's Storting's clear expectation. When it comes to the exchange of information with foreign services, I would like to refer to the sample's expressed concern about the lack of notority of the assessments on which the PST information sharing is based, because an increasing number of persons have been registered here in the database belonging to the Terrorist Screening Center, TSC. Twice as many Norwegian nationals were in the register in 2014 as in 2013 – and we have not reported them there ourselves. The PST informs the sample that they have registered only a few of the persons there. The services have addressed this with the FBI without having received any additional answers. This also applies to the Ministry's enquiries to the U.S. authorities on the subject. Questions have been raised about who has registered the information, who is the end-user, and the possible consequences of the fact that the information is in the system. The answers to these questions should be requested from the Ministry if they have not already arrived. On a case-by-case basis, the sample raised the question of the home address for the provision of information from the customs system TVINN from the Customs and Charges Directorate, TAD, to the PST. That matter was about a parcel delivery to an individual. The EOS Committee states that it may appear that the PST has used TAD as an information source outside the PST own homes. Translated into Norwegian, this means that they have carried out a secret search without permission. The size gives homes, and we're dependent on them being followed, especially in meetings with individuals. I want to express my hope that this is not an example of a culture. In the light of the case that is relevant in these days, I hope that the department will make sure to investigate that it is not an example of a culture. The committee states that it awaits the conclusion of the Storting on the fundamental issue of the provisions on the right of access to the law and instructions of the sample shall be fully applicable to the intelligence service, or whether the 1999 decision of the Stortinge shall be maintained. The Committee refers to the evaluation of the mandate and tools of the EOS Committee and will consider this when the evaluation is ready. The committee has also pointed to the need for some changes to the Control Act and the control instructions in Chapter 8 of the Annual Report. The Committee understands the reasons why the committee believes that this amendment of the law needs to be put in place, and members of the Committee will submit proposals for a representative on that amendment. Finally, I refer you to the comments in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e2985	The EOS Committee shall keep the secret services under constant control. It is a central task for the sample to verify that the EOS services do not commit any injustice against the individual. It shall ensure that services work within the framework of laws, regulations and instructions, in accordance with human rights. There is a clear need for international legislation to protect citizens' privacy from unlawful State and private surveillance. There is also a clear need for enhanced international cooperation between governmental bodies to control their secret services. We know that the EOS Committee has taken initiatives in different ways to just get this done. International cooperation between secret services is cross-border, while national controls are limited. This underlines the importance of transparency of intelligence activities and clear legislation for national services. We note with satisfaction that the sample conducts routine monitoring of the information exchange of services with collaborative services, while being careful to comply with the control directive’s requirements to ensure that, as far as possible, consideration is given to the protection of sources and the protection of data received from abroad. There is little doubt that audits by the EOS Committee have contributed to ensuring legal certainty for individuals. This also strengthens people's confidence in the e-services operating within their legal framework. It is important that we be able to trust that services are controlled. In this way, the sample does a good job. We record that the 2014 sample has received a significant number of more complaints than in previous years. From the Christian People's Party we are also positive that the sample has created matters on its own initiative. We record that long processing times in clearing cases create a great deal of uncertainty, and this also leads to disproportionate intervention in the lives of individuals by the authorities. It is worrying that conditions are as they are, and we require action to be taken to clean up this particular situation. Due to increasing workload, it has been necessary to make more resources available to the sample. Strengthening the Secretariat has been necessary, which in turn has led to improved preparation of inspections. Several issues have been addressed on their own initiative, and the sample has been able to work more in-depth on some projects, such as: has led to fewer specific messages for Stortinget. It is necessary to further strengthen the Secretariat in the years to come. Otherwise, we will show that the Presidency of the Grand Duchy has set up a selection to evaluate the work of the EOS Committee and the legal framework within which it works. The mandate was extended following the involvement of the Control and Constitutional Committee, as well as the structure of cooperation between the EOS Committee and the secret services, including in particular: the question of how to ensure democratic control of the surveillance of Norwegian citizens by foreign countries was included in the mandate. It is important that this work now becomes a priority. There is reason to express satisfaction with the work carried out by the sample. From the Christian People's Party's point of view, we welcome the fact that the E-service is generally concerned with displaying transparency and trust through its briefing and facilitating the control of the sample. It is necessary to stress the importance of making the checks possible without the self-control being determined by the scope of the checks. Otherwise, I refer you to the rapporteur's presentation of the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3008	The EOS Committee has provided the Committee with a very thorough, comprehensive and, in my best opinion, a good report of the year, and, at least, the case-speaker's observations are not quantitatively seen in any reasonable way in relation to the contents of the annual report. It may be an expression – and I think it is – that we see from the committee that a very good work is being done, and that the EOS selection is a living selection that has had many important things that it has partly taken up on its own initiative and that have come in other ways in recent times. It also arouses little interest in this debate. I also think there is an expression that the EOS selection is doing a lot of good work, and I'm going to end up with some thorough and good comments from the case spokesman. However, I would like to mention a few items, which may have more implications for development in this field. The first is that we have, I say, two conflicting trends that I believe lead to greater attention and perhaps more contentious debates on the field of surveillance. On the one hand, we have more attention – and I perceive excitement – about privacy and the value of it and greater insight into the challenges here. On the other hand, we have quite clear, I believe, the desire to strengthen surveillance and intelligence, not least in a given security policy situation. In that border country, we may also expect more conflicts, challenges and more debates on the balances of the years to come, and I think we also have to count on this home. We've seen an example of that in the last year, a couple of the issues mentioned in the Annual Report, the late date for a case that got a lot of attention in winter. And so in the last few days, we've seen a case we just don't know the reason for, and that's part of a trial, but it's important to note, and I have to say that I challenge the limits of freedom of expression, that PST goes to a raid without a prior legal decision, and seize material that can be covered by the source protection. The second element that I think is challenging – that was the representative of Gruvan inside – is that we get an internationalization of this field, which has actually gone on a long time ago, and not least where all digital traffic is entirely part of the same network, while we have very close contractual and full-fledged cooperation. I think there is a debate that is necessary to travel, how we can get more international cooperation and regulation of this important area. The third point I want to raise is that I see, precisely in the light of the two points here and the rather extensive activity – the good reason – that the EOS selection has, that the resource situation of the selection will be important to follow up. The case coordinator raised important questions about the possibilities of the selection being given to work. But also what resources they have are themes that we will follow up on the SV side and that the Committee should follow up on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3019	This article will fall into three parts – first a comment on the Committee setting, which, despite a unanimous opening around the comments, also deserves some deepening. I can agree with the supplementary statement that our permanent case rapporteur for the EOS Committee had, and would just say that we agree from the Right that a very central point to build trust is that what is going on in the monitoring process is grounded, and that you stay within the limits set by this hall through the law. Then I will also join in what was said about the processing time in classification matters, and that otherwise the annual report has pointed to the need for changes in the control law and the control instructions. Then I can also inform you that the Right will be in a positive position to respond to the proposals made by the EOS Committee. We regard them as factually justified and primarily of a technical nature. As for international developments, at the end of May I had the opportunity to attend an interparliamentary conference in Brussels. Normally it's the EEA that brings us there, but this time it was EOS. There was an exchange of experience between European parliaments on how to ensure full democratic control with something by definition hidden. We recognized each other's working conditions and efforts to bring services under democratic control, but very different organisational forms were chosen. We are also told that Norway was among the few who had chosen this scheme, with a sample reporting directly to the national Parliament. There were some who probably found it safest that such control authorities report best to governments, who are better off keeping secrets than national parliaments, but then, of course, is a very obvious counter-argument that the government is also very closely interwoven with the executive. So there was a number of interest in the Norwegian model in this context. And of course, there were also objections that maybe you weren't so sincere to a national parliament that there were very general reports that couldn't really provide full information. But that's where we can answer that the EOS Committee, which is made up of people with a social background, insight and not least integrity, who, on behalf of the usual and official control mechanisms we know, such as transparency, searchability and a wake-up press, in these questions are given our confidence to peer these services into the cards and report back in a way that does not compromise the services, their methods or employees. You can also say, after many years of business with this model, that the Storting has never had reason to express disappointment at the way the EOS Committee has worked. So it is a compliment to the people who have been sitting up over the years in these very important positions and have done an important job for Parliament – in our country, the Stortinget – and for democracy. So all the legal states are in the same dilemma: how are we to combat hidden threats to the state using instruments that cannot be reported continuously in real time – as it is now called – without undermining the purpose of the work? The third thing I would like to mention in this little post is what the control function of the EOS committee should be. They shall fulfil three very important functions: they shall address possible excesses. Secondly, they shall ensure that all the secret services have a safe threshold to pass in order to initiate intervention against individuals in Norway. The third is to ensure that there is a proportionality in the use of instruments, i.e.: that consideration is also given to the backstopping of hazards, risks and harmfulness to the interventions that may potentially need to be addressed by individuals, and that alternative ways that may be less intrusive, perhaps more demanding, are also considered. It's also in a proportionality assessment. These are difficult questions to weigh, and therefore it is also quite essential that we have made it clear that the EOS Committee is not alone. In addition to the controls carried out by the EOS Committee – which, of course, must be based on reports of what has happened – we also have a very good judicial system, which we can probably discuss about getting even better. However, the advantage of the judicial system is that it is well-tested, that it is used to handling also secret information, and that it can be linked at any time by the procedure — by having mechanisms when assessing the measures to be taken, and it may be to check whether you have the right legal basis along the way. And of course, the court can also finally do some of what the EOS committee does, that's a back-up. That's why, on this occasion too, since two of the speakers were referring to a suggestion about PST – and you can of course refer to PST in an EOS debate, it's okay – that means that what we're going to be careful about is now having too strong opinions about what PST has had for reasons or not reasons to go into the matter that's been mentioned in the media. It can't be mature to do it now; on the contrary, it can be quite premature. And that's because I've also seen the newspapers that a representative would like to have the country's Minister of Justice – under parliamentary information responsibility to the Stortinget – explain what the reason for a special seizure might be. This is not the way a parliament can operate, but that is why we have the EOS Committee. They read newspapers, and they have said in several reports that they keep themselves informed about the media image. They are not more buried in public documents than they get the whole picture and on behalf of the public, on behalf of the press, do the job. So I want to strongly warn you that we as single representatives are going in and now do the job that we have chosen the EOS Committee to do. It's not because we have to discharge ourselves from responsibility, but we're lawmakers, lawmakers, and we can't operate alternative, parallel legal application. I think we agree on that with more thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3050	We see a changed security policy situation. At a time of unrest and uncertainty, it is essential that we have functioning EOS services to ensure our national security. To meet the challenges we face, it is important that the EOS service has the necessary tools and space for action. Similarly, it is important that we have democratic control over our secret services. The EOS Committee shall carry out an independent review and verification to ensure that the service complies with the established legislation. I am therefore pleased that the sample in the Annual Report has described that the EOS service has consistently demonstrated an understanding of the control of the sample in 2014. I agree with the sample that the control helps to ensure the legal certainty of individuals and to create confidence that the service operates within its legal framework. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, the Committee and the Committee criticised the lengthy process of clearance in the defence sector. The committee has requested the Stortinget to deal with this matter since the trial period is so long that it leads to a disproportionate intervention in the lives of individuals. The Committee has asked the Ministry of Defence to take immediate action, and I can assure you that action has been taken from autumn 2014 until now, and we will continue to do so. I share the deep concern of the committee and committee and take it very seriously. With the President's permission, I will now, as I announced in the previous case, spend some time saying something about status and action. First, a little bit about architecture. The FSA is responsible for the security clearance of the Armed Forces personnel. The national safety authority, NSM, is the complaint authority of the clearing authorities. At the same time, they have national responsibility for clearing at the highest clearance level, the Cosmic Top Secret – CTS. The Ministry of Defence is the complaint authority in the CTS cases and the clearing authority for foreign nationals in the sector. There have been long-term challenges for several years. One of the reasons is that matters are far more complex than before. For example, both a globalised labour market and immigration contribute to the links of many with other countries. Of course, the nature of such an association must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. It's time-consuming. It is also time-consuming to obtain personal data from cooperating countries, which I had so much to say in previous articles. The volume of cases is also a challenge. For example, the number of Cosmic Top Secret cases increased from 1 000 applications to 1 750 applications between 2012 and 2013. I have therefore started a review of the background to this increase. It may be that clearance is requested at a higher level than is really needed. Additional security clearances may also be required. The Defence Security Department deals with between 18 000 and 20,000 cases a year. It is obvious that the effective handling of so many cases depends on a good procedural tool. We therefore had great expectations for the introduction of the new full-electronic process tool Mimir. Unfortunately, one of the reasons for the disproportionately long procedure period in 2014 is the very introduction of Mimir. When Mimir was put into service late summer 2014, it quickly became clear that the system had major defects and deficiencies. There was a sharp increase in the number of cases pending in the clearance authorities in a short time. So the effort to repair Mimir started quickly. The result is that Mimir today works at an acceptable level. Compared to the situation facing the clearing house last autumn, this is a positive development which will help to reduce the length of proceedings. At the same time, the lack of human resources contributed to the long process. I have therefore given leadership both to the Defence and to the National Safety Authority to give priority to the work on safety clearances, in order to reduce the length of the procedure. It has been done both through PET, i.e. clarifications, changes and additions to the implementation letters, and through the etat management dialog. To date, the Defence Security Department has been strengthened by three new annual works this year and a further five will be provided in a short time. This means that the Defence Security Department will have increased the number of case handlers from 17 to 25 in the current year. In addition, two years' work has been assigned to the Defence Personnel and Security Centre in order to ensure the role of the requesting authority, thereby ensuring a better flow of cases between the Centre and the Defence Security Department. For information, the Defence Security Department reduced the residue list from the highest of 7,420 cases in February this year to 3,660 cases today. It's a positive development. Since autumn 2014, the national safety authority has allocated resources to the clearing authority to reduce the residues. In addition, they are strengthened by four new job homes. That means they're now dealing with things faster than new things come in. Overall, NSM’s procedural capacity has been strengthened from 8 to 13 case handlers. The national safety authority has already been able to reduce the process duration of the CTS cases. At the last reporting in May, it was 102 days and the objective is a maximum of 90 days. Both the Defence Security Department and the National Security Authority have now been provided with resources to significantly strengthen their procedural capacity. I expect both FSA and NSM to reduce the procedure during 2015, but will therefore follow these developments very closely. Both the Defence and the NSM state that they will provide more case handlers if necessary. I have also made clear that they must request additional resources if they see that the need is there. They have reported that it is not yet. The autumn of 2014 changed the defence procedures for calling and distributing to the first time service, as I mentioned in the previous case. This was a practice I stopped right away from the Ministry of Defence because it is not in line with the legislation, namely that individual treatment should be ensured. One of the conclusions of the working group that was subsequently decommissioned by the head of defence was that the clearing process should start earlier, so as to clarify the clearing issue before the first duty. In the autumn of 2015, a pilot project will be launched at the session centre in Kjevik, where this scheme will be tested. This means that for all – regardless of connection – allocated to the initial service, the clearing process should start immediately. Of those who received this letter from the Defense in the autumn of 2014, who – as I mentioned – have now received a new letter, and who wanted to join in, no one today has been cleared up for security. It's quite natural, because there's only a few of them that have so far completed the part of the session process that comes ahead of the clearing process. At the same time, the defence needs to clear up the security of personnel, including those entering the initial service. There will still be some who do not receive safety clearance, but it will then be based on an individual assessment, and that is normal practice. In this context, it is important to point out that the EOS Committee is reviewing the issues in which safety clearance is not provided. Three times a year, the Committee inspects the Defence Security Department. The committee has not commented on this kind of issue in the 2014 Annual Report. The Committee has pointed out in the Annual Report that some types of clearing cases are treated differently by different clearing authorities. This is unfortunate. On 20 May this year I sent a proposal for amendments to the Safety Act to be consulted. In the draft consultation, there are, among other things: proposed to significantly reduce the number of clearing authorities. It is likely to contribute to a greater level of non-discrimination and increase the quality of clearing decisions. It will also simplify the control and oversight role of the EOS Committee and provide clear economies of scale. In the Annual Communication, the sample pointed out the need for an external evaluation of the implementation of security calls. I have also noticed that the Committee feels that there is a need for such an external evaluation and that it is important that this work be prioritised. Security calls are based on a variant of the conversation technique called KREATIV, developed by the Norwegian police. CREATIV is based on the PEACE model. The methodology of the PEACE model is widely recognised and used, among others. by the police, the Foreign Affairs Directorate and the Resumption Commission. The EOS Committee and the National Safety Authority are still in dialogue on the need for an external evaluation. I am concerned that the NSM priority is to continue this dialogue with the sample. I have noticed that the sample in the Annual Report comments that the quality of the implementation of the security calls varies across the different clearing authorities. There could always be an improvement in the performance of some calls. It is therefore important that we reduce the number of clearance authorities, so that we get fewer and stronger professional authorities with increased specialisation and competence. The EOS Committee has noted in the Annual Report that they need access to Mimir. The National Safety Authority is now working to facilitate the establishment of a dedicated room for the EOS Committee at the NSM premises. There are resources allocated to it, and the work is in progress. When the EOS Committee has described that the EOS services are continuously facilitating the monitoring of the sample, I will specifically refer to the extensive work carried out in the E-service with the conversion of the entire archive system. This has enabled the sample to carry out searches as requested by the sample and in a way that is more consistent with the understanding of independent control. This contributes in the way that we rely on trust. I am also pleased that the sample specifies the positive in the Annual Report. In the 2013 Annual Communication, the sample asked questions about the basis for the processing of sensitive personal data by third parties related to source use. The question arose in connection with the sample survey of Norwegian sources in 2013, the so-called trade archive case. The Ministry has made an in-depth assessment of the legal basis, which the sample indicates has been taken for information purposes. The selection also specifies that they will continue to control the service in this area. This is an important part of the control to be carried out by the sample. I am pleased that the sample also specifies in this context that the control work is simpler as a result of the organisation of the E-service. In the annual report, the sample shows that they are expecting the Storting to address the issue of the transparency of the sample in the particular sensitive information of the E-service. Assessment of the current mechanism is part of the mandate of the evaluation committee. The Ministry of Defence has assisted the evaluation committee with information they have requested, among others. with regard to the need to maintain the system, as laid down by the Stortinget in 1999, which was confirmed in 2009 and which has been maintained by all Ministers of Defence since its inception by Jørgen Kosmo. Although the E-service has been loyal to current legal understanding and the decision of the Stortinge, it is challenging that the current scheme be constantly challenged. I look forward to the Storting's clarification in this matter. In their annual report, the EOS Committee describes one complaint case where they have found reasons to criticise the E-service. I would first like to make it clear that I am very serious that the sample is considering criticising the service for relations related to the information collection of Norwegian citizens located in Norway. I am aware that the E-service has also taken this matter as seriously and has taken immediate action to prevent similar situations from occurring. However, it is important for me to point out that no information has been collected on Norwegian citizens contrary to the legislation. I would also like to be clear that the case has its background in an error in the internal information flow in the service, so it is not a deliberate breach of the laws and regulations to which the service is subject. What happened was that information from PST that the person had returned to Norway had by mistake not been captured in the E-service. I will follow this up with the E service and ensure that the necessary actions are in place to ensure that internal processes and procedures for information management are good enough. Finally, I have noticed that the EOS Committee has described that in 2014 they have devoted considerable resources to organising the evaluation committee. It will continue in 2015. It is important for the democratic control and legitimacy of the secret services that, in line with other developments, the activities and framework conditions of the EOS Committee are also taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3094	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for a thorough review, to which I can essentially join. I think there was one sentence that I couldn't join up to. Otherwise, I think that the debate also shows that the work of the EOS Committee is being taken seriously. I have to admit that I am particularly enthusiastic about the EOS Committee, not only because I had it as a matter of procedure when I was the head of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee itself, but also because I believe the job done in the EOS Committee is absolutely vital to ensure the necessary legitimacy of the secret services. I also think it is good that this is done. In contrast to what one might think, I think it is important that the EOS Committee does find them, that they come with them, and that through dialogue with services, they improve the work of services in important areas. I also have the impression that the dialogue with the service is good, as the Annual Report also shows. It's a force. I also believe that there is reason to look forward to the evaluation of the EOS Committee to see whether we can further strengthen democratic control, whether there are other ways to solve this in the future, and whether there are things we have learned through the time that the EOS Committee has now worked, which can make us get a further improvement. I have to say that I am satisfied, also as the responsible State Council for this part of the administration, with the job the EOS Committee is doing. I thought I would comment on a few of the comments made by the EOS Committee. One concerns – which was also the subject of the case rapporteur – the question of retention obligations and the deletion rules in the police law. It is true that the PST has addressed the Ministry of Justice and Defence, which has carried out an assessment of whether it is contradictory or not. The basic conclusion is that there is no conflict, but that someone has to deal with it in a different way. According to the Police Register Regulation, destruction may take the form either in the form of cassation, by decision of the National Archives or in the form of archiving. For PST, it is not specified specifically in the regulation on how to delete it, so we now have a dialogue with PST on how to implement it in practice. I think there is reason to mention that the PST has, after I have now been informed, changed its follow-up and notority procedures relating to the contact with foreign services. It's also been one of the things that the EOS Committee has pointed out. I would also like to make some comments related to the TSC register. That's very demanding. We have tried – as is also evident from the position of the EOS Committee – in many ways, through different channels, to obtain information on registration of Norwegian citizens, i.e. those who do not report the PST themselves. Getting good information has been very complicated. We've spent a lot of time and reminders several times, and we're going to keep doing that until we get full information. But it's a clear challenge that we're not really familiar with what's the cause of the registration of Norwegian citizens, who's reporting them, and how to get them out if you think it's not the basis for that registration. Those who are notified by the PST have the necessary follow-up, and where there is no longer any basis for registration, it is notified to the register. Finally, I think there is reason to mention – as it has received a lot of public attention – the use of mobile zones by the PST. The case rapporteur and several others were also involved. There is reason to mention that the relationship considered to be contrary to the disciplines of the Criminal Procedure Act on the one hand and the obligation to notify the NKOM, the National Communications Authority, on the other hand, has been clarified by the fact that the PST is now notifying the NKOM in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3111	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3125	The Civil Ombudsman is an important institution in Norwegian society. He shall ensure that the administration takes care of its individual interests in a complex administration, in a complex society. Through the Civilo Ombudsman, the individual makes it possible for an administrative decision to be examined by a neutral and independent body. The Civil Ombudsman also makes an important effort to monitor and control the respect and security of human rights. It is therefore an important part of Storting's work to deal with the annual report of the Civilo Ombudsman. I would like to draw up a few points from the 2014 Annual Report, which are also mentioned in the Committee's comments. Nav is a theme that is left in the annual news from the Civilo Ombudsman. In 2014, the Civilombodsman criticised the administration in three cases of legal security relating to parts of Nav’s legislation, which includes activising measures and performances to get the most involved in the work. The cases came in the light of changes in the promises that followed in the wake of the Nav reform. It is worth noting that the Civilombodsman points out the importance of the department conducting thorough analysis of the consequences for the legal certainty of this type of bill, and that the analyses are presented to the Stortinget. There is also something the Stortinget should take with him in his further work. Another theme that came up again in the annual report is sanitary conditions in prison. In the light of the debate we have recently had on the capacity of criminal services, an own message here in the Stortinget, and the maintenance needs of Norwegian prisons, there is a criticism that authorities should follow up. In addition, it is worth noting that for many years, the Civilobodsman has been indicting violations of the main rule of transfer from police detention to prison within two days. Oversight in police arrest is a problem that needs to be taken seriously. Over the last few years, there has been an increase in the number of overdoses in the Oslo police district, while at the same time the coverage of criminal services is very high and the settlement queues are increasing. Long sitting time in police detention has been the subject of criticism from the Council of Europe's torture prevention committee, and it is a theme that we are forced to take more seriously in the Norwegian community. The International Police Office at Trandum is also a theme mentioned in the Annual Report. It is positive that the material conditions at the boarding school have been better, but there is cause for concern when the Civilo Ombudsman felt that control and security had been over-implemented in comparison with the concerns of those who internalized their private lives in some areas. In the Civil Ombudsman’s statements, it is made, among other things: highlighted: ‘Full body vision with regard to the abdomen is a very invasive measure.’ In-house routine body searches were often and unexpectedly at risk, but there appeared to be no concrete assessments of the need for individual body searches. It follows from the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights that it may constitute an infringement of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. We expect the government to follow up on those concerns. A last theme I want to mention, which has also been left in the annual reports, and which is a theme this time as well, is the freedom of speech to add. Freedom of expression is a fundamental human right, and rights in Norway are protected by the Constitution. Initially, the same freedom of expression has been added to the freedom of expression as others, including at work, but it may be added that it may be subject to some legitimate limitations linked to the obligation to participate and the obligation of non-statutory loyalty. The Civil Ombudsman emphasises that such an obligation to act loyally against the enterprise in which one is assigned does not mean that the employer can regulate or sanction statements that add on his own behalf on political matters, and points in the Annual Report to a specific case from 2014, where this theme was addressed. It is, I would say, essentially to ensure the addition of its freedom of expression, and it is a theme that has been at the forefront of several things in recent years. It is crucial for an informed public debate. Additions may have specific competence, insight and experience in a relevant field and may also contribute to the detection of critical issues. In the light of the Civilombodsman’s concerns in the previous annual report, this is a field that should be covered by special attention in the future. With these comments, I conclude my work, as a case spokesman, with the annual report and reiterate that it is an important work, and that it is important that the Stortinge is well informed about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3154	Here, too, there is a unanimous vote, to which the rapporteur has made a full and correct statement. But I just want to comment on some of the points. First of all, I would like to say that every time we deal with the report of the Civil Ombudsman, which we have now dealt with the report of the Defence Ombudsman and the report of the EOS Committee, it is worth noting that there is a broad consensus in the Grand Duchy about the work that is being done. What the civil ombudsman, who is still sitting here, should hear, is that it is in very great confidence that the work they do on a daily basis is a good work. If there's something you can be absolutely sure about, it's that the Storting discovers it if that's not the case, and is able to notice it. What also beats you, which we talk a little bit about, probably, is that it's a huge amount of business that the Civil Ombudsman deals with every day and every year. In spite of this, when comments are as limited as they are, the Stortinget shows that the administration in Norway manages individuals consistently. I think it's important to say that. It gives us confidence that the legal conditions and the rules that we have are followed by the administration. That's fine, because it shows that Norway is a democratic society, where we take into account the individual people. Infringements by the authorities against the individual are practically absent. That's what I think is sentences that should be said in a context like this, as we'd like to discuss a little bit of special things. Then there are some special things that have been discussed by the President-in-Office. I just want to highlight that the Workers' Party is not included in the comment attached to the Nav Ombudsman. It's not because we don't think it's much to discuss with Nav – and it's been done here in this room not long ago to a significant extent. But our approach to dealing with Nav ombudsmen is that it does not solve the challenges. This does not mean that we do not believe that there can be much to criticise Nav for – we look to that on a daily basis, unfortunately. But an agent won't solve this. It is policy instruments that will be able to solve what is associated with Nav. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, under the direction of Mr Gruvean, has recently examined this in a very thorough manner, and has just adopted specific things relating to the handling of Nav, and then ICT, of course. Then we too – I'm just going to say it very briefly too, because really the case rapporteur has said what is to be said – start to respect the constant references we get from all the teams about overcrowding in prison. That's because the capacity is too low. It's not because the police are drooling – there may be a few examples, but I think that's quite exceptional. They're in a forced situation, they don't have anywhere to send the detainees. It creates a very big problem, which creates a fundamental problem, which the Civil Ombudsman also points out. I see that the Minister of Justice has asked for the floor afterwards, and that is good, because it is important that we get to comment on exactly this at this reading as well. It's a repetition, so it's important that we get to do this. Finally, I just want to say that I agree very much with the point made in this setting, but also in the next one, which relates to the conditions on Trandum. There may be many reasons to be strict on Trandum – I understand that, and it is possible that the Minister of Justice will comment on this – but on the other hand, we should not break human rights or be close to doing so, as it is not suggested in this position, but in the next. I believe that the Storting must mark. I see that the Minister of Justice is carefully nodding his head, and that is reassuring, and then we hear what he has to say when he comes to the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3169	The role of the Ombudsman is to help ensure that there is no injustice from the public administration against the individual citizen. The Ombudsman also has an important role to play in the form of a prevention function. The role of the Ombudsman, through its handling of individual cases, becomes an opinion-making and, in fact, a practical character. The rapporteur has explained the Committee's position, so I'm not going to go into the details so much. I just want to record a couple of relationships. I find that the number of cases has remained somewhat stable over the last four years, but with a slight increase from 2013 to 2014. It is gratifying that there has been a decline in the Ombudsman’s time of proceedings. There's a reason to notice a positive sign. But we can also notice that a clear majority of complaints, in fact about three-quarters, were directed to government agencies, and of them, most complaints are directed at Nav and the county officials. With regard to the Employment and Welfare Act, it has not been long since we dealt with a major issue here in the Biggest on ICT systems. In fact, there is some reason for concern about whether everyone will get the right performance in the future at the right time. Although experience with the Nav process shows that clear improvements have been made, there is still reason to fear from the Civil Ombudsman’s annual report that there will also be many complaints in the long term. There is still a clear potential for improvement in the processing time of many Nav units. The Christian People's Party has therefore, together with all parties except the Workers' Party and the Right, been called upon to strengthen the legal aid system in this area by establishing its own Nav Ombudsman. We have also expressed that in our comments on this matter. We believe such a system, in addition to being able to provide more people with help in dealing with a complicated administration, will relieve the Civil Ombudsman in the long term and contribute to the necessary improvements also in Nav. The Civil Ombudsman's notification for 2014 just underlines the need for such a Nav ombudsman. The Annual Report shows that the Civil Ombudsman and this function are also respected by the administration, and that is good. In general, the Ombudsman’s decision is loyally followed up by the administrative bodies. It is important and has great value for them in this regard directly, but also for society as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3184	Just a few brief comments: I want to join the committee leader Martin Kolberg said that Norwegian administration is basically working well. I think it's important to bring it into this case, because that's what it really shows, that there's a lot that works very well. So I'm going to comment on a couple of things that are relevant to my responsibilities, and that have also been the subject of comments from the pulpit. One applies to police detention. It's a serious problem, and it's been over time. It's a situation that we have to solve. One of the main challenges is that there is very high capacity utilisation in ordinary prisons, over 98.2 pst. so far this year, after the last figures. This makes the transfer to custody too complicated sometimes. Earlier this week, the Stortinget has hopefully helped to resolve some of this situation by providing 242 new prison sites, hopefully from 1 September onwards and correctly in the Netherlands, but this will still help to increase the possibility of faster transfer to ordinary custody zones and thus also help to reduce congestion, as well as to address some of the other challenges in the area of criminal care. But this is something we have a lot of focus on. If you look at it historically, in 2009 there were 3,539 cases of overdraft, according to figures from the Police Directorate. In 2013, there were 4,250 cases of the same thing. So there's been an increasing trend except for a slight decrease in 2011. In 2014, the figure was 3,440, according to the figures we received from the Police Directorate. There are large numbers, and it is necessary to have the necessary political pressure on this, but it is also necessary to ensure that the agencies are able to solve this better in the future. Then I will also mention the issues related to Trandum, where there is a balance between security issues and privacy. There's, as I'm told, the PU is doing a review to make sure that one is within the limits that one should be. It is of course necessary, as the chairman of the committee also pointed out, that we should not go beyond the limits of human rights here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3197	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3211	The Civil Ombudsman’s preventive unit against torture and inhumane treatment in the event of a loss of freedom was created in spring 2014 and a central purpose of the creation of the unit is to fulfil the obligations assumed by Norway as a result of the accession to the Additional Protocol to the Torture Convention, often abbreviated to the OPCAT, following the original English-language title. The pre-convention unit has the right to visit all places where people are, or may be, outside its freedom. The aim of the visit is to prevent torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. Visits may be alerted or unannounced. The committee has noticed that the device has used the phase from creation to get started. Many of the work done in 2014 has focused on planning, the development of working methods and procedures, and the creation of documents such as visit manuals and priority criteria for where to investigate. In addition, there have been more concrete visits and dialogue and contacts with a number of actors – from public authorities, educational institutions, trade unions and academia to civil society. A total of five visits were carried out by the unit during 2014. Of them, two were in prison and three were in police custody. The visited institutions have received a report with recommendations after the visit, and we have argued that these recommendations will be followed up. We expect that the prevention unit will carry out clearly more visits in 2015 than in 2014, as the first year more or less without exception took place for start-up and launch. The Committee has noted that the prevention unit notes that high levels of coating and building and manning challenges lead to increased isolation and tightening when it is related to joint detention. A joint committee is concerned about that. We are also concerned that the prevention unit has the impression that female intervention is getting a little-satisfying condolences compared to men. That's not good. I want to say that it is a theme that is interesting to examine more carefully and thoroughly. And then we've noticed that the new unit also finds that there are challenges associated with overseeing the two-day deadline. So what is referred to as the two-day deadline is the rule of the police code §3-1, which states that it should be transferred from police detention to regular prison within two days. It is stated in Section 3-1 of the Police Ordinance on the transfer from police detention to prison: ‘The prisoner shall be transferred within two days of the attack, unless this is not possible for practical reasons. If the prisoner is under 18 years of age, transfer shall be made as soon as possible and no later than the day following the attack. If a transfer is made later, the reasons shall be set out in the arrest record.’;» Over several years, the Civil Ombudsman has expressed concerns about the number of exceedances of the deadline. That's why we're worried about the fact that too long arrests in police arrests seemed to be an increasing problem in several places, including the United States. due to a lack of available capacity in prison. A joint committee says that they are happy that the prevention unit is aware of the problem of a two-day break. A single committee also points to the need to build capacity in prison as one of the key measures to address the problems. Finally, I would say that I believe I am talking to a joint committee when I say that we are pleased that this pre-emptive unit has now been created, and that one has done a good job. We thank you for a thorough first annual report for the unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3240	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3246	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3254	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size agrees to the fixing of the following allowances with effect from 1 May 2015: Storting representatives SEK 871 397 per year Government members kr 1,235 144 per year Prime Minister kr 1 519 700 per year» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3306	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3311	It is possible that the President expressed himself very clumsily, and on this basis the President will take that vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3375	The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3388	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3402	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3410	A total of 35 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Hadia Tajik on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposals No. 2-12, by Hadia Tajik, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 13-28, by Marit Arnstad, on behalf of the Centre Party, proposals Nos. 29–35, from Bård Vegar Solhjell on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 33 and 35, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the authority to make changes to the local service structure is added to the Ministry of Justice and Defence and not to the Directorate of Police.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide for Romerike and Follo to become part of the Oslo Police District.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3449	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 32 and 34, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to ensure that the investigation of sexual abuse and violence in close relations is prioritised.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide for Sogn and Fjordane to become a separate police district.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3473	There is a vote on proposal No. 29, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a major communication on culture, management and attitudes in the police action.’ The Workers' Party and the Centre have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3492	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 30 and 31, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to provide for systematic empowerment throughout the whole operation in the field of the investigation of sexual abuse, violence against children and violence in close relations.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asked to go through the use of figures in the police action to ensure that such figures do not lead to bad priorities for police matters.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3516	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15, 16, 19, 25 and 27, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘Annually, the government asks the Government to inform Storting about the police districts’ ability to meet response time requirements.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to report annually on changes in police management and culture.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote its own case for the Great Government on the technological developments in the police.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked to determine the police district structure according to the county model in NOU 2013:9. The Government is authorised to make minor border adjustments where local conditions indicate appropriateness.’;» Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Grand Duchy to decide where the administrative offices of the new police districts are to be located.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3553	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13, 22, 23 and 26, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to bring forward its own case for the Storting to determine the place of employment structure in the police districts.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to raise a case on how the target 2 police officers per 1 000 inhabitants are to be reached and benefited the whole country.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the rights of objection of the municipalities in the event of changes to the districts of the county should not be impaired.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government does not ask to make changes to the structure of 110 centres.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3587	There is a vote on proposal No. Eighteen from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought by the government on common training courses for emergency units.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3606	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14, 21, 24 and 28, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to raise a case on how to reduce the response time in the districts.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the impact of the proposal for a 90 pst. the population shall have a maximum of 45 minutes driving time to the nearest place of service.’;» Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the future organisation and management of the PST units in the police districts.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: «The government is asked to provide adequate means of conversion for police reform in the annual budgets.» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3640	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to promote its own case on the future role of the Police Directorate.’ The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3659	There is a vote on proposal No. Seventeen from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote its own case for the Storting with strategies for recruiting more women leaders to the police.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3679	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to close the police reserve and to transfer funds and tasks to the Home Office and Civil Protection.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3698	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7, 10 and 11, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The size requires the government to submit a progress plan for the National Emergency Response Centre as soon as possible and at the latest in the context of the 2016 budget proposal.’; Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government requests a government assessment of the level at which the response time is to be calculated’.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to maintain today’s regime with its own border commissioner.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3727	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–6, 8 and 9 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a national action plan to raise the field of investigation.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking to come back with its own case on culture, management and policing attitudes by 2016.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for follow-up research to be carried out on the implementation and impact of police reform.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the underlying agency develops specific requirements for police management competence at all levels, including police officers.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish a national, scalable operating centre in line with the recommendations of the Gjørv Commission and to clarify that the POD situation centre is not intended to hold the role of a national operating centre.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The size requests the government to come back appropriately with a comprehensive plan for the country’s overall helicopter capacity, including transport solutions for the rescue team.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to contribute to the establishment of up-to-date records of available response resources available to, inter alia, non-governmental organisations, HRS, fire and rescue services.’ The centre party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3820	The vote will be taken first at the vote on the motion for a resolution for the second reading. The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it. The roll-call boards showed that 58 representatives voted in favour of the motion for a resolution for II and 42 representatives voted against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 19.29.21]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3831	Since there are several people who have voted incorrectly, we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3844	The vote will then be taken over the vote on the proposal for the VIII vote. The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3858	The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution for III. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3872	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to maintain responsibility for the continental shelf in four police districts.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e3887	The vote will then be taken over the motions for motions for resolutions I, IV, V, VI and VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e11142	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e11152	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e11160	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e11187	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: 'In Law No. 22 May 1981 No. 25 on criminal proceedings is amended as follows: § 239 is replaced by: § 239. Organised hearings shall be used for the hearing of witnesses under 18 years of age in proceedings for infringement of the Criminal Code Chapter 26, §§ 273, 275, 282 or 284. Organised interrogations may also be used in the hearing of witnesses under 18 years of age in cases of other criminal offences where the witness’s concern so warrants. Organised hearings shall be used in the hearing of witnesses with a mental retardation or other disability who would have the same need for an organised hearing in the case of violation of Chapter 26, Sections 273, 275, 282 or 284. Organised hearings may also be used in the hearing of witnesses with a mental retardation or other disability who give rise to the same need for organised questioning in cases of other criminal offences where the reasons for the information or consideration of the witness so warrant. The provisions shall apply mutatis mutandis in case of testing.» The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e11220	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a new children’s home in the new police district of East, and to consider setting up a new children’s home in the police district of Finnmark.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e11516	The Labour Party has notified that they support the suspension subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e11527	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e11537	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e11545	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party Proposal No. 2, by Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party, proposal No. 3, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 20 December 1996 106 on the fastening of land is amended as follows: the fourth paragraph of Section 15 is replaced by the following: In the case of the extension of fastenings pursuant to Section 33, the fastening may require that the annual fastening charge be regulated once so that it corresponds to 1.25 per cent of the land value less of the mist that the land has been supplied by the land by the landowner with its own measures or supplements to measures taken by others. The plot world must not be set higher than the plot can be sold for if it is only allowed to set up the house or houses on the plot. However, the debenture may not charge the fees regulated more than a maximum amount per year for each debenture or the amount that regulation in accordance with the monetary value would give. The maximum amount is 6000 kroner adjusted at each turn of the year after 1 January 2002 according to the change in the monetary value. This is the maximum amount even if the amount of land is less than a denarius. For plots between one and two decks, the maximum amount is $6,000 plus the size of the plots in addition to a dekar multiplied by $3,000. For larger plots, the maximum amount of land is $9,000 plus the size of the plot over two pieces of land is $1500. The remover must present the requirement within three years of the end of the attachment. The right to regulate the fastening charge after the paragraph here does not apply if a right has been agreed for the fastening device to extend.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e11578	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e11597	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e11773	It is first voted on the fourth paragraph of Section 15. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e11788	The second sentence of Section 15 is added to the fifth paragraph of Section 15 and the second sentence of the ninth paragraph of Section 15. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e11802	The rest of I and II are voted on. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e11816	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Socialist Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e11831	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e11925	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e11935	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e11943	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party, proposal No. 2, from Steinar Reiten on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left There is a vote on proposal No. One from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the inclusion of works above 10 MW built before 7 September 2009 as well as installations with increased production as a result of upgrading and extension of existing installations in the transitional electricity certificate scheme.’» [[OU projects]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e11969	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks to include the three power plants in Sogn and fjordane with installed power above 10 MW in the use of the transitional regime.’ The right-wing party and the Progressive Party have announced their support for the proposal. The vote boards showed that 57 votes were cast in favour of the proposal and 40 against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 19.39.21]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e11985	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e11990	Let's try it again. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left shall vote in favour of the proposal and the others shall vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e11995	The centre party shall vote in favour of the proposal in a subsidiary manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e12000	The centre party shall also vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e12231	It is first voted on Section 8, first paragraph. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e12246	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e12256	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e12270	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-10.ana.ud68e12389	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
