ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e206	Honourable co-representatives! Former Stable Representative from Hedmark and the Workers' Party, Else Marie Myhren Repål, for us in Stortinget also known as Else Bakke, died on 19 April, 85 years old. She represented Hedmark for over 12 years, from 1969. She was a member of the Administrative Committee, the Preparatory Powers Committee, the Social Committee and the Powers Committee. She also met as an alternate between 1981 and 1985. She was an alternate member of the Interparliamentary Union, IPU, and was a delegate to the 1977 UN General Assembly. When Else Marie Myhren Repål ended after about twelve years on Stortinget, she saw with joy back at the time of the fall. The joy was not quite as great that day in 1969 when she was told that she had a safe place on the election list. There was something quite different than what she had asked when she was asked to stand there. Her condition to say yes was just that she should be standing far down on the list, and that she was sure not to be elected. It was also written by Hamar Arbeiderblad. And she admitted in newspaper interviews that she was amazed when she first came into the Stortinget. But later she never regretted that she had said yes. Else Marie Myhren Repål soon found himself well at ease at Stortinget. In particular, she got involved in matters where she got help to poor individuals. In retrospect, she looked back at the bulk work with great joy. Else Marie Myhren Repål was well-like and had many friends here at Stortinget. She was, among other things, Chairman of the Stockholm Welfare Committee, such as: stood for the operation of pottery, trim and the bathroom. Being a big-time politician is an unsafe profession. It also got Else Marie Myhren Repetition. In 1981 she was pushed down on the electoral list. She ended up in sixth place and thus became the first alternate. Else Marie Myhren Repål assured that she was not bitter, and said once: I had been sitting for three periods and that might be enough. I had to accept that other and younger people came in. Otherwise Else Marie Myhren Repetitious political to live as a 15-year-old. Among other things, she met Reulf Steen and became one of the most enthusiastic in the local AUF team. Then she started a women's group on Rena, and it opened up space both in the social board and in the child's protection board. As one of the first female representatives from Hedmark, Else Marie Myhren Repet became a pioneer at Stortinget. She became a firehouse for her heart matters, which concerned welfare issues for most people. We thank Else Marie Myhren Repål for a long working day, and brighten the peace of her memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e227	The representative of Arild Grande will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e230	On behalf of the representatives Lise Christoffersen, Dag Terje Andersen, Anette Trettebergstien, Hege Haukeland Liadal, Sonja Mandt and myself, I am delighted to propose a proposal to investigate a change in the rule of widow/widower pension linked to the rights of the cohabiter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e235	The representative, Mr Renate Håheim, will present a proposal for a representative. It doesn't seem like the representative's here. The representative, Mr Helge André Njåstad, will then put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e240	On behalf of the representatives of Frank J. Jensen, Geir Tuskedal, André N. Skkelstad and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to abolish the municipal monopoly on land surveying.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e245	The representative, Marit Nybakk, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e248	On behalf of the representatives Jan Bøhler, Marianne Marthinsen, Anette Trettebergstuen, Truls Wickholm and myself, I have the pleasure of submitting a proposal for a representative to amend Section 202 of the Criminal Code so that it also covers indoor activities via the Internet.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e254	The representative, Jan Bøhler, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e257	On behalf of the representatives of Marianne Marthinen, Marit Nybakk, Truls Wickholm and myself, I would like to make a proposal to change the ownership law – democracy in common to prevent speculation in rental and purchase.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e262	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16:00.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e278	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e292	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e306	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e320	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e329	I would first like to thank the Committee on good and constructive cooperation. In my opinion, the attitude gives a good picture of where the parties agree, and where there is real disagreement in the policy of the country's main industry. Global population growth and wealth development are increasing in demand for energy. Oil and gas will be an important part of the energy mix in the foreseeable future. Growth in energy consumption, together with the need to replace declining production, suggests that in the foreseeable future there will be a market for the oil and gas resources in Norway. We will therefore be an oil nation for many decades. Ever since the very beginning, it has been an overall objective that the Norwegian petroleum resources should benefit the entire population and that it should lead to the creation of value throughout the country. The policy pursued to achieve these objectives has produced results. 240 000 jobs throughout the country are attributable to the activity of this industry. 27 pst. of the income of the country in 2014 and 29 p.m. of the total investments in the country came in the petroleum sector. This industry has become the country's most important, and the state of the industry affects the whole country. Large investments, long lead-time in development projects and long-term performance horizons make this industry more sensitive to political risks than others. Stability and predictability are therefore important when companies are required to make their investment decisions. I am therefore pleased to conclude that there is still a broad consensus on the overall lines of our petroleum policy. There is unanimous support for the above-mentioned overall objectives, a broad majority of which indicates that, for many decades to come, petroleum activities will play a central role in Norwegian value creation, employment, technology development and societal development. The policy drawn up in the Stoltenberg government's big message A industry for the future, continued by the sitting government. This is an expression of political stability and predictability across changing governments. There is an overall committee, with the exception of the Greens/Greens/EFA, which points to the need to continue the work on emissions reductions from this industry and the development of low-emission technologies to enable Norwegian petroleum activities to deliver oil and gas in the 2050s. The development of the Sverdrup field is becoming in many ways an area for the operationalisation of our long-term objectives. This field requires huge investments, it has a very long production time, and it is a fact that many of those who are going to join in shutting down the field are not yet born. There are in particular two aspects which have taken on board the majority of the Committee. The importance of the project for the Norwegian supplier industry and the climate perspective lies in the fact that the Sverdrup field is to be driven by power from land, but also that this energy solution provides the basis for three other fields in the area of the Utsira Height to be driven by power from land. Contracts have been awarded so far for 27 out of a total of 117 billion. kr in connection with the construction phase of the project 1 – Aker Solutions, Aibel, Kværner, ABB and Odfjell Drilling have received a big job. In today's economic situation, these missions make an important contribution to our ability to maintain capacity and competence in the supplier industry. In the Committee's comments on force from the country, we have continued the unanimity of the Innst. 237 S for 2013–2014. The Committee acknowledges that it is most appropriate for the operator and the licensees to see the location and dimensioning of area resolution for power from land in the context of the development of construction stage 2, but underlines that the area resolution will be in place in 2022. To this end, the Committee supports proposals to amend the conditions, where we take out what can be seen as a binding on progress in building stage 2, and states that the solution should be in place by 2022. The heat demand in the Edvard Grieg field has become a topic in this matter. The Committee expects a qualification process for electric boilers to be carried out prior to the decision on how to meet the heat demand. To sum up, there is a broad consensus on the long lines of the petroleum policy, and there is a broad connection to the plan for the development and operation of Johan Sverdrup. Let me say something about those issues where there is political disagreement. This is primarily about how we are going to meet the dramatic situation we have today in the country's most important industry. Only in this week has it been announced that 4000 jobs are disappearing in oil companies and the supplier industry. DNB Markets has calculated that more than 20 000 jobs have been lost since January last year. In my conversations with employees in oil companies, representatives of the supplier industry, Norwegian Industry and the trade union movement, the situation is described as serious and dramatic. Maintenance is postponed, projects are put on hold, suppliers are pushed to, and past, their outermost limits at price, and recruitment to the industry is stopped. It is obvious to everyone who wants to see that the management of low oil prices by oil companies is not sustainable. There is a broad consensus that the activity in the industry will resume in a few years. The working party fears that such a rise will trigger an upward cost spiral and that capacity and competence will be rebuilt in a short time, which will be reduced in these days. This is not the first time that the oil nation of Norway has experienced the oil industry being in bad weather. In previous downsurges, labor party governments have acted, as we have, for example. In 1993, when we set up NORSOK, in 1997, when we took the initiative to set up INTSOK, and in 2001, when the KonKraft cooperation was established. All these measures have worked, and none of them would exist without political initiative and – let me add – political will. This has been a timely effort to achieve our objective for the oil industry, as described in the Petroleum Act. The Resource Manager shall provide the country with income and contribute to ensuring well-being, employment and a better environment and strengthen Norwegian business and industrial development, taking into account the interests of district policy and other activities. We therefore ask the government to assess and come back to the budget for 2016, with eight measures that we believe will help to mitigate the fall in activity and contribute to ensuring competence and capacity. We want stronger political participation in KonKraft cooperation and believe that the department should resume participation in this cooperation. All experience suggests that this type of cooperation between industry, trade unions and authorities contributes positively to challenges such as those we now experience. We believe that authorities need to make greater use of the tools they have to ensure that time-critical and profitable activities are carried out in times of free capacity in the supplier industry. This applies to well ploughing, maintenance and modifications, and to enhanced extraction measures. We believe that there is a need to assess the functioning of the permit code for this industry, and we believe that there is a need to look at what can be done to ensure that the relevant lines of secondary schools are not reduced as a result of the fact that companies are not recruiting in the current situation. We know that in a few years' time we'll see a wave of pensioners out of this industry, which can help to reinforce the negative effects of the brutal deflation we see today. We have also seen for a long time a trend with delays and large exceedances in development projects. The report by the Directorate-General for Oil on this subject shows that delays and exceedances, for example: come as a result of a lack of knowledge of NORSOK standards, HMS legislation and shortcomings in the prequalification and follow-up of suppliers. We have repeatedly seen Norwegian suppliers lose their bid against Asian shipyards, where the final result is costs far beyond the original tender and delivery much later than intended. This is of course a problem for Norwegian shipyards. It is felt that competition is not real. It is also a problem for Norwegian society, as 89 pst. the costs are depreciated on the tax. In other words, society has 89 pst. of the risk. The Working Party therefore considers that it is appropriate to investigate how, through closer follow-up to development projects, governments can ensure that contract strategies and implementation contribute to the achievement of our overall objectives of petroleum policy. We have also noted the concerns of both the industry and the trade union movement as to whether the HMS standard is given sufficient weight when contracts are awarded. Korea, which has received many mandates for Norwegian capital, has a death rate per 100,000 yearly works of 12.5, while the corresponding rate in Norwegian industry is 0.9. No one should believe that our high level of health, environment and safety comes of itself, or that it is free. When three deaths are recorded on the Goliath platform on the yard, it should call our attention. We can't accept that life and health become a competitive factor, where the person who downgrades this wins the bidding. Let me also add: we have seen that the unions at the Hyundai yard in Korea have now actually asked the Norwegian oil fund to withdraw from the investments in Hyundai, with a background in the poor HMS situation. We are therefore asking the government to assess whether all or part of our HMS legislation can also be enforced in the construction of installations for Norwegian sockets, in order to ensure that our ambitions to be world leaders on HMS also follow the projects from the start until they are ready to install and operate on a socket. It's not the first time we've had a setback that we've seen. What is different now is that we have a Right Party government at the rudder that minimizes the situation and leaves to the market to solve the problems. The Council of State hassles with those who believe that action needs to be taken, reminds me of Marie Antoinette's response to the French people's demand for bread: Can they not eat cakes, then? With this I address the suggestions that the Workers' Party and others are behind in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e369	The representative Per Rune Henriksen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e372	At 2: 00 p.m., September night in 1969, the telephone called the Norwegian head of Phillips, Ed Crump, in Stavanger. It was the rigging director of "Ocean Viking", Ed Seabourn, who called. Listen, he said, I think I have oil all over the North Sea, but the well is under control. At the same time, Seabourn had sent a message to the office in Stavanger: ‘I hereby declare that the North Sea, from here to the North Pole, is a large oil basin’. With these words, Norway's history as an oil nation was sealed. The findings of «Ocean Viking» and Phillips this night in September came at the tame of what had proved to be a very disappointing second concession round on Norwegian pedestal. From the first optimism a few years earlier there were now several who had given up the dream of a Norwegian oil adventure. After several dry wells and failed attempts to find the black gold under the Norwegian seabed, Phillips was ready to thank him. Had it not been for the certainty that they had to pay the state a million dollars to get out of the drilling program they were obliged to implement, this last well would probably never have been drilled. And everything might be very different today. The find that got Ed Seabourn to scribble the message about Norwegian pedestal as an oil pool was going to be Ekofisk, and it was going to be a little bit bigger than even the greatest optimists in the 1960s could imagine. It's now 46 years since it was found Ecofisk and 44 years since it came into production. It was, and is, one of the biggest findings on Norwegian pedestal ever. Today we will adopt the development of a new Norwegian giant, Johan Sverdrup. I find it interesting to draw the line from Sverdrup to Ekofisk, from one giant to another. The stories of Sverdrup and Ekofisk share many similarities, and they remind us that even in times when you have felt compelled to realize that a dream is over, reality can change in a moment. The blocks that hid both Ekofisk and Johan Sverdrup were both awarded in the first round of the Norwegian concession, in 1965. This year it's been 50 years since this first concession round, and in this way it's amazing that we're going to adopt this very year the expansion of a field that's been hidden in this area ever since. In connection with the 50th anniversary, the Director of the Oil Directorate, Bente Nyland, said: ‘Had the operator Esso had access to the data that existed in 2010, the well could have been located elsewhere – and Johan Sverdrup could then be the first commercial oil find on Norwegian base.’ Johan Sverdrup is located in a mature area east of the Utsira Height. The findings were identified by Lundin in September 2010, following an authorisation granted in 2008 by the TFO. In this way, Johan Sverdrup is a good will on how important the TFO scheme has been and is for development on a Norwegian base. Also in mature areas where you've been able to easily find new elephants with new technology. The Sverdrup field is the largest oil field found on Norwegian base in decades. Not since the 1980s, we've found something similar. When production is on top, the field alone will account for about a quarter of Norwegian oil production. Expected production period is 50 years – in other words, the chance is great that one day my future grandchildren can have a job related to the activity at Sverdrup. At a time when someone is eager to celebrate that the oil age is approaching the end in Norway, I think it is more right to celebrate that we still have many good years of Norwegian oil and gas production in front of us. I would like to thank the case rapporteur, Per Rune Henriksen, for his good and constructive cooperation in dealing with this important matter. With the exception of a few members, the Committee strongly supports a message that Norway continues to have a future as an oil and gas nation. The majority of the committee sees the fantastic opportunities that Sverdrup gives us, in terms of both income and jobs for the future. There are difficult times in the oil and gas industries. I remember well how at the beginning of this great period, while traveling around to get acquainted with the industry, I often heard about how challenging it was with sky-high costs of renting rigging. Now the rigs are in charge, without commission, and the prices have fallen dramatically. For some, it's good news, for many others, it's dramatic. There are many similar examples of how the situation has turned its back on my head since my first day as a big man's representative a year and a half ago. Since then, 22,000 oil jobs have disappeared, and many experience a personal crisis where they are now out of work, but with the same financial obligations as before. The mortgage is to be paid, children are to have leisure activities, and food is to be on the table. It's a tough situation. Fortunately, many quickly find new work, but this does not apply to everyone. That is why I am pleased that the government has amended the law on permitting, so that more people can now avoid dismissal. At the same time, we have increased the number of action places and reduced the threshold into working life by modernising the labour-environment law. These are all important measures in the short term. But short-term solutions do not provide security for the future for those who are now out of work. So as a society, we have to change, create new jobs and give the country more legs to stand on – not because the oil age is over, but because it makes sense in a future picture. If there's one thing the current situation in the oil and gas industry shows us, it's how vulnerable we are when this industry is going through tough times. The most important thing we can do to secure jobs in the oil and gas industry is to facilitate activity and to ensure predictable framework conditions in the industry. It has been facilitated by the government through a record allocation in the TFO and through the 23rd concession round. With the 23rd concession round, the industry has been able to search new areas for the first time since 1994. It offers optimism and opportunities and will provide activity both for oil companies and for the supplier industry. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee has stated in this position that the framework for the 23rd round of the concession is fixed. At the same time, we work specifically to strengthen Norway's competitiveness. We facilitate the jobs of the future by investing in innovation and new technologies. We're going to spend 1.5 billion. kr more for this now than in 2013, among others. through the Research Council, Innovation Norway and the SketteFUNN scheme. When I attended the oil meeting of the rapporteur in Stavanger, Christine Sagen Helgø, invited a few weeks ago, this effort was brought forward as very important in the future by several participants. We're going to keep the pressure up. At the same time, we have lowered the tax on those who create and invest in Norwegian jobs, in order to secure them for the future. I register that the Workers' Party, at the latest yesterday, believes this shows that we do not understand Norway. But the last thing that a business life under heavy cost pressure needs is 12 billion. kr in tax increases, as proposed by the Workers' Party. There has never been a worse time to increase taxes than now. The development of Johan Sverdrup comes as an important vitamin injection for the oil and gas industry right now. So far, several Norwegian companies have been working on this project, among others. Aker Solutions, Aibel, Kværner Verdal and Kværner Stord, ABB and, no later than Monday, Odfjell Drilling. This ensures jobs for a demanding period of time. I am incredibly proud of the Norwegian supplier industry, which is very internationally competitive, and claim to be in the forefront of competence and quality. The Norwegian oil adventure has been an industrial adventure that has created hundreds of thousands of jobs and local value creation since the beginning of the 1960s. Sverdrup is the largest industrial project in Norway for several decades, and the investments related to the first stage of construction of the field are at 117 billion. kr. Although Norway is in transition and has to prepare for a future in which the value creation of oil and gas will play a slightly less role in the Norwegian economy than it has done in recent years, industry has a bright future. Norwegian oil and gas will help meet the world's energy needs for decades to come. In a world that is going to impose stricter climate requirements, we are well prepared. Our industry already lives well with the world's highest CO2 tax. Several measures have been taken to reduce emissions from the sector and the industry has been working on several fronts to see how they can further reduce their carbon footprint. We can be proud that we have an oil and gas industry in Norway that takes the climate challenge seriously. It will also make Norwegian oil and gas competitive in a greener future, which imposes stricter emission and new technology requirements. Johan Sverdrup will gain power from land from day one of his production period. With it large future emissions have been removed before they even occur. Sverdrup is a future field, an oil field we have every reason to be proud of, for several reasons. We have come a long way since the time Ed Seabourn proclaimed that the North Sea was an oil pool and Ekofisk set the start of the Norwegian oil adventure. Today we adopt the development of a new stage on this adventure. I believe it is appropriate to congratulate Norway on the day, and I look forward to the debate here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e417	As others have pointed out, this is the largest industrial project in Norway in many decades, and there will be very many jobs in a challenging time for the petroleum sector. The development and operation of the Johan Sverdrup field will generate large revenues for decades to come and many jobs over long periods of operation. In full field development, total investment is expected to be about 200 billion. 2015 crowns, and everyone understands that it gives good opportunities to the equipment industry that so far – and happily – has hijacked very large parts of the contracts for this field. Unlike what we saw just a few years ago, Norwegian suppliers are now competitive, and we have failed to see that the large contracts go to the shipyards in Asia or in Austen. We are very pleased about that, and it shows that change and competitiveness are not something to be taken for granted. We record that the oil and gas industry in Norway is undergoing a process of conversion in which both oil companies and the supplier industry continue to work to strengthen their own competitiveness, reduce costs and increase efficiency. The special feature of this expansion, except for the size of the field, is that the power demand for the Sverdrup field will be met by force from the start of production. It will reduce emissions from this field significantly, but with not very insignificant costs. The petroleum sector is subject to quota and already pays large sums for its emissions, and this is a broad consensus on policy. Due to the size of the Sverdrup find, the field must be extended to several stages of construction. Investment decision and submission of plans for further development and operation are expected in 2017, and planned start of production is in 2022. In the option option, the Progress Party has left a small section that applies to HMS, which is not completely for no reason. One has over time recorded that parts of the HMS work have become a parody that is efficiency limiting and leads to large additional costs. In debates on this issue, the industry has also admitted that there is a single point that challenges the legitimacy of the HMS work and that it is now going through with improvements. That's what it takes. It is also the signal from those added who have this regime around them daily in their work. No one is interested in HMS work being ridiculed and thus loses its meaning for safe and safe operation, so I am pleased with the signals that come to light that this work on a review of the HMS system is being prioritised. Otherwise, the Progress Party supports the requirements of the HMS standard for the award of contracts, in line with the contribution to the case-speaker today. A large part of the configuration debated today by the Committee includes, among other things: information on Norwegian emissions in the oil and gas sector. It is a fact that Norway's extraction of fossil resources is the most climate-efficient available, and is still looking for new cuts. That's good, but when one then asks the square argument that we have to leave large parts of the petroleum resources in the ground, it's a mistake of dimensions. On the day of its possible occurrence, production will be replaced by production in other countries that produce a much higher footprint in terms of climate and environmental conditions. If this is the goal, it simply does not solve the emissions challenges and the climate noise, as it is global. Johan Sverdrup's expansion will also be important for the Norwegian oil and gas industry, as the expansion coincides with a time of low oil prices and lower activity in the industry, and one sees that the Johan Sverdrup field is also important for other established infrastructure by the fact that oil and gas will be transported relatively to Mongstad and Kårstø, where modifications and operations will provide many jobs. The Johan Sverdrup field is one of the largest oilfields in the North Sea, and the field may have a lifetime of more than 50 years, perhaps up to 70–80 years. The decision to expand the field will increase Norwegian production over the years and will, as I said, extend the Norwegian oil age for many decades. I'm very happy about that. This production is needed in the energy mix in the world, as there are many decades before the need for fossil energy will be lower, and our production of this energy is demanded, giving jobs and the economy to our welfare society, and last but not least to the production that contributes at least to the emission of greenhouse gases. There is reason to congratulate all of us today, and thank the case-speaker Per Rune Henriksen for a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e449	I would also like to start by thanking the rapporteur for a good job and also the representative, Bru, for a good cooperation. I also want to be of those who congratulate ourselves on the decision we are going to make on the important extension of Johan Sverdrup today. Oil and gas activities are and will be a pillar of our society. It has contributed to a large and important industrial development, to technological development, and it has helped to develop the whole of society. It is an industry that has had great ring-effects for our whole country, and that will be important in the future. In the Christian People's Party, we have been particularly concerned that we want a larger extraction of oil and gas in existing fields. Because it's about the administration, that's now we have the chance to take it up. The day you shut down the field, it will be demanding and expensive to get started again. We have also been concerned with a further bet on looking for and extracting new fields, but have also been clear that we want a somewhat lower pace than what has been. At the same time, we've been busy protecting particularly vulnerable and valuable areas. It has also proved to be through the cooperation agreement we have with the government, where we have had an important impact on, for example. to protect the areas around the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja, Jan Mayen, etc. It also appeared in the debate and decisions taken on the opening of the Barents Sea south-east, where the Christian People's Party voted against the opening of the vulnerable areas north of that field. That debate is about the edge of the ice, which will be taken later today. We also believe that health, the environment and safety are important dimensions, also because it is an advantage for Norway. Large parts of the petroleum resources we know need to be located, and then greenhouse gas emissions from the extraction, technology, knowledge and costs will be collected. In order for Norway to be competitive, we must also be at the forefront in this respect. Therefore, power from land is an important key. In a difficult time for the whole industry, the expansion we're going to adopt today means enormously much. We're going through a transition to a low-carbon society, we're going through a green transition. We're going to use the technology workplaces, the competences that humans have, to make the transition we need into a greener society. Forces from countries are essential to reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. Strength from land is important where it is right, it has been especially important for us to clarify. Because it is not that every field can be electrified, but we believe that Utsira is one of the most suitable areas for it. Therefore, we are also very pleased that the Storting is tightening up the conclusion, decision and condition of today, and state that force from land must be in place for the whole area of Utsira by 2022. We also understand that dimensioning needs to be seen in the context, but connecting the platforms, i.e. Gina Krogh, Edvard Grieg, Ivar Aasen and Johan Sverdrup, is something that can be seen independently of the start-up of construction step 2. The same thing can be done by power cable, because it is fully possible that it can come earlier than the start-up. This is why we believe that there is great sense in seeing the link between the dimensioning and the expansion of phase 2, but at the same time it is clear that force from land for the whole area must be introduced by 2022. I also believe that the important decision we are making today, which we have been working for over a long time, is something that needs to have consequences for new expansions and new upgrades of existing fields, and that it must shape that work by the government. The size says clearly that this is what we think is right – when it is also right in the field in question, when conditions are ready to take effect from land. We are pleased that the Storting makes this decision, that we have put together one – at least – unanimous committee and a unanimous increase – behind the important decision to reduce or prevent more greenhouse gas emissions, and also the principle that force from countries must be the main rule. That has to be the starting point. There are good reasons why it shouldn't be done anywhere, but I'm very happy that we're succeeding in this, and that we're getting a range solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e470	Would the representative like to take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party with others?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e473	That's what I want.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e478	The representative, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e482	This is something we can tell our grandchildren about, said Statoil's search director when the Johan Sverdrup field was found in 2011. She can because it will be the next generations to manage the resources in the Sverdrup field. There is a certain historical suspense of the decision that is being taken today. This will be one of the giants in the Norwegian oil industry. Not since 1986 – 29 years ago – the Stortinget has taken a decision to expand an oil and gas field as large as it is today. If you just look at the oil resources, you haven't made such a significant decision on development since 1981, when the Goldlfak field was adopted. So it's really a big decision that the Storting is contributing to today. It is an important decision for the Norwegian petroleum industry, which consists of 200,000 persons employed – an industry that produces ring-effects across the country, which gives a large value creation and has made Norway a large, reliable and global energy supplier. The centre party believes that Norway has reason to be proud of the workplaces, knowledge and technology that exist in this industry. Stability and predictability have always been crucial in an industry where each project spans very many decades, and costs billions of dollars. That is why I am pleased that a broad majority of the Committee is essentially united on both the assessment of the current situation, the long-term petroleum policy and the PUD, the plan for development and operation, for this project that is being discussed today. In the case-law, the Committee expresses concerns about the Norwegian supplier industry. There is a signal that the government should take the most seriously, because it is an important joint responsibility for the authorities and for the industry that the difficult situation currently facing parts of the supply industry is actually addressed. Then we may disagree whether it is right to take action and what measures it is right to take. I'd like to say that the government and government parties are largely in a passive waiting-and-see attitude. That's what the Center Party thinks is too passive. We believe that it is possible and appropriate to support a number of measures that should now be assessed so that a vessel retains both the capacity and the competence of the Norwegian supplier industry in the knucklehead. We will need that competence and capacity in the years to come, even if the times are getting better, and it would be a pity if, in a period of decline, the industry were to be drained for skills that will be needed for it. There is no doubt that the situation in the supplier industry is partly the result of a high level of costs and that it is important and appropriate that both the supplier industry and oil and gas companies intervene in terms of cost levels. So I want to say that I was a little surprised at the state council statement in today's business today: «If more jobs are created because I am in contact with Konkraft, I am uncertain, Lien hasselles.» I think that's a strange statement, because the interaction between the company, the supplier industry and the authorities has always been important in the Norwegian oil industry. It may not have been so visible in rise times. Therefore, INTSOK or NORSK or Konkraft may not have been so very visible from 2003 onwards to today. However, they have been very important during the tough periods, and INTSOK, which was established in 1997, was extremely important in 1998 and 1999 when the recessions struck at that time, but also in order to contribute to the internationalisation of both the supplier and oil companies during the work of the central government. I'm a little surprised at that tone. I wish that we could have seen more jointly the measures taken from several of the batches in the suspension regarding the situation of the supplier industries. The Sverdrup field is not only historical because of the size of the resources, but also because it gives us an opportunity that the political parties have used to electrify an entire area on a Norwegian base. Electrification is one of the areas in which we can exploit access to renewable energy in our country. There has been an extensive debate on electrification of the fields at the height of Utsira. Last year, the Stortinget took a decision and it is followed up in the proposal under discussion today, and the Committee has also put in place a decision on the establishment by rightholders of an area solution covering the whole power demand of the four fields in 2020. It's important, and it's reorientation that's important for the whole industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e506	Petroleum industry is important for Norway. Over the past four decades, it has helped build a huge wealth and an industrial venture in Norway. With the decision we are making today regarding the Johan Sverdrup field, the petroleum industry will also be important in Norway for decades to come. I think there's little disagreement that this will be the way forward. But Norwegian petroleum industry and Norway are also facing a mining period. We have the discussion we have had for a long time about keeping the petroleum industry out of vulnerable areas such as the Lofoten, the Vesterålen and Senja, like the ice edge – which we will have a discussion about afterwards – the Moravian Banks and others. Norwegian petroleum activity needs to be seen in the context of the situation we are in internationally, that we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80-90 pst. towards 2050, and with the Norwegian commitment that, together with the EU, we will also reduce our emissions, by 40 pst. towards 2030. Therefore, the Left is pleased that we are now getting a solution forcefully from land in the Johan Sverdrup field, and that we will also get an area solution that will ensure that this is in place in 2022. I would also like to mention that it was important that last year the Storting took the initiative to address the issue of an area solution with power from land at the entire Utsira height, and that this is now a basis for this matter. But then it's the international perspective. There is no doubt that there is a crisis in the Norwegian petroleum industry. So far, 22,000 jobs have disappeared. We have a situation of low oil prices that there is every reason to believe, whether it is because of shale oil – which brings down the price – or increased production in Saudi Arabia, or because of the long-term situation, we have to reduce the consumption of oil internationally in the years to come. There is no doubt that for Norway too there will be resources that are going to lie down and that we cannot pick up in the years to come. But it's essentially the oil price that's going to determine which of the resources are going to be left in the ground. In the Johan Sverdrup field: If there is one field you should run, there is exactly one field that has the profitability of the Johan Sverdrup field, where you can have a stable, low-priced production that can last for many years. For the Left, there is no contradiction in putting all the forces on us to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. This applies on land, by reducing emissions in production on the base – as we also do in the Johan Sverdrup field – and by being at the forefront of international efforts to develop a technology and a business that reduces emissions. What we now need to put our forces on is to use the ability we have to use the expertise and the knowledge that is in the petroleum industry to start a completely necessary green shift, whether it is a commitment to renewable energy, or to use clean energy in the traditional industry or in other industries that have a much smaller greenhouse gas emissions and footprint in terms of just greenhouse gas emissions. I am pleased that there is broad consensus in the Committee on the main lines of the matter. But I would also like to address the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party, not least, that the government begs to look at the possibility of getting a «full or partial electricisation of the Gudrun field and the Sleipner field».
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e525	The proposal referred to by the representative has already been duly addressed, so it will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e528	SV is voting against the development of Johan Sverdrup and proposes that the development be postponed indefinitely, and we believe that the development is facing a real dilemma between jobs and incomes today and climate change and long-term sustainability. This is a dilemma that several parties should be discussing instead of voting for the development of autopilot. The Johan Sverdrup field is one of the biggest oil fields in Norwegian history, with a lifetime of 50 to 70 years. The decision to expand the field will dramatically increase Norwegian oil production and extend Norwegian oil dependence for several decades. It's a paradox, at a time when world oil use needs to go down in order to combat climate change. Norway must leave oil. Data from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change show that the oil, coal and gas we have already found contains five to nine times more CO2 than the world can emit if we are to avoid the worst impacts of climate change. Then we have to stop investing in fossil energy and turn investment into renewable solutions. In particular, we need to avoid investments in infrastructure and products and production that lock Norway and the world to large emissions for a long time, as Johan Sverdrup is doing. Norway is a rich country. We've made a lot of money extracting fossil oil and gas over decades. At the same time, we know that the world must let fossil energy lie unused if we are to combat climate change. It is then fair that Norway takes part in this responsibility by leaving the oil in the Johan Sverdrup field. In Norway, we're under a millionth of the world's population, but we're responsible for 2 pst. of the world's oil production and above 3 pst. of the production of gas in the world. In other words, if we are to stop dangerous climate change, we are to get a far greater share than our fair share. If we don't want to reduce production, who's going to do it? We've waited too long for the switch. In Norway, we are expecting an investment rate in the oil industry that we never know could last forever. Decreases in oil prices have contributed to perms and increasing unemployment. We in SV have for many decades warned against a high rate of oil investment, and therefore we have voted against more oil expansions and for the allocation of more land for oil exploration. The big parties in Norwegian politics have wanted a different development. Therefore, the transformation that is now coming will be more challenging, more demanding, but equally necessary. The size response to the fall in an already excessive oil industry cannot be new giant investment in oil. It's not forward-looking. Now, if we are to convert to a greener, sustainable society, lower oil investments will give greater room in the economy to other investments. We must make sure to use the expertise of Norway from the oil age, to develop solutions to the climate problem and to build a greener Norwegian business. For this reason, we will take initiatives towards the Norwegian economy in SV to develop a broad, green migration programme for the Norwegian economy, in order to ensure workers and to use the expertise of the oil age to develop existing and future industries. We have already put forward proposals on the deployment of zero-emission technologies in maritime transport, demonstration installations for sea winds and a major effort to expand rail in the coming years. In our alternative to the revised national budget, we also propose a separate action package on unemployment and on green migration. At a time when it is often heard that all parties can agree on a green shift, a transition to a zero-emission society, it cannot be right when the majority today decides that Norway's largest industrial project in this century will be an oil expansion. Last year, SV took the initiative of an alliance on the Stortinget to ensure that emission-free power is required from land to Johan Sverdrup and other fields on the Utsira Height. Without it, not all of Statoil’s plans for further expansion were based on force from land, and without it, Gina Krog, Ivar Aasen and Edvard Grieg emissions, which together account for 275 000 tonnes, would not have had to shut down gas turbines and use land-based power from 2022 at the latest. Although SV is now in favour of the development of Johan Sverdrup, we are voting in favour of the demands expressed by the majority at Stortinget. Oil and gas industries have increased their emissions by 91 pst. from 1990 until today. The growth of oil industry emissions has been the driving force behind the growth of Norway’s total greenhouse gas emissions and is a main reason why Norway is struggling to achieve the objectives adopted by the Stortinget in climate policy. It doesn't last any longer. The oil industry can no longer be allowed to destroy Norwegian climate targets. That recognition must soon come to others as well. SV will continue to be a driver for climate change requirements for all oil and gas projects, as we have been at the Utsira Height. The Stone Age did not end because of lack of rock, and the fossil age will not end because of lack of fossil resources, but because we have to stop burning them if we are to take care of life on earth somewhat as we know it today. For us in Norway, this means that the oil age must definitely go to the end. The time for major oil expansions in Norway is over. A no to Johan Sverdrup from Stortinget would be a clear signal to Norway and the international community that it is time to speed up the process of conversion, not oil extraction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e554	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e557	I thought all the suggestions were taken up by others, but if there's someone who isn't, I'll do it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e562	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås then addressed the proposals No. 5, 6 and 7, as the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party, are behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e565	Every five years the pope sends out a shepherding letter on how righthearted Catholics should live their lives. Today he has sent out such a letter, in which he apparently calls for an ethical and economic revolution to prevent catastrophic climate change. Such shepherding letters have historically been of great importance. Many people believe, for example: a shepherding letter to improve the social situation of workers in the 1800s speeded up the fight for better conditions and rights. And while the 1800s and 1900s clearly stood in the sign of the labour movement, the overall political perspective of our century is the need to adapt human activity to the limits of the Earth's environment of life. I assume that few representatives use the pope's shepherding letter as a political guide, but it is ironic that the Stortinget is giving a clear signal today to contribute an additional 900 million tonnes of CO2. 18 times Norway’s annual emissions, from the Johan Sverdrup field to global warming. This is a field that's going to produce far beyond the 2070s, and so we're doing this at the same time as we're talking more and more about Norway being a low-carbon society and carbon-neutral in 2050. The Green Party has made it clear that we will vote against the plan for the development and operation of the Johan Sverdrup field. However, a large majority of Stortinget still refuses to lean on a small finger to limit Norway’s sovereign greatest climate impact, namely oil and gas extraction. The decision-making process in oil matters is chemically free of the possibility to assess climate impacts. All decisions have been made, and all investments are locked when the Stortinget finally has a sort of debate about yes or no to opening. Once it is decided that Sverdrup will be expanded, the Environmental Party supports the Green Decision to electrify the field. It is better than nothing, and it contributes to a proper direction in Norwegian energy development. But electrification cutters 1-2 pst. of the greenhouse gas emissions that Sverdrup will produce, and it is almost provocative to hear one representative after another present this measure as a major and decisive contribution to ensuring that the Johan Sverdrup field is not a climate problem. We know, as many people have been asking, that depending on who you ask, 70-90 pst. of the remaining fossil resources of the earth remain in the ground if we're going to have a certain chance to concentrate on two degrees of global warming. Today’s decision presupposes that someone else takes this responsibility, and these others are very much, if not exclusively, countries that would be much more expensive to take this responsibility than it would be for Norway. In addition, the Sverdrup project welds Norwegian economy and business life into the fossil age for even more decades. Sverdrup will link heavy resources, large technology environments and tens of thousands of highly skilled people who should have been thrown into the development of Norway’s green business now. The decision on the Sverdrup field is not comparable to the decision on the Ekofisk field. It was a decision we used to make. The decision on the Sverdrup field is a decision we're going to lose on history. Today, in addition to voting against the development itself, the Greens are going to propose that greenhouse gas emissions from both the production and combustion of petroleum become part of the future plans for expansion on Norwegian soil. We also propose that the power of ocean-based renewable energy should be linked to the area solution, and we are quite surprised that this proposal has not received wider support, because one of the good aspects of the electrification of Sverdrup is that it is now finally establishing an infrastructure that opens up completely new opportunities for the development of liquid sea winds. The size has been dealt with by another proposal from the MDG on a serious seawinding. If there is a real interest in transferring skills and technology from the petroleum industry to future industries, which is so much to talk about, we need to use these kinds of possibilities. Together with other parties, we also promote proposals to carry out a thorough analysis of climate risk in the development phase, and to investigate also the electrification of the Gudrun field and the Sleipner field. Opening the Johan Sverdrup field is a decision across all climate targets, contrary to a fair distribution of the world's remaining carbon budget, and there is a postponement of the green shift in Norwegian business. I hope that the next major industrial decision by Stortinget will be more forward-looking than this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e587	The President then perceived that the representative has taken up the proposal on which the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e590	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e595	The representative of Rasmus Hansson has then taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e599	Let me start by saying that this day I have enjoyed. As many of the speakers have noted, it is a historic day for Norway’s largest and most important industry. I would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for their good work and for their good and wise decisions. The history of Norwegian oil and gas production is in many ways a fantastic adventure, and it did not start far from the field development we are discussing today. In fact, it's been more than 40 years since the first time oil and gas were discovered in this area, and because of innovation and new ways of seeing the North Sea on the well drilled in our millennium 200 meters away from the first exploration well, Aldous and Avaldsnes, which is today the Johan Sverdrup development. Where we've got 50 years to go, Johan Sverdrup will give us 50 years to go. It's been the first time since the Goldfak expansion in the 1980s that we in the Stortinget have been dealing with a matter of this magnitude. It will generate in the order of 1 300 billion. kr in income. 700 of these billion will end up in the state treasury. It will generate 51 000 annual works in Norway in the first phase of development. When it comes into operation, Johan Sverdrup’s first stage of development will employ between 3000 and 4000 people in Norway. The oil platform is the largest that is ever built on a Norwegian base, with 550 beds. It is the greatest power-from-country solution ever built, and every day from the time I received a plan for expansion and operation, until the first oil production in 2019, it will be invested between 2 and 3 million every hour. kr in this amazing project. The area is approximately 200 km2. So it's the size of the whole region I live in, the Trondheims region, or the whole Subsea Valley cluster in the East. It won't just benefit Rogaland. This is a project that will benefit the whole country, through both the distribution of revenue and the distribution of the direct employment impact that the project will produce, and will ensure Norway's role as a stable energy exporter to our friends in Europe and elsewhere for generations ahead of us. The total investment, as the Stortinget will be familiar with, is of the order of 120 billion. kr, and income will not only finance activities that our generation needs to finance – it will also create employment and values for our grandchildren. I don't think it's very secret that the situation for the Norwegian supplier industry would be very different and much more demanding if Johan Sverdrup had not gone through Stortinget today. I am pleased to see that Norwegian suppliers again demonstrate their strength and competitiveness, and I am happy to see that the close interaction between operators and suppliers on Norwegian base – which has been part of the success of the work that has been done on Norwegian base for generations already – once again results in large contracts being delivered to Norwegian yards and Norwegian suppliers. It shows an industry that is well-introduced with a completely necessary transition and adaptation to a new competitive situation. There are still many contracts and great opportunities for Norwegian suppliers in the time ahead of us. This is also the basis for what many people have had to say that Johan Sverdrup from the start of production will be powered by land, but it is also this expansion that allows for power-from-country solutions in the other fields of the Utsira Height, as mentioned in the Proposition. More is happening on the Norwegian base than Johan Sverdrup. We have produced oil and gas from Norwegian base for almost 50 years, approx. half of the extractable resources on Norwegian pedestal are left. It's produced a greater proportion of the oil than the gas. There's a lot more gas left. There's a lot of resources left on the Norwegian base. We also obviously have very competent both operators and suppliers who will enable the production of these resources in the future, and although there is now a somewhat demanding situation in the industry, it is still our greatest and most important industry. If you combine those who work with energy production in other parts of the world, i.e. suppliers to other bases in the world, and those who are suppliers and employees in the production of oil and gas on Norwegian base, we are talking about 300,000 people directly related to the energy production of hydrocarbons, mainly in the production of sockets around the world. This industry is the largest whether measured in value creation, in incomes of the state fund, in investments — there is the sovereign largest, almost larger than all other industries combined — in export value or not least, the most important of the Storting, in financing the welfare state. It is also, as the representative Arnstad was probably involved, Norway's sovereign main district industry. Along the coast, from Fredrikstad to Kirkenes, all municipalities have companies that deliver to the industry, and in almost all Norwegian municipalities we find people who work to produce energy from the base. This ratio is important to include when discussing the framework for activity on a Norwegian base. I also want to say that this industry is not only big, it is also one of the most important sources of competence for developing other industries, which we have seen recently, whether it be sea-based renewable power generation, aquaculture, fisheries or other important Norwegian industries. So, as many have pointed out, demanding times for Norwegian pedestal, but let me start by saying that when I took a seat in the Ministry of Oil and Energy in 2013, with oil prices well over $100 the barrel, I began to clearly address the need to reduce costs. The long growth period behind us, in reality from 2001 to 2013, and in particular from 2010 to 2013, contributed to a sharp rise in costs, not only in Norway but also in Norway. It was absolutely necessary to reduce the cost of producing oil and gas on a Norwegian base. We have also seen a falling oil price and a failure in the cash flow of the companies. These are the companies that have to address and deal with. This applies to suppliers and operators on a Norwegian base, as is the case in many other places. But there's reason to remember when we're discussing this, that we're from two historical record years. 2013 and 2014 were historical record years. The level of investment in Norwegian capital in 2015 and 2016 is going to be the third and fourth highest level of investment we have ever seen. I think it's important to bring that back carpet. So there's no problem for me to admit that for those who lose their jobs, this is a real crisis. There is no problem for me to admit that for many of the suppliers and for many of the oil companies, this is a very demanding situation. But I'm also glad to see that the opposite of what happened when Per Rune Henriksen was State Secretary at the OED is happening now – a lot of contracts come home. In the previous period, the Norwegian supplier industry lost five out of five major contracts. I am happy to see that the supplier industry has strengthened its competitiveness and now wins large contracts for Norwegian shipyards. We're all supposed to be happy about that. On the part of the government, we have already strengthened petroleum research. We have a close dialogue with all the players in the trade unions, in the supplier industry and in industry. With that I see the time running out, so I get back to the cake reference to the representative Henriksen on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e632	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e635	I can assure the Council of State that the effort to address cost developments in the industry did not start at his inception in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, which was also very important to us when we were in political leadership in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. We viewed this as a major societal challenge, and we put in place measures to do these things – measures that have led to the Norwegian supplier industry hijacking contracts today. What we see from the government now is that passivity is being raised to a virtue in the fight to secure a future for the petroleum industry. We see in the newspaper state council that this is not a crisis, we see the Stavanger rapporteur saying that this is a crisis, and we see Steel Chicken City from IKM saying that this is a crisis. Obviously, the councils will do nothing more than he does. I would then like to ask the question whether it was wrong to take policy initiatives in 1993, 1997 and 2001, or do these initiatives last forever?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e642	I'm very uncertain whether the industry is worthy of our standing here and polishing over what we're going to call this. I am, as I said in my post, fully aware that for those who are personally affected, this is a crisis. I am fully aware that this is a demanding time for many companies. I would like to say that what is most important – what is very pleasing, and which is really important for the sustainable future creation of value from Norwegian capital, employment and income to the state fund – is precisely stability and predictability in the framework conditions, and that is the broad, big compromises in the Stortinget. I believe that the representative Henriksen and I today can rejoice that we are not only in this matter, but in several other cases during the day, the industry shows that the large, wide-ranging oil policy compromises are still solid, with a stable, predictable framework and access to new areas. That's what will ensure employment and value creation even in the time ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e649	This isn't about terminology and what we call the situation. What this is all about is whether one recognises that the situation is so serious that action is required. This is the largest industry and the largest industry in Norway, with 240 000 jobs. 20 000 of them have been lost in one year, and we have not seen one action from the Council of State to make an effort in this area. My fear, of course, is that we get a higher unemployment rate. This is a common situation for those who get into unemployment – I myself have been unemployed for over a year, so I know what it is. There is also a terrible situation for Norwegian society, and there will be a tough situation for the industry when we know that there will be an upsurge in a few years. Are we going to have a new cost gap because the companies are going to acquire competence and capacity in a tight market? That's what we're afraid of. Therefore, we will have measures to mitigate the fall and enable us to have an effective industry that goes into better times in a few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e656	The competitiveness of industry is primarily the responsibility of industry – joint suppliers and operators. To the description of reality, when the representative Per Rune Henriksen is very busy calling this a crisis, I want to remind you once again that the level of investment in 2015 and 2016 is going to be higher than it was in 2009, in 2010, in 2011 and 2012, and then we had the record years 2013 and 2014. We see this year and next year a lower level of activity than in 2013 and 2014, but we come from a historically high level. It is absolutely necessary that industry, suppliers and operators address the cost developments we have seen. The government has delivered in terms of new areas, we have delivered in terms of stability and predictability in the framework conditions, and we have strengthened the authorities' efforts for research and technology development on a Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e661	The next replicator is Kjell Ingolf Roppstad. The President makes it clear that the line list is now fully drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e666	First, I would like to say that I agree with the Council of State that it is essential now to pursue a predictable and good policy to ensure business development and safe jobs – it is growth-promoting tax havens, and there is investment in infrastructure, research and technology development. There's a lot of good going on. We're in a difficult time, while we know that it's also going to be a conversion. Then it's about maintaining competence, securing every individual who loses his job, and hopefully seeing a cost development that makes Norwegian industry even more competitive, so that we can further develop the skills we have. My question – since the list is full – is about the change that Stortinget is making in conclusion and conditions, point 3, where we do not follow the Council of State to connect to other construction steps, which are planned to start in 2022, but where we say that power from land will come to the whole area by 2022. My question is, how does the Council of State – in its dialogue with the companies – think of ensuring that it is fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e673	I can assure you that the Ministry of Oil and Energy is going to follow up all the decisions taken by Stortinget. That's how it should and must be when you have a minority government. We have always been very busy getting to the connection between 2022 and other construction steps. It's natural that we know what other construction steps should look like. It is not necessarily the case that the whole other construction steps must be in place before the power-from-country solution is in place, but it is important that we know how the numbers — for example. the power demand in other stages of construction and would like the power demand in the other smaller fields of the Utsira height – will be. That's why we've always been concerned that these things should be seen in context. The ministry lives well with the decision that has been made, and will follow it up, as long as we can be sure that we know of the power requirements of the second construction steps of the Johan Sverdrup field before the device is in place
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e680	The Council of State is initially entitled to maintain that competitiveness is the industry’s own responsibility, but there has always been an interaction between authorities and the supplier industry and oil companies — especially in times of recession. NORSK gave us a much better collaboration between the supplier industry and the oil companies. INTSOK gave the start to the internationalisation of the supplier industry, and KonKraft led a very sensible dialogue between authorities and industry leaders. It seems as if the council and government are now simply sitting quietly in the boat hoping for this to blow over, and then really my question is: When does the situation get serious, or what is going to happen to make the council think that the situation is serious enough not only to sit and dismiss the comments that come, but actually is willing to put in tools? And what tools could the government intend to deploy if the situation gets serious?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e687	I believe that the most important thing the government can and should contribute to is stability and predictability in the framework conditions – this with projects to produce oil and gas for a total of 15 to 50 years. It is about giving industry access to new areas, which the government is doing, with good support from, among other things. The centre party. And we have already strengthened the authorities' efforts to strengthen technology development on the base through the DEMO 2000 programmes and the PETROMAKS. Then I want to make sure that I talk to both the supplier industry and operators regularly. I do not hear any call from them about strong changes in the framework conditions, I must admit that. So I want to remind you that we want a higher activity level on Norwegian pedestal this year and next year than in six of the eight years that the red-green government set, without hearing any cry about any crisis at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e695	I will read something from the comments on page 17 in the setting. The Committee shall discuss the following: ‘For the part of the Edvard Grieg field, the connection to the area solution for power from land will lead to the phasing out of all own power generation from gas turbines.’ Then I jump a little bit further into the notes, where it says: ‘The Committee notes that the proposition points out that the industry has little experience with electric boilers and that a qualification process is considered necessary. The Committee expects such a process to be carried out in advance of the decision on how to meet the heat needs of Edvard Grieg.’ My question is very simple: Has the Council noticed this remark, and will he follow it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e710	I noticed that Stortinget has been concerned about the heat demand in Grieg. Of course, this is a work the oil and energy department will follow up. There are already assessments of how this is going to be solved, and as far as I know, this is just one of the things the Storting has been concerned about, namely, that the assessment of the boilers is part of that work. So this, of course, we'll follow up from the authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e715	The green certificate regime is inside something that looks like a crash brake. That regime is very good, but it hasn't developed any new technology, and it hasn't created very many jobs. Sea winds, on the other hand, have the potential for both. It's a giant potential energy resource, and it's a kind of technology that's close to the offshore competence that we already have. And then the Johan Sverdrup field, with all its bad characteristics, also has the good feature that it is both a profitable field and is therefore rigged infrastructureally in a way that could form a platform for sea wind development. Has the Council of State begun to see a little light on the possibility of using the Johan Sverdrup platform as a possible platform for a Norwegian sea wind bet?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e722	First, I would like to say that I do not agree that these certificates have not contributed to the development of new technology. This has been one of the many contributions from Europe that have contributed to the cost of, for example: the production of wind per kWh has fallen, and has helped to a large extent by German instruments to put in place more wind, but it has certainly been a contribution to the Norwegian-Swedish window building that has taken place. So when it comes to the issue of sea wind: it is absolutely right to make it a reality in the future, then we have to have an infrastructure in place, and power from land can be examples of the kind of infrastructure we need. So I believe that how to solve the power demand on Sverdrup, outside the framework of which the Stortinget now says that the Ministry of Oil and Energy has to set up the Sverdrup expansion, almost the developers themselves have to make their own assessments of.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e731	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e734	Petroleum activities have for a long time been one of the carriers of the Norwegian economy. It is Norway’s largest industry measured in value creation in state income and in investment. It will continue to be the petroleum industry for a long time. Development of the Sverdrup field is one of the largest industrial projects in Norway in several decades. This will lead to significant activities in both development and operation, and will also have a good impact by creating jobs both regionally and nationally. But equally important: it will bring great income to the community. The Norwegian petroleum tax system has served Norway well for decades, and the values have benefited the entire Norwegian community, because when some companies are allowed to use the Community's resources, the community has also benefited. This is rather the exception than the rule when looking at countries that have been equally fortunate in finding large petroleum resources. The usual story is that some have earned themselves very rich, while society has stood back with little. In Norway, we chose another route. We demanded that those who were serving to extract the community's resources should pay back. They did, and it will also happen with the Johan Sverdrup field. Only during the first stage of construction is the revenue estimated at about 1000 billion. EUR 2015, and the majority of this is due to the Norwegian society in the form of tax revenue. Nevertheless, recent developments in Norway’s largest industry have been poor. The consequences of cutting and alerting cuts affect and affect many, including outside industry. But what essentially distinguishes this situation from other downfalls in the past is the government's lack of political will to do something to prevent the adverse effects we now see. Although there is broad agreement on the overall objectives and instruments for Norwegian oil and gas activities, we still rely on measures for the present situation. We see that the number of unemployed has increased sharply, and that many of these are from the oil sector. We need action, but obviously the government has no concrete plans to do so. The development of the Johan Sverdrup field has so far awarded major contracts to the Norwegian supplier industry. But no matter how positive it is, we can't let the jubilee over the contract award so far overshadow the fact that we have great challenges to deal with. The supplier industry reports a sudden stoppage in maintenance and investment, leading to mass redundancies. When unemployment rises and there are so many unemployed people directly or indirectly linked to industry, it is noted across the country, for not only the supply industries providing services related to extraction are affected but also more traditional continental industries. This affects many, because after the sale of oil and gas, the supplier industry is our largest export industry. This is an industry that delivers knowledge-based goods and services, not only to Norwegian capital but also to a tough international market. With all their jobs, their value creation and their competence, it's a very important part of our oil wealth as the oil fund itself. We politicians cannot sit here and override the market, but we must equally fully address the challenges we see. We need to listen to those who know the industry and find both long-term and short-term solutions for what benefits society as a whole – and not least: we need to take care of the skills we have, because knowledge is the future, and business will have a central role to play in future value creation, employment and societal development. Even in a low-carbon society, there will be demand for petroleum products, but it is also important that the industry continues to seek new opportunities to reduce its own emissions and to produce lower carbon footprints than they do today. This is important in order to achieve the climate objectives we have set, but also in order to maintain the competitiveness of industry internationally. We need long-term strategies to address the low-carbon society and increase the use of low-carbon technologies. We also need long-term and short-term strategies to maintain Norwegian income and to maintain low unemployment. But then the government and the majority must also show political will to prevent the adverse effects we are now seeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e749	It is a strange experience to be here today, at a time of increasing unemployment in the petroleum industry, and to hear about the Socialist Left Party's desire to stop the expansion of Johan Sverdrup, perhaps the most important industrial project of our time – a project that will create new jobs, provide work to companies that are struggling with competitive droughts, and income to the big community similar to an entire state budget. I very much remember the Norwegian oil and gas annual conference in 2014. On stage, among other things, SV's fiscal spokesman, Snorre Serigstad Valen, and I believe that he said that Norwegian oil and gas industries had a bright future. In addition, Serigstad Valen said that the industry had to adapt to the changing climate, that the industry had to work harder to reduce emissions. The industry has responded, and today we are dealing with the plan for the operation and expansion of the Johan Sverdrup field, which includes a power-from-country solution. Johan Sverdrup will be electrified from day one. But even though Johan Sverdrup is electrified, perhaps creating 51,000 annual works and several thousand new jobs, invests for 240 billion. kr, receives an income equivalent to an entire state budget, creates activity in almost the whole country, in almost all the municipalities of the country, and in addition is based on the Socialist Left Party's own St.meld. No 28 for 2010–2011, An industry for the future, they still say no today. During the debate on St.meld. No 28, An industry for the future, the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen also took the floor, and he said, ‘In addition to the wealth of oil and gas resources for Norway, it is a gift that the oil in Norway has contributed to greater value creation, better distribution and better life for many in Norway, taking into account the environment and other industries when decisions are taken.’ You can wonder what's happened in two years. Also Industry Energy believes that SV has gone too far. To the class struggle this weekend, Leif Sande says that it now seems that SV has broken all the ties to the trade movement once and for all. I understand Leif Sande in Industry Energy very well. Johan Sverdrup is a good project, which provides well-being and jobs throughout the country. Like I said, Sverdrup is a good project. We're going through a transformation, we're going into a new era, and then it's important that we have good foundations that give the state good income, so that we can achieve that change in a good way. The decisions we are making here today, which means that we are providing the country with good income, that we are getting good space, that we can carry out the transitions to a green shift that we have to do, in a much better way than by saying no to these revenues, that we refuse to these jobs and that we reject the development that industry is also facing, and that we also need to contribute to the transition that we all long for. It's especially to hear it, and it's especially to say no to such an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e767	We have recently seen that there is still both vitality and competitiveness in the Norwegian supplier industry. It is very gratifying that large assignments for the Johan Sverdrup development have gone to Norwegian supplier companies, which in strong international competition show that they intend to hijack important contracts. For me, who comes from Stord and Hordaland, it has been an extraordinarily good atmosphere at home since Kværner Stord was recently awarded a major and important Johan Sverdrup contract. Our oil rights offices can still play a role as important contributors to technological and competence development, and not least as apprentice factories for future skilled workers, which the country desperately needs. While the government is talking about a necessary transition to a new normal that no one knows exactly what it means, the IEA points out that, in order to avoid energy supply disruption by 2030, too large annual investments will be needed in order to compensate for declining production in existing fields. And the world needs more energy, and even in the moderate climate-friendly scenario, the two-degree goal, the IEA's estimate is that the world needs 37 pst. more energy in 2040. The government's eagerness to talk down the industry runs counter to all the optimism surrounding the last round of allocations, with great expectations for new findings in the Barents Sea as well. Together with new optimism for new findings and opportunities in the North Sea and in the Norwegian Sea, this implies that our supplier industry must be preserved and developed and not built down. The development of Johan Sverdrup would raise the Norwegian supplier industry through a difficult period before the activity would rise again for reasons I have just mentioned. In spite of Norwegian allocations so far, it is unfortunately a fact that foreign content in these contracts is high and growing, and it is considered fairly certain that the last two platforms will go to Asia. Then Statoil, which controls about 80 pst. of the activity on the Norwegian pedestal, while also drastically reducing maintenance and modification in order to prioritize short-term dividends, undermines this common objective of competence and capacity that we would totally need when the upturn comes. When the authorities at the beginning of our oil-earth broke down 'the ten oil-bodas' and adopted the petroleum-slave, it was to have a foundation to secure both the industrial and financial benefits of the activity on the base. When operators down prioritize Norwegian suppliers in favour of foreign suppliers, which subsequently show that they do not have the ability to deliver on time, quality and diet, it is high time to re-establish the kerosene and test whether the company delivers in line with the Storting's intentions. It becomes unacceptable if future expansions on Norwegian pedestals in general, and Johan Sverdrup in particular, stand out as Asian industrial venture rather than Norwegian industrial ventures. I would like to remind you that the Oil Directorate and the Oil and Energy Department have seen enough to sharpen the tone of the oil companies because, by pushing on the project, they have seen optimum use of resources in danger, which are also contrary to the petroleum laws. The government's definition of active enterprise policy now appears to be general tax relief and reversal of the outdated tightening of the permit law. There may be a lack of imagination, but there is probably more to traditional right-wing policy that the invisible hand of the market should deal with all situations. Unfortunately, the result will not be visible. While the government hesitates, calls both businesses and active action, and we in the Labour Party have presented our ten-point plan for action. In addition, the government should listen to the parties’ demands for more labour market measures and BIO means of competence development, in general combined with additional relaxations in the permitting legislation, with 52 weeks in length over the period of leave as an important instrument. We must also bear in mind that the current technology and competence environment in the oil industry will certainly form an important part of the basis of green and resilient technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e795	Today, I think we can stress that last year's June decision on electrification of the Utsira Height was correct, even though the Minister of Oil and Energy opposed everything he could. The decision at that time made it clear what was the greatest political uncertainty in the major project we are dealing with. It is doubtful that the development of Johan Sverdrup is important and comes in a very favourable time, as the whole petroleum industry is in a very demanding time. "Crise," says Høres Christine Sagen Helgø. «Crise», says oil supplier Ståle Kyllingstad. ‘Crise’ we have to assume that the more than 20,000 people who have lost their jobs in recent years are saying. The time that is coming is getting much worse, says Norsk Industri. It also says the Shipowners' Association and the SSB, and the NHO, through its barometer last week, confirms exactly the same thing: the time coming is getting far worse in the labour market. 2016–2017 will be difficult. The availability is going to be high, and it's going to be constantly higher than in the eight years before this government joined — constantly higher than in the eight years before this government joined. Crisis for people, but not for industry, says the Secretary of State for Oil and Energy, while allowing himself to relate to the proposals made in the matter. We have not said that the proposals have been promoted as a phase of the solution in the situation, but that is far more than what the Council of State has done, because he has done nothing in view of the current situation. Over the period 2005–2013, 350,000 more people were employed, 200,000 more were employed in the private sector, despite the greatest setback in the world economy. High employment and a good economy was something that the government took over. Taxlets have been the mantra of this government and are the answers of this government to any challenge experienced – tax relief for individuals with wealth. It is tempting in the debate we are now hearing – not least from the representative Tina Bru, who uses it as an argument – to hear what positive results it has given in the current situation that the government has prioritised tax laws as case No. 1, and in response to all the challenges facing society in the labour market. It would have been interesting to get this into the debate, because it's an essential part of the big message we're dealing with. So the representatives of the government parties say that the most important thing we can do now is to ensure stability and stable framework conditions. Yes, the working party is 100 pst. behind it. But then I don't understand why the Right uses all its power to try to create uncertainty about what other parties think about predictability for the future. That's what they're using their political commitment to now -- talking more about parties than what they want to do themselves, in a situation where, in a short time, over 20,000 people have lost their prospects through income and work. Some people may have got new jobs, but the time we're going to go into is going to be far more demanding, if we're going to believe Norwegian Industry, the Shipowners' Association, the SSB and the NHO. That's normal organizations the government listens to. Then my question is, what will the Minister of Oil and Energy do so Norwegian oil know-how does not confuse and disappear under his direction of the department? It would have been interesting to know: How does the Minister of Oil and Energy think about the time we now go into, in the short picture 2016-2017? For so far, in two years, he has said nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e812	I've begun to get used to these very indignant contributions from Terje Aasland that are beginning to get to the bottom of most of the debates we have about oil here. I have to say that I don't recognize myself in that criticism. I think it's strange to stand on the Spokesman's chair and say that we're spending more time talking about the politics of other parties. I think I had one sentence in my article on the Workers' Party – one sentence about what they're doing, and that's that their only answer in the situation we're in now is to raise taxes on business. I thought that was quite right to point out. I did not spend any more time talking about the Workers' Party. But more people today have called for the government to use political power to increase the level of activity on the pedestal, and fear not: we already do. We have record calls in the TFO rounds, we fought for the Johan Sverdrup field that we are adopting today – so that it would not be exposed even if the Labour Party and the majority on the Stortinget wanted something else in the first place – and we have proposed a note in the setting where we call about the petroleum legislation. Predictable and stable framework conditions are the most important. But this shows the big difference on the right-hand side and the left-hand side of Norwegian policy. We believe our most important task as politicians is to create a secure and predictable framework around our industries. Investment decisions, employment and dividends shall not be determined by the Storting; they shall be determined by general meetings and the boardrooms. The left-hand side, we believe that the Storting should put ourselves up to everything. We believe that these are limits to policy. The Labour Party sees the need for stronger control over the industry from the authorities, and together with the Centre Party, the eight measures proposed in the setting of Johan Sverdrup – perhaps in their own frustration over what happened when they themselves put in government and all the contracts for the major expansions went abroad. They want, among other things: ensuring that petroleum-disciplinary lines in secondary schools are not laid down – a somewhat remarkable proposal. We share the concern that petroleum professionals in high school are now facing learning challenges. That's a lift we all have to take together. That is why we have launched a professional initiative to enhance the quality of education. We've also increased the apprentice grant, which is the one thing that all businesses highlight as the absolutely most important thing to be able to accept apprentices. However, there is a need to dimension the provision of education according to the needs of business. It's a long tradition in Norway, that's what the county councils do in cooperation with the social partners every year. To do something else is to trick the students. We know that the biggest reason for 'dropout' among professionals is when they don't get a place to learn. This is why it is not possible to provide an education offer that does not have a free apprenticeship at the other end. There are already processes in place, both in the oil and gas industries and in other forums outside the industry, with a view to transferring skills and technology from one industry to another. There is also something the Workers' Party has been talking about here today. We believe that the industry and businesses themselves are best placed to identify the profitable and useful transfer value of both expertise and technology from oil and gas activities to other industries — not necessarily the Storting. It is striking to hear a Workers' Party that directed the country when five out of five major contracts went abroad, now criticizing us for doing too little. They say we're talking down the industry. But everyone in this room who heard my post instead, can't possibly mean it. It's strange to claim something like that. We are not the one who said a year ago that Norway could not be unaffected by the fact that two thirds of the fossil resources had to be under the base, as Jonas Gahr Støre said. Then he fixed it up, but he still says that we can't be untouched by it. What does that even mean? It is not we who will discuss the degree of extraction in the fields on the Norwegian base, as Mrs Marthinsen in the Workers' Party raised. And we're not the ones that have raised doubts about developments in the Barents Sea, as the Workers' Party is about to do and will do in the next matter we're going to discuss here in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e829	Today is a big day. The oil and gas industry in Norway is our second-largest and most important industry, and it is an industry that is distributed across the whole country. It has been and is an industry that has increased the competence and development of technology in Norway over several decades. I myself have traveled like rattles and sluice in the industry for over 20 years. I have approx. 20 years on blue Myra – from the Irish Sea to the Bay of Germany, to the Ekofisk – before I ended up on Heidrun outside the Northland. I understand very well what this industry means for the approx. 300000 workers and employees who are somehow linked to the industry. That's why it's a happy day – that a broad majority on the Stortinget is to build up Johan Sverdrup. I also think that the representative of Terje Aasland could take over and actually could say that it is a happy day, because we should not use every opportunity to talk down one industry after another. Unfortunately, it is also true that the Green Party and the Socialist Left want to lay down large parts of the oil and gas industry. This will mean that large parts of the industry will be closed, with the consequences it will have for the Agderfylken, Oslo, Rogaland, Hordaland, Morene and Romesdal and the whole of North Norway. It's just sad and incomprehensible. It might seem that both parties are very busy talking about community and distribution to the community. The problem is that neither the Left Party nor the Green Party will be involved in creating anything. So there won't be anything to distribute. It's a problem. This has been the case with the relations of the Socialist Left with the oil and gas industry since it came to Norway. They have always accepted all the suggestions for development, but the distribution, they very much want to be involved. In conclusion, I note that the Aasland representative wants to talk about one crisis after another – we can probably call him a crisis maximisation expert soon. But I just want to mention that when we talk about the marine industry, you want to fly back to Norway today, under a blue-blue government – another industry that flagged out of Norway under the red-green and regime of Terje Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e843	What makes me take the floor is the statements made by Mr Tina Bru, in particular, from this interlocutor on the non-will of the Workers' Party to support a stable and predictable policy. It's almost unreal after we've been working on this setting, where we've just established a very clear statement that the policy is stable, we're predictable in oil policy. In the case we're going to discuss after this case, about the edge of the ice, we're clear that the framework of the opening decision for the Barents Sea south-east is firm, and that it also forms the framework for the 23rd concession round, so I just don't understand the intense need of the Right to doubt that there is a broad majority behind the oil policy in this country. It's kind of weird, and I'm going to challenge the representative, Bru, to explain why it's interesting to bring forward a statement, some debates or thoughts that have come from some workers' party politicians a year and a half ago, and a year ago, in the debate that we have now, when we are discussing here, is reasonably clear to everyone who wants to see it – not least to those who have read the position. We have to stand firm on what has been a good policy for Norwegian oil extraction all year round – for 40 years. But that doesn't mean that we stand firm as statues, unaffected by what else had to happen around us. Nor has Norwegian petroleum policy ever been. Norwegian petroleum policy has been to adapt policy and policy tools to the situation that has existed at all times, for our objective has been to maximise the social benefits of economic activity and the income we receive and the industrial activity that this brings. Measures have always been put in place to bring about the desired development. We put the money in the red-green government to look at the cost picture on the rigging side and to look at the capacity side. We set up research centers to look at what the possibilities and constraints are when we're moving far more north than what we've done in the past. We have also granted and initiated research and development programmes to meet industry's needs for knowledge and technology. And we have supported the development of professional lines to secure the necessary skills for industry. That's what's been the policy. The reason for going into these actions on the part of society is precisely that we have a social understanding of this whole industry. This industry is supposed to serve society. When this industry is faced with the problems it is currently facing, it becomes too easy, it becomes cowardly and it becomes directly harmful when the right-hand side says that this is to be dealt with by the industry itself. All problems created for society for the future are put in the hands of the participants in board meetings around oil companies. We can't live with that. We must ensure that there is also political governance and a political hand on the wheel. It's not like we're saying that we're going to decide what to invest where and when etc., but we're going to follow the tradition we've always had as politicians, that it's a political direction of the business of the country's largest industry, which is the second most important source of income for the country, the largest source of employment and a good source of both technological development and social development across the country. That's still the way it has to be. Then I think we have to agree on what we agree on, and then we have to deal with what is a problem, not create problems, as the representative Bru here is trying to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e856	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e859	I would like to make a few comments on minority proposal No. Eight o'clock on the sea wind. The left has a great sense of the proposal. To come close to the emission reductions achieved by the two-degree target in 2050/2060, renewable energy will become a major scarce resource in just a few decades. Only in neighboring countries, and perhaps in Europe, do they consume about one percent today. 21 000-22 000 TWh energy per year. This means that in the neighbourhood there is a need for 70–80 times more renewable energy in a few generations than in this context, of 130–140 TWh, the puzzled production of renewable energy. Marine wind is undoubtedly one of the technologies that will be decisive for the weather to solve the climate problem – and that is what we are about to do. Regardless of whether or not Norway will take out the potential we have as a major producer of renewable energy from sea wind, we know that it will be invested in the billions class worldwide in sea wind over the next few years. Our supplier industry may well be far too far inside this market, but we must politically facilitate that they really get the full effect of the unique offshore competence they have, including within sea winds, there is no doubt that a home market for testing and developing new technologies is needed. A full scale pilot plant associated with the Johan Sverdrup field may respond to such a need. But either a pilot plant should be realized here or somewhere else on the socket, it is likely to be a budgetary question and a question that requires a more extensive arrangement than a committee comment. I enjoy the need to warn that the Left will be working on the realisation of a pilot plant for sea wind in connection with the 2016 budget work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e872	This is the largest industrial project in decades. Together, the Johan Sverdrup field can give a total of 1 300 billion. kr in income. That equals one fifth of the oil fund. Where we have 50 years behind us, the decision about Johan Sverdrup could give us 50 new ones. Oil and gas that have been, and that could also be, an industry with great ringing effects for the whole of Norway, means a lot to many communities. For the region I come from, North Hordland, the local expansion of the oil pipeline to Mongstad will provide 200 years of work over a period of four years. For a region with 45,000 inhabitants, this is described locally as adventurous. It gives you a region that has begun to distinguish between dark clouds on the horizon, new possibilities and new ones. Johan Sverdrup is one of the largest findings on Norwegian football since the mid-1980s and will undoubtedly give a big boost to much of Norwegian business. Of the investments of 12 billion. Kr associated with landing, Statoil expects half to go to Norwegian suppliers. I am proud of the Norwegian supplier industry, which is very competitive on the international market. For Stord, a society entirely dependent on its supplier industry, has one, after losing eight contracts, now finally won the ninth. The decision on the Johan Sverdrup field means that a local one has again been threatened that the Norwegian supplier industry can compete internationally, and that he is still in the world market. The future is perhaps the most important thing we need right now. We know that conversion is waiting, and we have obligations to lay the very best foundation. There will be safe frameworks and forward-looking planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e890	I can assure everyone who is concerned here in the Chamber, and in the public vocabulary, that I have a close and constant dialogue with the operators, industry suppliers and offshore companies about the situation in the industry and listen to the recordings from there. Fortunately, I also have a good dialogue with most of the trade unions that are represented on Norwegian pedestal, which I was very pleased with last year. At one point it did not seem quite as if the Workers' Party were equally concerned with stability and predictability, when a statement was issued on 16 May which, if it had arrived in the Stortingen a few months later, would in reality mean that we could not have the debate we have now. I am pleased that the Right and Advance Party, together with Norwegian trade unions, were able to put in place a compromise in Stortinget which makes it possible today to have this debate, and that we have already been awarded contracts of almost 30 billion. kr to a supplier industry within a demanding period and that it is more in process. I have tried several times today to say that I have no problem recognising that this is a crisis for people who lose their jobs. I have no problem recognising that large parts of the supplier industry stand for a very demanding time to varying degrees. But it is also the case that the cost of producing oil and gas on a Norwegian base has to be reduced. I do not agree with Mr Elvestuen and several others who have said that the oil consumption in the world is falling. That's just not right. Oil consumption in the world is rising, but production is increasing more. That's one of the reasons why costs have to go down, but also the fact that we saw a development where the cost level was very high makes us have to cut costs. One of the most important keys to reducing costs on Norwegian pedestal is new technology. Therefore, I am glad that more money is spent on research and technology development for oil and gas now than it did under the red-green government. My colleague, Councillor Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, has presented a research report that puts great emphasis on real science and technology, of which this and other energy producing industries will benefit. My colleague, the Council of State Monica Meland, has presented a maritime strategy that is a great pleasure for both employment and the industries we are talking about now. So to SV, you don't care that you say no to 200,000 annual works in the deployment and production phase, you get to be, but you also say no to 700 billion. DKK in income, which could finance 14,000 nurseries.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e903	Let me quote from the census last year: ‘The oil activity will no longer be the engine of our economic growth. And we have to adapt to the Earth's carbon emissions." It was the king's word on behalf of the government. There is little evidence that the government is following up its own throne speech. The government parties now say yes to oil extraction and yes to a population of less than 1 per million of the world's population claiming the right to even greater oil extraction, despite the fact that we already have 2 pst. of the world's oil production and 3 pst. of the production of gas in the world. In other words, you say yes to the right to serve us even richer to get the most out of the very limited amount of oil that the environment on the globe tolerates. We are in a situation where people in Norway view the climate challenges as one of the two most important challenges in Norway in the years to come, and then the representative Tina Bru stands from the Right and believes that there is no dilemma whatsoever with oil extraction on the way up, in a world where the extraction of fossil resources has to go down. In addition, she ridicules the leader of the Workers' Party, who admits that there is a dilemma when at least four fifths of the world's fossil resources have to lie down, and who believes that there is something we have to take over and cannot be unaffected by – that Norway should not at all be concerned with leaving fossil resources behind. So it is a majority of the political parties in Norway who believe that it does not concern Norway at all that much of the world’s fossil resources must remain in place and say instead: ‘Drill, baby, drill!’ No one in the government follows up in the oil policy that we have limitations on greenhouse gas emissions. We need to be aware that the Johan Sverdrup development will lead to an increase in CO2 emissions in Norway due to the production heat they need. And we need to be aware that the climate goals that we in Norway have set ourselves – now the Minister for Climate Change is in the Chamber – are becoming more difficult to achieve, among others. because the electrification of the remainder of the Utsira field is postponed until 2022 at the latest. I'm going to end by saying the following to Odd Henriksen: History is not going to judge today's politicians for our ability to maximize the short-term gains that oil means right in front of us, but it's going to judge us for how we deal with the big challenges. And then there is no doubt that dangerous climate change is such a challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e922	Norway should be a driver for reducing greenhouse gas emissions internationally, and we should reduce our own greenhouse gas emissions. There is no doubt that petroleum resources in Norway will also have to remain in the base. Nevertheless, I think we should be happy that Johan Sverdrup is coming right now. Because there is a crisis in the petroleum sector and the supplier industry, and without Johan Sverdrup, that crisis would be much, much bigger. Nevertheless, when I listen to some of the larger parties, I think it's too easy to take IEA's projections as an example and a reason why the good times at higher oil prices are coming back. Oil consumption may not go down right now, but oil consumption is going to have to go down when the world is going to achieve its climate objectives. One thing the IEA does not include is trends, which trends we are in – both with price developments in solar energy and renewable energy, with a trend towards a transport sector that is becoming more and more fossil-free, and not least with the growing and growing political will to actively take action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions internationally. That's the reality we have to prepare for in a world where there's more than enough oil, and where the consumption has to go down. Then, of course, prices will also have to go down over time. And that's where our problem lies. It's not with Johan Sverdrup, on it we're going to make money. But we have to expect that in other areas of Norwegian soil, there will be more and more findings that will be unprofitable, and more and more projects will be marginal compared to one that is profitable. In that situation, the risk in projects will also be greater and greater for the Norwegian State. Now, if we're going to reduce the risk, that's the amount of free money we're going to have to look at. We need to have a review of whether the exploration fusion system is properly set up in a new era, and then we need to use the time we now have, not least with Johan Sverdrup, who creates activity in the supplier industry, to continue to reinforce the green shift that we need. It is now that we need to invest in renewable energy; it is now that we need to invest in new industry, based on renewable energy that we have in Norway; it is now that we need to develop new business to build a Norwegian business that is smaller – and will have to be smaller – depending on the petroleum industry than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e933	The representative Tina Bru has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e936	I need to answer the questions that came from the Workers' Party. I do not have an intense need to criticize the Workers' Party, but I am genuinely concerned. Why is it interesting to draw up this line? Yes, two things in particular. Number 1: It wasn't some workers' party representatives, it was party leader Jonas Gahr Støre and it was fiscal figure Marianne Marthinsen. They are not individual representatives, they are important representatives of the Workers' Party. And Number 2: The Workers' Party has itself been among the architects behind the development of Norwegian oil policy as we know it today. At a time when several parties are calling for a drastic deterioration in the framework conditions of industry – some parties in this Chamber are voting today even against the expansion – I believe it is important that the major parties in Norway, which have always collide with each other in terms of development, stick together and stand up for it in the future. That's interesting, because I think there are several signs and several reasons for concern that show that the Workers' Party is moving away from the line that has grounded before.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e941	I will simply reject the fact that the Workers' Party is moving away from the oil policy tradition in which we have stood. We have always been in a tradition where we want to develop the oil industry to be consistent with the needs of society, thus also providing good and stable framework conditions. It has been a while since these opinions to which the representative, Mr Bru, refers. They have been explained, and they have been the subject of debate both inside and outside this house for a long time. We just have to record that Tina Bru has not followed that debate, nor in the debates we have had here in this Chamber, where this has been rejected over and over again. It should be reasonably clear to everyone that the Workers' Party is in charge of the policy and the broad lines that we have been running all the way. I am also a little surprised when the Council of State refers to an alleged compromise that was made last year when it came to the force-from-country matter. As far as I have registered, it was a unanimous decision on the proposals that came and that were up for discussion in that matter. It was very good that the government parties finally joined the team and we got the decision that enabled us today to discuss the development of Johan Sverdrup – that those issues have already been resolved. It would have been a lot heavier to take such a clarification now. So a few words to the Swedish Environment Party and the Green Party, which have the impression that it is a moral right choice to wind up Norwegian oil production: I believe that this is a wrong starting point, and I mean that because, as the proposition shows, as many reports point out, there will be a great need for oil and gas in the future. We get a falling production in the production field, and there will be a need to put new fields in production. There's been talk about a need of about 57 million barrels of new production in 2035 to keep the level that is. Norwegian oil production is 1.9 million barrels a day. It's clear that if we just unilaterally liquidate this, it'll be taken back elsewhere. We need to put in international policy efforts to achieve good climate action that takes emissions and that causes pollution to pay. That's what has been, and should still be, Norwegian policy, and that's what works on the base. Our task in oil and gas production is to produce with the lowest possible emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e955	Although I look at the list of speakers that I might come up to the pulpit again, I would like to thank you for a good debate. When it comes to the decision that was made last year, I hear what the President-in-Office has to say. I also note that in those days this went on as badly, in May and June last year, parts of the Stortinget appeared as much as a LO Congress as anything else. I think there are at least parts of the trade union movement that, like me, were concerned about whether we could have this debate now. But as I said, I'm glad that we got the decisions we made last year, and also this year, so that we can now expand this fantastic field and get jobs and value creation really created along the entire Norwegian coast. A lot of people have been into the climate. As for the activity on the Norwegian base, I will never stop saying that gas is part of the solution of developing a low-emission society within the framework of the two-degree target. It's not just me who's serious. That is what the United Nations Panel on Climate Change believes, and the EU believes, which among the major economies of the world must be considered a climate policy lighthouse. This also means the IEA – which presented a report in London on Monday, and in Brussels together with me on Tuesday – which clearly states that it is possible to develop energy systems worldwide that both take into account the need for energy for more than today and also take into account the two-degree objective. But then there is a need not to use less gas, but to use more gas than is the case today. The world is also going to need more oil. I want to say that the faster we reach the peak of CO2 emissions, the cheaper it is to reach the two-degree target. But even in a two-degree scenario, the world will need more energy – not more oil, but still considerable volumes of oil. Then there are no countries in the world that have anything in the vicinity of such stringent requirements for climate policy instruments for their energy production as we have on Norwegian soil. Since many have been in both renewable energy in general and sea wind in particular, I would like to remind you that the clear largest individual delivery to sea wind from Norway is still delivered by Aibel’s offshore yard in Haugesund – a contract of 8 billion. kr to German sea wind. It shows that the competence of the oil and gas industry is already used to realise renewable energy resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e971	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e974	Let me correct the selective reading of the Intergovernmental Panel by the Council of States. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change does not say that gas is part of the overall solution. They say that gas is part of the solution if it replaces coal, but it does not do Norwegian gas to a particular extent today. On the day that the Minister of Oil and Energy begins to state as a condition for the Norwegian oil industry that Norwegian gas will replace coal in Europe in order to be produced, we can start talking. The other thing I should say was for Per Rune Henriksen. We are not saying that we want to wind up Norwegian oil production, but we are going against increasing Norwegian oil production today. There are two very different things – when we know how large the Johan Sverdrup field is, and that it is going to increase oil production towards 2024. Then we are in favour of sea wind, but we are going to vote against the proposal of the Greens' Greens' Greens' Party today. We believe that it is better to bet on it elsewhere than on the Johan Sverdrup field.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e983	I have to go one year back in time. The oil and energy minister now stands on this platform and says that the Right Party and the Advance Party joined with the other parties and demanded electrification of the Utsira Height last year was the reason why we are now dealing with the PUD. That's not right. It's totally wrong, and there must be an obvious misunderstanding in the head of the oil and energy minister on that very topic. It was fixed from day one, when all the parties, except the government parties, agreed to require electrification of the Utsira Height, that one should not postpone the start of Johan Sverdrup Phase 1. That is the reality, and if the Minister for Oil and Energy repeats this, I see it as a lie. So to what's in the matter now. I see it as important that we are able to maintain the knowledge of the industry and the business cluster that may provide some of the most important knowledge base we have for the future. It is obvious that the activity associated with Norwegian socket is important, but it is also important that a person is able to properly analyse the picture of what is actually happening now. And it's perfectly obvious, in my view, that our biggest challenge now is that we see a lot of knowledge missing, and that it's missing in a period where we're going down, but where the analyses suggest that we're going up in 2016, 2017 or 2018, in the relatively near future. It is then worrying that the government does not in any way launch any action or is willing to discuss any kind of action that might remedy the situation a little. If there's something the industry experiences, both now and historically, as demanding, then it's that the low economic cycle comes faster than what you're assuming, and the rise is coming faster than what you're assuming. This means that it becomes quite demanding to deal with the competitive situation with Norwegian suppliers’ eyes. We should have tried to stabilize that image. I record that the government and the Council of State are not at all interested in discussing exactly that relationship. So all the way to Tina Bru. I'm going to be careful to comment so much since she doesn't have so much speaking time again, but when she's concerned about what Gahr Støre and Marthinsen have said, two excellent spokespersons for the Workers' Party, I'm more concerned about what the Prime Minister actually said in his New Year's speech, and who created furores and strong negative effects on the oil and gas industry and on the future of petroleum. That should also concern the representative Tina Bru.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e992	It is strange when the representative of Aasland attacks the Prime Minister to say exactly what the representative of Aasland has said throughout this debate, namely that the oil sector will be a smaller part of the growth of the Norwegian economy than it has done in previous years, which is not least because we have now been halving the oil price. Where the representative of Aasland wants this criticism, I do not know. In addition, when he suggests that the Minister of Oil and Energy is lying because the Minister of Oil and Energy suggests that the original compromise on electrification of the Utsira Height could have resulted in a postponement of Johan Sverdrup's development, he suffers at best from a slight failure of short-term memory. There is no doubt that the great concern with the compromise that six parties in this Chamber celebrated with cake together with the environmental movement in the hiking hall was that it could lead to delays in important contracts, up to one year in delays. This was the message we got from the industry itself, from the companies involved in Johan Sverdrup development, and it was the message we also got from important interests in the trade movement. If the representative of Aasland believes that the Minister of Oil and Energy is lying, he must also believe that LO is lying, that Industry Energy is lying, that Statoil is lying, and I suggest that this is perhaps not what Aasland said here, but that it is in itself he should go. The representative of Aasland has also been concerned about asking questions about the effect of reducing taxes and taxes on the level of activity in the business world in Norway. The question should probably also be what effect he thinks it will have on meeting economic downturns with a sharp increase in taxes and taxes, as the Workers' Party suggests. The working party is very concerned about action places, and action places are important, but it is also important to be involved in jobs. Workplaces need to be created and invested in, and someone needs to do that job. Then there's a lot of framework conditions to say. No one should tell me that taxes and taxes are not an important framework in Norway. In fact, some in the Workers' Party have understood this. Trond Giske, when he was Minister of Industry, called for the removal or reduction of property taxes. Lisbeth Berg-Hansen did the same thing. Karita Bekkemmen did the same. LOS Roar Flåthen, when he was the LO leader, spoke for the same thing. What is it that these have not understood as Aasland so well understands, when he believes that taxes and taxes have no bearing on the level of activity in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1005	It was probably Aasland's post that also made me speak. That same afternoon, the evening and the night before 17 May last year, Statoil said in a press release to the NRK that it has not been given in any way that what the Storting has now agreed will not lead to a postponement of the project. During the weekend, it became clear that many were concerned about it: it was the developer, Statoil, and their partners, it was the NHO, and there were significant parts of Norwegian trade movement, with representatives from LO's central management, the Joint Alliance and Industry Energy at the head. So it was probably not only I who realized that what happened – with the Workers' Party at the head – was the celebration out in the hiking hall here, created a considerable uncertainty about what today's debate could take place at the time it is now doing, and about the big contracts that are now going out could actually have come. As soon as I'm here, I want to say I'm a little upset. In other words, international conditions have a significant impact on the oil market. Energy production is also an international industry. There is wide interaction between suppliers and operators that is the basis for our success as well as we do, but it is also such that the interaction between Norwegian suppliers and Norwegian companies means a lot. Therefore, I am pleased that we now see that Norwegian suppliers have again managed to be competitive in this demanding time. But I get a little upset when I hear the representative Rommetvei come here in this room and say that he is concerned that there is a lot of foreign content in the contracts. That's better, I guess. Excuse me, President. – to have Norwegian contracts with international content than was the case with the five contracts concluded at the end of the previous period, which were international contracts but with Norwegian content, correctly. So I note that, like me, the Workers' Party is concerned with the Norwegian supplier industry, but a little bit of cleanliness in the debate, I think you have to expect.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1014	I am a little surprised at the end of the debate. So today we are discussing the expansion of the largest field since we adopted the Trollfield in 1986, we are discussing a major and important industrial development. We are facing an uncertain future in the supply industry and the oil industry, and we could have had an opportunity to discuss what to do in the future. But then the Labour Party and the Right and the Advance Party end up in a dispute about what Gahr Støre said, what Marianne Marthinsen said, what the Prime Minister said, what happened between 16 and 17 May last year – when, after all, it became a unanimous decision and we are today on the extension, as planned. So our opportunity to have a slightly wider discussion about futures for Norwegian oil industry, about what kind of interaction one might have between the different parts of the industry, and about how the authorities can contribute in that context, the possibility of having a review of and a discussion about the uncertainty we are facing, how much the downturn can be, or if there is an upturn, and when it might come – was therefore squandered in a slight quarrel, if I may say so, between the biggest parties in the UK, about who said what of different parties around last year, and what happened between 16 and 17 May. I'm sorry about that. I think, unfortunately, that is a sad end to the debate. I wish I had a debate that might have a little more views and also a little more transparency about what we want with Norwegian oil industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1021	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1024	I can agree with what Marit Arnstad has just said. But it's pretty complicated to get a long-term debate on the future of the petroleum industry based on a government that won't enter into and discuss today's reality and one of the challenges today: that one might build up knowledge and the ratio to capacity so much that one can't master a possible rise that might come in two or three years. This again means that one will have a situation where costs will increase, and the situation will be demanding. All experience suggests at least that this is the situation. So it's clear that we have to point out some things that are actually wrong. The change from 16 May until we discussed the matter last year was that the government parties joined, and that the oil and energy minister went from a non-know-how attitude on electrification to a yes-position. Finally, as Astrup pointed out: I can't see that the government's fiscal policy has resulted in anything positive for the labour market. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1033	There's no time for speech. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1049	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the political groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to give rise to six lines of reply following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1060	Today, all except the Government Parties vote for the following decisions: « Size sends Report. Paragraph 20 shall return to the Government and ask the Government to start work on the regular overall revision of the Barents Sea and the offshore management plan outside the Lofoten and return to the Stortinget. ‘... [[2014-2015]] It is not every day that groceries messages are sent back to the government. This is serious, and I believe that the Minister for Climate and Environment must take over. The Left and Christian People's Party criticise the content of the update, and that's their reason for sending the matter back. The SV and the Greens agree with this criticism, but we also support what is the main criticism of the Greens' report by the Labour Party and the Centre, namely an urgent process of adhoco updating the management plan. The work on management plans has been laboriously structured to provide a framework for the management of our seas. Professional forums, systematic work to cover knowledge gaps and consultation rounds of recordings have been established. This has not been the case with this big message. Through the committee work, we have gained insight into the work on this big message. On 14 January this year, the Ministry of Climate and Environment sends an e-mail to the Norwegian Polar Institute with an urgent order to calculate the ice edge. The bureaucrats of the Minister for Climate and Environment do not ask for technical advice on how to best calculate ice. This is what the Ministry has already decided on. They're just asking the Polar Institute to do the math job. The assignment was sent on 14 January, and the assignment was delivered on 15 January. The map and the 23rd concession round were launched on 20 January. So the ‘professional’ process for this big message took two days, or six days if we're going to be okay. In the opinion of SV, it is not difficult to understand why the government was in a hurry. The government's cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left states that oil operations should not be conducted on the ice. The current 2011 management plan has mapped out where the particularly valuable and vulnerable areas are the ice edge and the polar front, and also mapped out the framework for non-petroleum activities. The maps show that several blocks in the 23rd concession round conflict with the ice edge and the polar front. On 6 May this year, Minister for Climate and Environment Tine Sundtoft was asked in the Questionnaire why she felt it was necessary for the Stortinget to move the charted edge of the ice in the management plan. Then she answered: ‘Since the map shows that the ice edge and the north-east parts of the opening areas overlap, there could be a possible conflict between the size of the ice edge. It is the apparent contradiction that has created a need to take a closer look at the ice edge and that was also updated at the announcement of the northernmost blocks in the 23rd concession round. That's what we've now cleaned up using the latest available data for the iceberg." She also said, ‘What was important to us was to look at the apparent contradiction, which it can be interpreted as, by the Storting that one should not start drilling at the edge of the ice at the same time as one has decided where the Barents Sea should be south-east.’ The environmental authorities have also pointed to the conflict in that the government has chosen to highlight blocks in contravention of the current management plan. On 4 April 2014, the Polar Institute writes: ‘One of the proposed blocks northeast of the Barents Sea south-east is directly overlapping with SVO Variable ice edge and blocks 7335/3, 7435/10-12 and 7436/1,10 are either within or in contact with SVO Polarfront. [[7435/9]] In these areas, petroleum activities shall not be commenced in accordance with the Management Plan.» The Norwegian Polar Institute also advises against the allocation of blocks due to the influence of areas with increased ecological vulnerability in the ice edge zone and the polar front. The Committee asked the Minister for Climate and Environment the following questions about the 23rd round of the Polar Institute's observations that blocks in the 23rd round of the concession were in conflict with the current management plan. Then the Minister for Climate and Environment said that the blocks pointed out by the Norwegian Polar Institute are directly overlapping with SVO Variable ice edge and inside or overlapping with the SVO Polar front, as the mapping of the calculation of SVO Variable ice edge and SVO Polar front is done in the Report. St. 10 for 2010–2011 The update of the management plan for the maritime environment in the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten. The conclusion is, then, that the government itself believes that there is a problem with the announcement of blocks in the 23rd concession round and the current management plan being in conflict. The government has a cooperation agreement in which promises have been made to the Christian People's Party and the Left in this area. The government is therefore trying to move the boundaries by updating the calculations for the ice edge of a process that takes two to six days. The result is that the thorough professional processes the management plans are intended to be undermined. When the opinion of the committee became known, changes were made by the government. I quote from an interview with the Minister for Climate and Environment in NRK on 11 June: ‘Do you now have to go to Minister of Oil and Energy Tord Lien and say that part of the blocks announced in the 23rd concession round cannot be allocated anyway?’ Sundtoft answers: ‘No, I believe that the restrictions attached to the 23rd concession round, what we have in our cooperation agreement and the new calculations of the edge of the management plan indicate that this should not cause problems.’ So this is what a climate and environment minister who has just sent his attempt to recalculate the ice edge in return from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1119	Should the representative make any proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1122	:I refer to the proposals where SV is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1127	Then the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1130	We have management plans for the marine environment for our marine areas. That we should have such plans as tools was presented for the first time in 2002, when the government of Bondevik II presented the big message called ‘Rent and Rich Seas’. Since then, we have had management plans for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside Lofoten, for the Norwegian Sea and for the North Sea and Skagerrak. We simply have a system in which we lay down the framework for the sustainable use of marine resources and where the precautionary principle is applied. The management plans set out detailed environmental requirements and assess the totality of environmental risks. Norway has a long tradition of creating values from our ocean-based resources. The management plans ensure that this is done in an environmentally sound manner. The Labour Party believes that the knowledge-based management plan regime we have today should be continued. There will be a need for both updates and revisions of our management plans. The management plan for the marine environment in the Barents Sea and the areas around Lofoten was reviewed in the spring of 2006, and we received an update in 2011. A solid professional basis was established for the previous update. There were, among other things, on the basis of a report drawn up by 26 Directorates and research institutions divided into three groups, inter alia. Professional forums. The evidence base was also provided for what is commonly called transparency and observation, and good response was obtained. The update that the government has now provided is not close to being based on a professional basis. Knowledge acquisition has not been carried out on a broad professional basis. Here's the main report, pretty solid stuff -- and it's pretty big, so the referee gets it. And here's the list of the knowledge base, where this main report is also mentioned as part of the subject base, which was on the last page of the paper when the management plan was updated, a long list. In the big message that we're now discussing, the last page is blank, it says nothing. In this case, one element, i.e. the edge of the ice, was presented through the ice data made by the Norwegian Polar Institute on a specific order from the Ministry of Climate and Environment, given on 14 January – which was also referred to by the case-rapporteur – where they specify exactly what data they should have, and what assumptions to base, a kind of formula, really, where it is just filling in. It was obviously not a great job, because on 15 January the department got the answer and the map. I noticed that the Council of State in a letter sent on 27 May to the Committee wrote that this was a preliminary answer, and that they were working on it a little later. But that's not the point here. Here things have happened extremely quickly. She also writes in the same letter that they did not need a hearing or other involvement than the order for the Norwegian Polar Institute, and that the Marine Research Institute and the Environment Directorate looked at what they came up with in retrospect. So, here the Stortinget has been presented with a case where we are asked to evaluate a map and a calculation, as I see it. I believe that is an entirely unsustainable way of dealing with the management plan regime. Taking out one element is going away from a comprehensive knowledge-based management. That is also why the Workers' Party believes it is right to send this case back to the government. So we don't go in and evaluate the map or the calculation. We believe that the issue of the ice edge and the polar front belongs to a comprehensive revision of the plan, which has been announced on several occasions in 2020. Revisions in 2020 included: notified in the previous update of the Barents Sea Management Plan and the areas outside the Lofoten, in the North Sea and Skagerrak Plan and repeated also in the message we have on the table today. I record that the Right Party and the Advance Party in the notes are trying to make a point out that there is a difference between update and revision. Then I just want to refer to the previous update, from 2011, and the knowledge that was then taken into account. Then I have also noticed that the climate and environment minister in the meeting of the Committee had on 21 May, claimed that the Stortinget has asked for this update, and in a letter to the Committee on 27 May, reference is made to an indent on page 128 of the Storing Communication on the North Sea and Skagerrak management plan, which states that an update is to be made during this major period. The right hand and the front edge refer to the same in their comments in the setting. To this I have the following to say: Yes, this message was attached to the protocol, but Stortinget does not accept a big message, it is the government's message to Stortinget. If we had then decided to ask specifically what the Council of State said and which is repeated in the vote, the message the Committee has been discussing is not what we can call an update of a management plan. The cancellation message is not what it says it is, exactly. In a press release dated 20 January of this year, the same day as the announcement of the 23rd concession round was submitted, the notification was notified. The press release says: ‘In agreement with the cooperation parties, the Government will present a notice to the Stortinget with an updated calculation of the ice edge during spring 2015.’ It is close to believing — or quite obvious — that this communication was made due to disagreement between the government and the cooperation parties. Then we experience in the Workers' Party that it is implied that we are dealing with some kind of game in this case because we want to send the message back. Then I just have to say, I'm sorry, but we can't provide a majority in a matter we don't think is sufficiently professionally justified – even if I suspect someone to believe that we should provide a majority. I understand that some people get a little upset about it – it’s hard to get things back – but then they should turn their acidity against someone other than the Workers’ Party. We are completely in principle that this matter is not in line with the management plan regime, a regime for which we are very much in favour, and which we believe the government is challenging. This cancellation message will be sent back to the government today. I have noticed that the climate and environment minister in the press release, who was sent out on the same day as the committee, says that it is completely ‘non-problematic’ that this is happening. It's fine for us, and it probably also confirms that this has been about a draw between the government and the cooperation parties. I hope that the Storting in the future will not become an arena to clear up the disagreements between them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1171	The red-green government proposed for Stortinget in Melding. St. 37 for 2012–2013 that the management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten should be updated for the current major period. In the big message the red-greens promoted, it said that the government should: ‘Update the Barents Sea Management Plan — Lofoten during the next major period. Based on an overall need, a process will be initiated in a timely manner with a view to revising that 2020 plan for the period up to 2040.» It is therefore remarkable that the same parties that proposed that the management plan be updated during this enlargement period and that a comprehensive revision should take place only in 2020 criticize the current government for following a recipe they themselves made. There were no lots as during the treatment of Report. St. 37 suggested that this update should not take place. The proposal from the red-green parties was thus fully endorsed by the Stortinget. But it won't stop there. During the treatment of Innst. 502 S for 2012-2013 there was an overall committee which, in the form of a note, supported and the value of the government producing and compiling map-based data for updating and disseminating the management plans, as proposed by the red-green government. In other words, there is no doubt that the Storting has both agreed to the promotion of an update of the management plan and explicitly expressed support for updates to be based on map-based data, including new ice observations. What's changed since then, don't know. Some parties may be suspected of believing that political games are more important than physical realities. In that case, it is alarming and unprofessional. However, what is crystal clear is that a majority in the United Kingdom rejects new knowledge and prefers to rely on out-dated, variable-quality ocean observations from 1967 to 1989 rather than up-to-date, much better-quality ocean observations from 1985 to 2014. The majority may claim that the government has moved the ice-cream. However, that is not correct. It's not the government that has moved the ice. The ice has moved northwards. That is an undeniable fact, as the Polar Institute's observations in the last 30 years have clearly shown. The fact that the majority will not relate to up-to-date ice data does not alter the physical fact that the ice edge has changed. For the last ten years there has been no ice at all in the Barents Sea south-east, neither summer nor winter. The motivation for rejecting new knowledge about the prevalence of the sea appears to be that the majority of the Stortinget feel that there should have been a different professional definition of the so-called ice edge than the definition developed by the Professional Forum and laid the basis for the management plan under the Red-Green Government. It's otherwise exactly the same definition that this government is basing on, and that was intended by the Storting that we should base this update. A new definition needs to be considered in the context of a comprehensive review, which the Stortinget felt would only take place in 2020. This obviously selects the majority to ignore. The Storting gave its support to the Report. St. 37 for 2012–2013, which clearly shows that only an update of the management plan was to be submitted during this major period, not a complete revision which would also contribute to the Professional Forum. The complete revision with a full new process in the Professional Forum would wait until 2020. The fact that the red-green parties, who themselves made this big message, now write in the setting that they ‘reject the proposal for an ad hoc update of parts of the management plan’ means, in effect, that they reject their own proposal. There is no reason why what they thought was right when they put in government is wrong when they come in opposition. Several parties also appear to believe that the update of the management plan should be based on a single consultation opinion from the Polar Institute rather than a complete round of the Professional Forum. This too is contrary to what the Red-Green Government proposed to the Stortinge for the previous period, and also runs counter to established practice for revisions of management plans. There is little confidence in such a trending approach to professional processes. Such an approach will undoubtedly politicise the management plans, thereby weakening the legitimacy and credibility of the plans as a framework for activities in our marine areas. It should be thought-provoking for more than me that so many parties have such a disadvantageous attitude towards the management plans for our marine areas. On our side, we in the government parties are clear that we want to call about the management plan regime. It obviously doesn't want a majority in this hall. Another reason highlighted by several parties in their reasons for sending the updated management plan back to the government – an update they themselves, as I said, have requested in government and joined the Stortinge – is that ‘in line with established administrative principles, the technical basis must be in place before opening up petroleum activities in the disputed areas’. It is worth recalling the majority in the Chamber that during the previous enlargement period, the Storting adopted a management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten, and that the Greatness in its wake decided by a large majority to open the whole of the Barents Sea south-east to petroleum activities. So that comment is already followed up. Also in the discussion of the opening message here in Stortinget was an important topic. I notice that some parties now disagree with the opening message they themselves provided and received the approval of Storting. Havis is also an important theme for government and cooperation parties. No petroleum activity shall be carried out at the edge of the ice during this pouring period. It's solid. Between 15 December and 15 June, the actual observable edge of ice cannot be drilled closer than 50 km. However, few players will consider drilling at all during this period, as the conditions for exploration are better in the summer. In the most recent months — July/August/September — there has been no form of ice in the open area since safe observations started in 1967, even if maximum ice prevalence is taken into account. With the limits to which the Storting has joined for the 23rd concession round, the environmental values at the ice edge are taken into account, and no petroleum activity at the ice edge during this glare period. Those who claim otherwise obviously have an agenda other than to maintain the environmental values at the edge of the ice. It's an honest thing that some parties don't want it to be searched for oil in the Barents Sea. One of the batches in the room even wants to reinforce the decline in activity on Norwegian soil through a managed closure of the petroleum sector as a whole over a 20-year period. The measures proposed by the party will go much faster than this, with the enormous consequences it will have for the Norwegian economy and jobs in Norway. My point, however, is this: there are arguments for not operating petroleum in the Barents Sea, which we have done for 35 years. Most of them are not very good, but the argument about the fear that we are going to do exploration at an ice edge that has drawn north of the area that is open to petroleum activity is among the worst. The position of the working party in this matter is perhaps the most curious. The fact that there are oil opponents in some batches who use any argument to stop exploration in the Barents Sea is a matter of course. But the Workers' Party does not use this argument. They simply have to believe that out-of-date knowledge of the seas is better than up-to-date knowledge of the seas. Alternatively, the Labour Party believes that political games in the opposition give more pleasure than following up a proposal that they themselves have promoted in the position, a proposal that I must add helps to strengthen the legitimacy of the management plan as a framework for activity in this maritime area. In this context, it is emphatically established on the basis of objective observations that the area of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed to open up petroleum activities is not in conflict with the sea. It should be believed that at least the Labour Party should see itself well served by the updating of the management plan in this area. However, this is just one of several issues in which the Workers' Party unfortunately contributes to creating uncertainty about the current petroleum policy, as we were in the previous debate. It does not help either that two out of three of their natural collaboration parties say no to a huge project like Sverdrup. The fact that the Workers' Party in this matter seems to be most concerned with making political games is a pity. There has been broad agreement on the long lines of petroleum policy in Norway. It should also continue, and perhaps not least at a time when Norway is moving from specialty to conversion and where the Norwegian petroleum industry is to be equipped to compete under green conditions. However, I would like to commend the Workers' Party for the party's determination that the 23rd round framework is fixed and that they therefore vote against a proposal from the other parties to remove a number of blocks from a region of the Stortinget that they should be open to petroleum activity. I look forward to the debate. There will be a display in reverse operations and substituting arguments. It is quite incomprehensible to me that a majority of the Storting wants to rely on out-of-date ocean observations, when they have the opportunity to rely on up-to-date knowledge that they themselves have asked for. The opening message for the south-east Barents Sea is in any case adopted and forms the basis for the 23rd concession round. That train has left the station, and we were all on board as it went.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1227	Does the representative of Astrup wish to make suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1230	Yes, I take up the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1235	The representative Nikolai Astrup then addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1239	A joint committee indicates that the oil and gas industry is Norway's largest and most important industry. The industry provides jobs across the country and has since begun contributed to industrial development, technological development and social development that has benefited the whole country. The main objective of the petroleum policy on national governance and control is to create economic development and social development, and to drive the enterprise within a defensive framework of health, environment and safety, as it has been for more than 40 years. But now it has begun to butte, and we see a party that wants to reduce and stop Norwegian oil and gas production. This hold has also begun to infect the larger parts, and we see a trend shift from red-green government time with the presentation of the Storing Message ‘New opportunities for North Norway – opening up the Barents Sea south-east of petroleum activity’, dealt with by the Stortinget in 2013, to the current treatment of Report. St. 20, an updated management plan for the same region. It is very harmful to a petroleum industry that we see wear and tear, and where mass deposits are more used than the shelter. But there is reason to recall who voted to open the Barents Sea south-east of petroleum industry. This government has followed up Report. St. 36 for 2012–2013 by presenting today's Report St. 20. And as we write in our comments, we stress that the Storting wanted an update of the management plan during this majority period, not a holistic revision of the management plan. We also point out that the update of the management plan is based on new ice observations from the Polar Institute from 1985–2014. So it was delivered according to the order from Stortinget. The fact that a multiple of the Workers' Party has now left this clear understanding cannot be interpreted as other than an obstruction, and makes it difficult for a industry to cope with wear and tear. An entire industry notes that a majority in the Stortinget, by returning the updated management plan to the government, prefers to base its policy on out-of-date ice observations from 1967–1985. The excitement we experienced that time because of the opening message from speakers such as the Center Party Irene Lange Nordahl and the Labour Party Per Rune Henriksen, we see little of today in spite of an up-to-date and well-trained report. St. 20. Forgotten is also the red-green state council Ola Borten Moe’s reference to the fact that all-year petroleum industry and production is going on in swept waters in countries such as the United States, Canada and Russia and in the Caspian Sea. In fact, during the Borten Moes line change with the representative Ropstad, it was found that ice was no problem: ‘You can also imagine having underwater installations. If you get the last, as far as I can understand, it can be as much ice as it wants. It does not really matter.’ There's reason to remind all the red-greens that there was this hold a vote for during the processing of the opening of the Barents Sea south-east. Then it is clear that a now prefers political games rather than the desire to be careful for an industry in difficulty. The Ministry also indicates that the new ice data on which the updated ice edge is based are generally of better quality than the old data. A period of time has been set to limit sensitivity when updating ice edges for short-term oscillations between years. Choosing a 30-year time series is also consistent with the length of a standard normal period used in the field of climatology and meteorology. This means that one will not operate petroleum at the ice edge of this glare period based on up-to-date ice observations. The right-hand party management also specifies that no search activity shall be conducted closer to 50 km from the ice edge observed at any time between 15 December and 15 June. This government is also clear that the next update of the ice edge, which is a particularly valuable and vulnerable area, is recommended in the context of the revision of the Barents Sea-Lofoten management plan in 2020, and that the Professional Forum with the support of the professional basis for the revision, as one saw in the opening of the Barents Sea south-east in 2012. Finally, I would like to remind you of the expectations experienced by our northernmost counties with the possibilities of participating in the adventure of petroleum activity on the Norwegian base for more than 40 years. There are great possibilities in the Barents Sea, and my wish is that the creation of value that will take place in the future around finding there will lead to positive effects and economic recovery, as we do, among other things. has been seeing Hammerfest in the last few years. It hastens both the inhabitants and the business community up there. The 23rd round frame is fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1274	Today, we are addressing the issue of one of the world's most important ecosystems in one of the most vulnerable marine areas in the world. If we mean something by the precautionary principle – when else are we going to use it carefully, if not here. This is not an area with which we gamble, although important economic interests in the petroleum sector are not in the second scale. The ice edge zone is threatened by global warming. That's paradoxical enough because it's moved northwards. At the same time, this is a unique area and the engine for all life in these marine areas. I'm going to admit that I didn't really get into the life of the jumper before I started working on this matter. It can actually serve as an illustration that in everyday life we often overlook major consequences for small but important creatures. The animal schematic crayfish is the most important animal in the Arctic, the basis of the food chain and at the same time the most sensitive animal to oil spills. A major spill in the ice zone will not only be a local disaster, but a global disaster. The cleaning technology we know today is not good enough to handle emissions in and near ice. That's why we have to be sure of what we're doing before we do anything in these areas. At the same time, it should be said that this case has not been easy. There was no clarification in the negotiations between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. It was not done in December last year, and it was agreed to get a case to Stortinget. There is a great need to send a big message back, but it was nevertheless necessary because we actually disagree with the content and believe this is a proper treatment of one of our most important and most vulnerable sea areas. The debate on the edge of the ice began when the report was being processed. St. 36 for 2012–2013 on the opening of the Barents Sea south-east for petroleum activities. This area became part of the Norwegian Cap following the agreement with Russia on maritime demarcation and cooperation in the Barents Sea and the Polhave. At that time the area was not covered by the Barents Sea Management Plan, which was adopted before the Border Line Agreement. The management plan therefore covers only the South Barents Sea. The opening message suggested that no petroleum activity should be started at the ice edge and the polar front. The question was to be re-assessed in the context of the next update of the management plan. However, the majority of the population found that there was no obstacle to petroleum activities throughout the Barent Sea in the south-east. The opening message, which was promoted by the Red-Green Government with the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, was unclear as to what definition was used for the ice edge and the polar front. The Committee therefore asked a number of questions to the Ministry to try to clarify this, and a letter from Mr Borten Moe to the Committee on 5 June 2013 defined the ice edge as follows: ‘In the concept of the actual/observed edge of the ice, it is added at all times to the ice edge observed. In the opening process, the ice edge is defined as 40 pst. ice coverage.’» The fact is that there was a need to clean up a part of that mess and the ambiguity that was created by the Borten Moe. The big message we now have on the table updates the management plan and adapts it to the formerly disputed area of the Barents Sea south-east. The updated calculation of the ice edge with new figures for the period 1985–2014 now gives the same definition of the ice edge in the Barents Sea south and the Barents Sea south-east – so father, so good. However, the new definition sets the new ice-cream limit elsewhere than a number of eco-scientific advice. However, when we are part of the majority that sends the message back, it is justified that we believe that the overall management plan is fundamental to the long-term management of our marine areas and ensures that marine-based business and marine environmental protection are seen in the context. In the message, the edge of the ice is now defined so far north that we find reason to doubt whether this is justified. There is a broad consensus in the Storting that in the area at the edge of the ice and the polar front petroleum activities should not be started – then we must be safe, yes more than safe. I recommend the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1296	The practice we have in Norway with management plans for marine areas is a knowledge-based and long-term approach to ensuring that environmental values are respected, while facilitating value creation and economic development. The process is very thorough. It contains wide and is anchored in Stortinget. The updating of the management plans shall also be thorough processes with a sound professional basis. Following the decision to open the Barents Sea south-east, the Red-Green Government issued an opening message in 2013 for the areas west of the divider line. Then, the framework for the petroleum activity in the Barents Sea south-east was concreted and supplemented in the light of knowledge acquired. The centre party is at the mercy of both the management plan in force, the opening message that was addressed, and thus also the framework for the 23rd concession round that has now been established. The fact that the ice edge can partially overlap areas open to petroleum activity does not require the Storting to detail it. This means that the government has a great responsibility to assess in more detail whether these blocks should be assigned or not. Nomination and allocation of blocks on Norwegian socket is not a responsibility for the Stortinget, but a task assigned to the government on the basis of the Stortinget decision in the management plan and the opening notification. An adhoco updating of how, and not least where, the edge of the ice should be defined, violates the administrative regime, in the opinion of the Centre Party. This is also the background to the fact that the Central Party will send the matter back to the Government and ask for an update to be made in connection with a thorough review of the management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten. We believe that the opening message is the basis for the assessments the government has to make, and it is difficult to see why one should come back with individual calculations like one does here. We think it's a little bit remarkable. It is also remarkable if one believes that this was something that was asked of the red-green government and the red-green parties. In the down payment message from the government, Report. St. 20, there is no reference to an order from any majority of the Storting about an update of the ice edge. The updated ice data is based on an update that is not as thorough as previous updates have been. In the 2010 update, as noted by the representative Eva Kristin Hansen, a thorough process related to the reference group and the institutions involved in the preparation of the quite comprehensive joint report was carried out. It was a completely different and broader process than what we are facing today. When I hear the representative Astrup accusing the Workers' Party of political games, I have to say that I am a little wondering about his own way of expressing himself. It seems that the government is simply using different reasons to try to justify what they have now presented around the ice edge. First it was done in agreement with the cooperation parties, and then the cooperation parties wouldn't know about them. So they're starting to talk about a reason that's related to past relationships. The truth is that the disagreement – perhaps within the government for what I know, but at least between the government and the cooperation parties – is that one must gradually begin to find other types of reasons for what is being presented. For the centre party, we relate to the management plan that is in place, the opening message that has been addressed. We assume that the government is dealing with matters relating to the 23rd concession round, in a conscientious way based on that, and this is our starting point on the question of the edge of the ice. We've been involved in opening 23rd concession rounds. That's what we're saying. And we believe it is the government's responsibility to assess whether and which blocks are to be published and allocated. In our opinion, this must be done on the basis of the current management plan until a revision is carried out that is as comprehensive as the management plan actually deserves. Therefore, the Central Party supports the proposal to send the notification back to the Government. We record that the government says it's okay. We also think that is quite right. Then I get a go further with the work on that basis. Because we believe this is the responsibility of the government and not of the Storting, neither can the Centre support the minority proposals put forward in the vote, that the Storting should start assigning concrete blocks, or not open blocks, in the Barents Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1322	When we go into that matter, it's important to start with the fact that the ice edge zone is one of the most important and most vulnerable natural areas we have, with enormous biodiversity. On the left, we have no other intention in this matter than to protect this area of petroleum activity. It is also the background for us in the cooperation agreement between the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party to clarify that there is no petroleum activity in and at the ice edge. Then it is true that the representative of the Christian People's Party was also concerned that this agreement is one of the reasons why this matter has been brought forward. From the left we have not been critical of the matter being brought forward, but we will still go in for it to be sent back, as we disagree with the content of the message. Quite simply, we believe that the notification is not based on what is the latest available knowledge, but only makes a simple projection based on the calculation basis set out in the 2011 management plan. When we go into the last available knowledge, we can't use anything other than what we now have, the consultation opinions of the Polar Institute, towards the 23rd concession round, where they are clear that the basis of calculation that was made in 2011 is no longer the one that most accurately calculates where the ice edge zone is. That is why we have also addressed the minority proposals in this case, because that is what we have as a starting point. When the case is sent back, we are of course concerned that it is the latest available knowledge that needs to be used, also with Professional Forums, to get as accurate an assessment as possible of the ice edge zone and the polar front – which we must not forget in this context when talking about rich and vulnerable areas – how best to calculate by 2020. There's a discussion at the back of the 23rd concession round. We have entered into a cooperation agreement to influence and to ensure that no petroleum activities are initiated within the meaning of defining as the ice edge zone. When this case is now sent back, the further work must be based on the map basis that we now have, the map basis that is in the 2011 management plan. I agree that this is not a discussion to be taken in the Storting, but it is definitely a discussion that must be taken between the four parties. 23rd concession round was given subject to a reservation, and now it is the four lots which have to decide on how to follow up the agreement in the cooperation agreement. Whether it's an assessment of whether this concerns one, three or seven blocks, must be a matter in which the four batches now go into, so that we get a final clarification of the situation also around the 23rd concession round. This is, for those who have joined the debate on the ice, a complicated matter. There are many different processes that have been going on at the same time, but it is important that we do not lose sight of it. This is primarily about how we should ensure that there is no petroleum activity in our most vulnerable and important natural areas. For the left, what we do is what we do as our main concern in this matter. We will now go in so that the matter is sent back. It is important that we have a broad assessment of where we are correctly placed the ice edge and the polar front in the management plan up to 2020. In the meantime, in the four games we have to agree on how to deal with the 23rd concession round, and the left is ready to start that process with the other parties immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1333	So this debate is about two things. One is generally concerned with the management of a management plan to ensure that Norwegian oil activities take place within the limits of ecosystem tolerance, based on an overall assessment. It's funny about that management plan. In particular, we need to have the best professional criteria and definitions on the basis of which to ensure that there is a minimum risk of oil spills in ice-cream areas. This debate has shown more than clearly that both the Labour Party – and the Red-Green – and the current blue government are most willing to follow and pull on different sides of this problem complex to adapt it to the desire to operate as far north as possible. For the Green Party, the starting point is quite clear. We believe that oil should not be operated in these areas because too much oil has already been found here in the world, and we must not use resources to find even more that will create even greater climate change and even greater costs for people who come after us. However, we also believe that if oil activities are to be carried out in these areas, it must be in everyone's interest that it should be done on the basis of respect for the management system we have adopted and on the basis of the best available professional definitions. What has happened now is that the government has managed to make a mess of another world by providing a selective, hare lab-shaped emergency update of the ice-cream definition, in a situation where it was clearly done to adapt the ice-cream definition to an allocation in 23rd concession rounds that had already been made and that challenged an original ice-edge definition. And so the government has been injured to be completely revealed by the fact that there is a more professionally thorough and better ice-cream definition, as proposed by the Norwegian Polar Institute, at the very same time as this hare lab definition was presented. Thus, we now know – no matter what we think about when the management plan should be updated, when it should be completely revised, and how it should be done – that there is an ice-edge definition that is professionally better, after all the sun-marks, and that lays the ice-edge definition so far south that it conflicts with several of the blocks allocated in the 23rd concession round. Both the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Right, the Advance Party and possibly the Christian People's Party have to deal with the problem that we are now in a situation where we are in the process of allocating blocks as probably in a few years' time – when the ice-edge definition is actually to be revised, as part of the revision of the management plan – will prove to be too far north. That's the way it goes when you try to be smart to push the oil business further north. Unfortunately, this merges into a pattern. We have this ridiculous case from Sørdalen nature reserve, where the government later upgrades the management rules so that it can fish trout, pick berries and add 420 kV powerline through the nature reserve – and there are several such examples – that show that the government's willingness to operate nature protection is completely subject to and adapted to the government's will to challenge or damage nature. It's not reliable. On the basis of this, of course, the Green Party supports the Green Party's proposal to send this back to the government, and we also challenge the entire Stortinget to take a position on the blocks most north of the 23rd concession round, which, according to all sun tags, contradicts one or more up-to-date definitions of the ice edge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1348	The aim of the management plans is to facilitate value creation through the sustainable use of resources and ecosystem services in marine areas while maintaining the structure, functioning, productivity and natural diversity of ecosystems. The management plans are thus a tool for promoting both business development and food security within a sustainable framework and ensuring a good environmental status. The management plans contribute to the transparency of the overall framework, coordination and priorities in the management of marine areas. They are a concrete expression of the ability and willingness of Norway as a coastal State to manage our seas in a responsible manner. The size provided for the management plan for the North Sea and Skagerrak in the spring of 2013 that the management plan ‘for the Barents Sea-Lofoten will be updated during the next major period’, i.e. this large-scale period. At the same time, during the treatment of the opening of the Barents Sea south-east of petroleum activities, the Storting assumed that the issue of petroleum activities at the ice edge would be re-examined in the next update of the management plan. Report. Paragraph 20 for 2014-2015 is promoted in accordance with those assumptions; I am pleased to note that in the Committee's position there is broad agreement on the basic steps to be taken with the management plans. They shall continue to be a policy tool based on a sound professional basis. There is broad consensus that the overall management plans are important as a foundation for the long-term management of our marine areas. The management plans ensure that marine-based businesses and the conservation of the marine environment are viewed in a coherent manner. I want to highlight that Report. St. 20 is based on a sound professional basis. New calculations of the ice edge of the management plan and the description of the ice edge zone of the Norwegian Polar Institute have been central. The 2014 report of the Monitoring Group, which describes the state and changes of the Barents-Lofoten ecosystem, has been an important technical basis. In addition, technical reports have been used on, for example: oil protection and ship traffic in the northern regions. Report. St. 20 directs the search light on the northernmost part of the Barents Sea management plan area. Of the Norwegian sea areas, these waters are at least directly affected by human activity. At the same time, climate change is at its earliest. Changes in the prevalence of sea ice open new areas of activity, in particular shipping, fisheries and petroleum activities. This sets new requirements for the administration. The Communication focuses on providing a detailed technical description and an up-to-date calculation of the edge of the management plan. The background for this is the rapid changes taking place at higher sea temperatures and the reduction of the prevalence of sea ice. The edge of the ice is a particularly valuable and vulnerable area of great importance to the ecosystem and biological production in the Barents Sea. New knowledge of the state of the environment and new measures of ice-spreading provide us with a better understanding of where the particularly valuable and vulnerable areas are now. The government has maintained the definition of the ice edge as set out in previous management plans. The announcement of the 23rd concession round has updated the issue of the prevalence of the Sea in the Barents Sea. The Government's intention has been to base as much new knowledge as possible on the management of marine areas. This also applies, of course, in relation to the petroleum activity. The management plans for the marine areas provide the basis for policy decisions based on a broad and comprehensive description of the entire marine area, both of the state and trends of the ecosystem and related industrial activities. It has been suggested that a comprehensive and in-depth revision of the management plan for each sea area should take place every 15 years. In the government’s view, an update of a management plan is more limited than a revision and related to more defined issues, up-to-date knowledge or more demarcated geographical areas. Updates of the plans help to ensure appropriate management frameworks between the overall revisions. Report. Paragraph 20 is such an update. I take note that the majority of the Storting wants a more comprehensive process of updating the management plans and therefore sends Message. St. 20 back to the government. At the same time, I note that the bulk of the population agrees with the government that there should be a thorough process in revising the management plans. The Government will now concentrate, as foreseen, further work on the management plans on the process towards the revision of the Barents Sea-Loft Management Plan in 2020. The professional basis for this revision will be developed through a comprehensive process of broad anchoring in the Professional Forum and the Monitoring Group. Work will start in the current accumulation period. As part of the technical basis, a review of the definition underlying the calculation of the ice edge will also be carried out, as indicated in the notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1384	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1387	In the article a little earlier, I referred to the press release that the Council of State sent out on 20 January, where she wrote: ‘In agreement with the parties involved, the government will provide a message to the Stortinget with an updated calculation of the ice edge’. Some of us have been a little bit curious about both what came from the government, and what has so far been sent back, but I wonder if the Council of State can elaborate a little on what this understanding has been all about? Does the Council of State recognize that she could really foresee the course of events that have taken place in the Committee and in the Storting? Did she really understand what this understanding was all about? I want a deepening of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1394	It is true that our cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left states that there should be no oil activity on the ice. The size has also requested an update of the management plan during this large-scale period, so I believe that what the government has now delivered through Meld. St. 20, is both a clarification of the cooperation agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, and an answer to the order from Stortinget. So we mean we've supplied in line with both of these assumptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1401	Does what the Council of State says, mean that she perhaps understood that this message was to be sent back? Was there no dialogue between the government parties and the cooperation parties at the forefront? The representative, Astrup, mentioned this as extremely problematic in his speech, and he chose to blame the Workers' Party, but there was an understanding between the government and the cooperation parties that this message was to be presented. So I wonder if the council can elaborate this further than what she did in her answer now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1408	I do not fully understand what the representative Hansen is asking for. I believe that we need to clarify where the ice is going, and I think we have clarified that through this big message, where we have used the exact same definition, but used the last available numbers. So we have clarified that, and we also believe that we have responded to what Stortinget has asked for, but I take note that the Stortinget sends an update of the management plan back to the government, and we will continue to work on a revision of the management plan. But if it was possible to assume that it was where the Stortinget would when we put it out, it is not certain.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1414	It was the Bondevik II government that established the system of a comprehensive management plan for marine areas in 2006 – a plan based on long-term management of marine areas, a trust-building knowledge based on a system and a plan for which it was a professional basis. I mean, the state council thinks it's been processed in Meld. St. 20 is reliable and provides good and knowledge-based natural management for the Barents Sea areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1421	As I said in my post, Message is. St. 20 based on professional recordings. The follow-up system under management plans keeps knowledge up to date through the Monitoring Group and the Professional Forum. We have received the 2014 report of the Monitoring Group, which describes the state and changes of the Barents Sea-Lofoten ecosystem. We have received that, and it is included as an important professional basis in the Storing Message. I also referred to the fact that we have used professional reports on oil protection and ship traffic in the northern regions. The type of knowledge that we receive continuously through the follow-up system under management plans has been used as a professional basis in Melding. St. 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1426	Today, the message is sent back to the government, and then responsibility is placed where it is, that is to say with the government, in order to conscientiously assess which blocks can and cannot be assigned, based on the current management plan. Both the Christian People's Party and the Left confirm through the debate today that they felt it was right and necessary to present such a big message, but when the big message is presented to the Storting, they fail the government. So the representative now tells Elvesuen that he hopes there will be new conversations between the four parties about the blocks and the allocation in the 23rd concession round. How do the councils view it? Will it be appropriate to initiate discussions with the Christian People's Party and the Left on the implementation of the 23rd concession round?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1433	As I mentioned earlier, our cooperation agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party states that there should be no oil activity at the edge of the ice. We fully agree with that, and that's why we thought it was important to get up-to-date knowledge about where the ice is. We now believe that the ice edge, with ice data from 1985 to 2014, lies north of the areas open to petroleum activities. It – in combination with the framework set for new extraction permits in the 23rd concession round – contributes to the preservation of the environmental values at the ice edge, and it has now been clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1438	Now we're in a very special situation. I have two questions for the Council of State. One is: Is the Council of State saying that several of the blocks issued in the 23rd concession round overlap SVO Variable ice edge and SVO Polarfront, as mapped in the 2011 management plan? That's the one question. She answered me in writing. I would like her to confirm that. The second question is: The story today chooses to send this shopping message back. We do not attach it to the Minutes. Thus, the size does not recognise the updating of the ice edge on which the Council of State is based – for various reasons, as I explained in my report. Does this mean that the Council of State still chooses to ignore the Storting's return to this matter, and chooses to base its own completely unscrupulous justification?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1445	Governments use the same definition as the Storting twice in the past, but we have through Meld. Paragraph 20 updated the same definition with the last numbers. And in the case of the ice edge, ice data are now available from 1985 to 2014 for the areas open to petroleum activities. So I want to distance myself from the accusation that the Council of State has made its own definition and update on this. We've used the exact same definition as the Storting, but we've updated the Storing Message with the latest available data.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1450	The Council's answer to the representative Eidsvoll Holmås's question was quite ominous. Is it so to understand that when it is now clear that the Great Government is going to decide to send the government's message back to the government with the content of this message, the Government and the Government intend to continue using the icy definition contained in the message sent back by the Stortinge – in other words, completely disregard the fact that the Storting has rejected this definition?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1455	The government uses the same definition as the Storting twice in the past, so when the Storing has now adopted no new definition, that's the definition that's in force. Now we start work on the revision of the management plan. I've said that it's natural to see if you're going to come up with a new definition of the edge of the ice, but before it's done, one has to relate to what's adopted in the Storing before, and that definition is where there's 30 pst. the likelihood of ice being present in April.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1460	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1463	As the first case in a very long time, today a large number of people choose to send a case back to the government. We reject the game the government has started. The night before the large oil conference in Sandefjord, the climate minister sent out a press release saying that the ice edge has moved. ‘The ice has moved itself,’ said the Prime Minister. No, the edge of the ice does not move itself as it pleases, it may have moved after the climate change we humans are behind. Instead of the climate minister almost presenting this as a cause of joy for the oil minister, the climate minister should do his job: drag in the alarm clock and use it as an example of how visible climate change is in our own neighbourhood. At a time when the seas change, where the climate gets warmer and the species change, it becomes even more important to focus on the best facts. We have done so historically in Norway, because we have established a credible system of governance plans. Management plans are our main means of managing our marine areas in a safe and sustainable way. All human activity shall be managed in a wider context. We need to make sure that what we do, does not destroy nature and the unique marine ecosystems. We are proud of this work. We can say that this is one of our most important and foremost export products. That is what our foreign minister, with good reason, boasts of when he meets his foreign colleagues. This means that we have the best available knowledge of the sea and what we humans can do about activity at all times. So this is where you put this regime aside. That's what the Storting today says no. Activities in the marine areas face difficult dilemmas, and that is political choices we have to make. I believe history has shown that we have managed to make relatively good choices, and that we have managed to reconcile important considerations. I think this is a lot because in Norway we have some of the top professionals, who can give us the best basis. I think it's a pity that the government has now set up a race that makes the discussion today and the week that has passed have been a discussion that has to a large extent been about what is really the facts, not what are the political priorities. There are differences in assessments between the different political parties. I also think that internally in most parties are discussions about what assessments we're going to make. Let's have the important debates, but now there's a debate about what's real. In the Red-Green Government and internally in the Workers' Party, there have been discussions about what should be the activity in the sea areas, but there has always been a common, agreed basis of fact – the professional, agreed basis. I don't believe anyone makes any profit from a discussion about what's really the basis of fact to deal with. We must always have the best basis available. It is the prime responsibility of the Minister for Climate and Environment. What she has delivered today is actually a calculation that she asks the Stortinget to take a decision on. Because of the government's cooperation agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, we were given urgent work, which now rejects all parties outside the government parties. She must obviously agree herself that this is a rather weak matter, as she says it is completely unproblematic that the Storting now rejects this. Ola Elvestuen said it quite correctly in his article. He said that this case does not really have anything to do in Stortingen, this is up to the four parties to negotiate. So now we are told that there must be new negotiations. I think it must be clear from the Minister that she confirms, if necessary, that there should now be new negotiations on the areas. Management plans have not been created to increase activity. They are created to ensure that we take into account nature and sustainability and lay the lead at the root. Because of climate change, areas are changing. Ice melts, species die out, and areas change. It makes us constantly need to improve our knowledge, put knowledge into a larger context. There are strong interests for major activities of different kinds in the sea. Unfortunately, there are not so many powerful forces that are moving towards the precautionary principle, on which all parties initially say should be taken into account. The work on management plans shall be precisely this important tool, which should be used as a basis. It's the Minister of Climate Change's tool. In this case, she has not used that tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1486	The framework for the call for 23rd concession round was laid by the Stortinget in June 2013 through the opening of the Barents Sea south-east. In relation to that opening, or in relation to the management plans, there is nothing to suggest that the 23rd concession round should be presented to the Size for consultation. That's what an actually is doing now. Then a read previous comments and previous references in messages, but it must be done to draw the references and the previous comments as far as the representative Nikolai Astrup does in this matter. There's something about land tools, etc., but it's in a much larger context. No one has indicated in the past that a person wants to leave a trail of thorough, professional, complete updates to the management plan. But then we get into the debate now – and that's what makes this case exciting – and hear the fact that this is a consultation, a review of the 23rd concession round. We hear about the negotiations in December, and we hear about the expectations of the support parties in relation to what will happen after the Stortinget possibly sends the matter back to the government. That's unknown to us, and that's what's important perhaps to clarify. We have said very clearly that what we adopted in June 2013 about the opening message for the Barents Sea south-east and the framework for the announcement of the 23rd concession round is firm. We have never doubted that we have done so, and we clearly believe that it is the government that is responsible for managing the authority they have received from Stortinget. We also did not believe that it was the basis of this case to take a renegotiation on the very decision that took place in the Stortinget in June 2013. Then we are concerned that, through different political approaches, we do not crack into what we perceive and emphasise as good management of our marine areas, precisely that both updates and overall revisions take place on a very broad professional basis, where it is connected to the Professional Forum and the entire arrangement is sent out to the hearing, so that you get the different impulses. All of this is breaking now. That is why there is a great reason to say through this case and through what is also in the big news, namely that the government intends to do this regularly, that no, we will not be involved, we will continue to implement the management of our marine areas in a similar way as we have done before, and that it is a good framework to call on the management of the marine areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1496	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1499	I started the previous article by stressing the precautionary principle. With this as a guide star, it shall also be pointed out that, despite global warming, under given weather conditions, the edge of the ice, regardless of its definition, may be situated further south than expected for a shorter or longer period of time. It is referred to in a note that the Christian People's Party shares with the Greens. This must therefore be taken into account in the award of concessions and there must be a clause in all concessions in the Barents Sea that if the ice edge is at any time closer to installations for petroleum extraction or exploration than 50 km, production and exploration must be immediately stopped and not restarted until the ice edge is further away from that safety zone. This may not happen, but it can happen, and then you have to think in advance what the consequences are. Finally, we are pleased that a majority believe that oil conservation in the north needs to be strengthened, and developments in oil protection technology need to be intensified in parallel with the rolling of the management plan. It is also significant in view of the expected increase in petroleum activities in the Russian sea areas and the resulting shipping activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1508	Three things: firstly, it is good that we now have an overall review of where the ice edge, the ice edge zone, lies, a professional review towards 2020, with the technical advice, from among others. The Polar Institute, which is being founded. Then I have to say that when the case is now sent back, we assume that the government will not receive support for the update of the ice-cream that you add to the message. Then we can only conclude that the current situation is the 2011 map base and the 2011 management plan. Since there is a cooperation agreement, the four parties need to find out how to follow up that cooperation agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1517	I took the floor after listening to some of the representatives of the Workers' Party. For some of us, we agreed to deal with the matter of the Barents Sea south-east and the opening message in the previous big-scale period, and in that message it was said that it should be the same definition for the Barents Sea south and the Barents Sea south-east, and that this should be treated as one area in the next update of the management plan. Nevertheless, this should not prevent petroleum activities in the area from being carried out. When we reacted and began to ask questions, and during the committee work in the previous period, when the opening message was examined, it was found that the definition of the red-green government of where the ice edge was located had changed, it was suddenly ‘the ice edge observed at all times’. There began the conflict, there began the engagement and this discussion, which so far ends in this message. For the Christian People's Party it was not relevant that there should be petroleum activity at the ice edge. But it said a total big thing, everyone agreed on it, and then the question was where the ice edge was. When the majority in Stortinget chose to open the whole of the Barents Sea south-east and say that there was no obstacle to petroleum activity, the Christian People's Party considered it far on the way so that unfortunately we lost the fight there and then. In the negotiations with the blue-blue government, we found that there should be no petroleum activity at the ice edge. We took that as a victory. But we didn't succeed in finding a definition together. The government continues to base what was added to the opening message, namely ‘the ice edge observed at all times’. Therefore, I also think it is fair for the government to update from the previous management plan, but the reason why the Christian People's Party rejects is, as our spokeswoman Rigmor Andersen Eide said, that we would rather have a complete update in the next management plan. But then really the question and my point is, when the Workers' Party says what they're doing, what are they really talking about? For either you do not support the definition used by the red-green government, namely, ‘the ice edge observed at any time’, which I understand means that you can continue the 23rd concession round as planned, or you support the proposal as well. The Christian People's Party is promoting in the hall today. And we don't want to open large sections of the Barents Sea south-east, so we couldn't open all the blocks. I believe that the Labour Party must respond to this, because we need to know what kind of majority is in this matter. The government has something else to deal with if the Workers' Party really believes that those blocks should not be opened.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1524	Let me start by saying that this is a very special situation. I hear what the Council of State says, and I hear that she's basing on the way to define the edge of ice that appears in the 2011 management plan – the definition used there. It's a useful explanation of where the government stands, and then I just want to show the map from that time, which, after all, is what we started from. This is the map on which the management plan is based. [[shows document]] I would like to stress that at the time we never went into what kind of calculation basis we had to plot this map from Stortinget's side, but that's what was there when we adopted the management plan. So the council says she uses that definition, that's what she and the government use when they talk about the edge of the ice. So the council believes that once she has asked the Polar Institute in two days, she calculates how to put updated information into an out-of-date model, would like to use this answer. It rejects the Storting. Right-wing representatives, inter alia: Nikolai Astrup, and the other representatives of the government parties, propose that this be annexed to the Minutes. It's being rejected here today. If this had been attached to the protocol, she would have been able to use the update that happened here. But Stortinget says that this big message is sent back to the Council of State. We do not attach it to the Minutes. Then the council can't say: well, I give the bluff in Stortinget, I give the bluff that Storting does not attach this matter to the protocol. The majority rejects for various reasons – as I presented it in my opening post – some reject it because they believe the process is too bad, some reject it both because the process is too bad and because the result is not the most professionally available, and some reject it because they believe that the conclusion of this update is incorrect. So the Council of State uses the ice-cream definition on which this map was based, and when the Storting chooses to send this message back, this is the one that applies. [[shows document]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1535	The debate is going in a strange direction when it concerns the history of the opening of the Barents Sea south-east. I would like to remind you that former environmental protection minister Erik Solheim opened the Barents Sea south-east, during the update of the management plan on 15 July 2011. Representatives from, for example: SV said at the time that it was a happy day, and that one had been doing environmental monitoring with great precision. In that plan, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV actually entered to remove the sharp emission requirements in the Barent Sea oil industry introduced by the Bondevik II administration. So one wasn't busy raising the level. One actually lowered it that time, and it stands in many ways in stark contrast to the debate and the posts we hear today. At that time, several speakers said they were satisfied with the limitations of the message, even SV's Lars Aegean. The fact is that the government opened Stoltenberg for activity in connection with the polar front and the ice edge, with the premises that led at that time. And the political game we're seeing today is quite strange, especially at a time when this industry is struggling with challenges, struggling with dismissals and struggling to employ the people they've had for a long time. In addition, one sees that a moral is created here that makes one wonder if one might operate after the motto 'It's better with double morals than no morals'.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1544	I just want to calm down the government's spokesmen and others who are concerned about what the red-greens thought, that the Senterparteen is on the side of what we were doing and adopted in the red-green government. We are told that we were in and we opened the Barents Sea south-east. Our concern is that it is not the Stortinget who is going to sit and discuss individual allocations of blocks in the Barents Sea. The Stortinget will not sit and discuss ice edges other than the revisions of the management plans either. It is the responsibility of the government to conscientiously assess. That's why I'm a little surprised that the Christian People's Party also comes in here and goes into such a violent attack on the red-greens. If the Christian People's Party believes that there was uncertainty about the opening of the Barents Sea south-east, they must clarify the question with the parties they have put into government. We are based on today's management plan and 23rd concession round, and if the Christian People's Party wants a clarification, I think it would have been more honest about the Christian People's Party then said as the representative Elvesuen says, that this is a question that one has to raise with our partners in government, and concentrate on it, instead of shooting at the red-green parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1549	I notice that I have not received an answer to the questions I raised in my post about what has changed since the red-green parties suggested that an updated management plan should be promoted during this ageing period, and until they now choose to send it back. It reinforces the point I had in my post, that this is probably more about political games and less about professional updates than they claim. Otherwise, a number of claims have been made during the debate that cannot be contradicted. The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås says that this up-to-date management plan is completely unprofessional. Does he dispute the physical fact that the up-to-date observations from the Polar Institute show that the ice has drawn north? In what way is it completely unprofessional that we put the Polar Institute, which I believe he is concerned about, to the foundation of its up-to-date observations of the sea ice over the last 30 years rather than the out-date observations of the sea ice from the period 1967-1989? There's a lot of talk about not discussing blocks. I fully agree with the Senterpartiet – that is not what we are doing either. We're discussing whether the ice has drawn northwards or not. The management plan shows that it has moved northwards, and that is what we are discussing. Now there are other parties that have brought the blocks into this room by making a proposal, and that's not the government parties. A proposal has been made to extract blocks of 23rd concession round. That proposal will be defeated. I find it hard to imagine, regardless of what the government is going to do, as Arnstad says, that the government is going to take out blocks that the Storting has explicitly voted against to be taken out of the 23rd concession round, as we will do later here today. It will be strange to go across the will of the Storting. So it's like, as I also said in my post, that the framework for the 23rd concession round is set out in the opening message based on the management plan adopted by the Stortinget in 2011. That train has passed – we were all on board. And when this update is rejected by sending it back, it is the previous management plan that applies – and the opening message was based on that management plan. Ergo is so that the framework for the 23rd concession round is firmly based on the proposal that the red-green government promoted, and which I perceive several representatives here, not least the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, now disagree with, although he himself stood behind it when it was promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1567	I need to clarify a little bit in the light of this debate we have had. We have presented a big message with a good professional foundation. The government has proposed no new definition of the ice edge. We're based on the exact same calculation method as before. But what we've done is we put the latest available data into the same formula. That update has been made by the Norwegian Polar Institute on the basis of the latest available and quality assurance data. It's a task it's natural to ask the Polar Institute to implement. So one has said that an assessment of the method of calculation will be a topical topic for the technical work towards the revision of the management plan in 2020. Maybe it's more natural for a person to go in and look at the calculation method of a revision than in an update. I understand, of course, what the Storting now does when they send Meld. Paragraph 20 for 2014-2015 returns to the Government. Then it is the previous management plan that is in force. It has the same definition – we did not change the definition of the management plan in the update we now provided to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1578	The debate we have had here today has proved that this matter is about disagreement between the government parties and the cooperation parties on the 23rd concession round. It's that simple. I notice that the Christian People's Party accuses the Workers' Party of being unclear in this matter. Then I just want to give an explanation: the Labour Party has not inserted this government. It is the Christian People's Party and the Left that have done, so if they have problems with what Tord Lien is doing, they get it with Tord Lien and not with the Workers' Party. That's what they say, among other things. Representative Astrup, who is touchingly indignant about the Workers' Party, said that we are not concerned with up-to-date information. That's wrong. I know many people in the Workers' Party who look and often visit the Polar Institute's websites, npolar.no, and print "map", click on "edge" – a lot of interesting information. So it's not like we in the Workers' Party are not concerned about it. When we talk about the edge of the ice, I would say that the council has said very interesting things about the definition and which one should use after we have sent the message back. I got a little worried about what she really meant. The working party is very clearly accused by the representative Astrup of playing games. I must say, I think I'm out of the question. The national meeting of the Workers' Party was clear on what was our view when it came to issues around the ice edge. We said three things: we said that petroleum activities in and at the ice edge are incompatible with the proper management of our sea areas; we said that once the ice edge is redefined, it should be done by a comprehensive revision of the management plan, and we said that the framework for the 23rd concession round is fixed. This was a national meeting decision that we took before the big shot message came, so saying that we are playing games, is wrong. We follow up our own party organization and the decisions we have taken. I think the representative of Elvesuen has been the most honest man in this room today, because he says that it is the four parties – the government parties and the two cooperation parties – that have a challenge because they disagree, and that it is they who have to deal with that matter. I fully agree with that. They get to sit down and talk about how they're going to deal with the questions they disagree on. This way they can save the Storting for many hours of work on a matter that we have to send back, among other things. because the government does not talk to its cooperation parties. At the end of the day, the Workers' Party was accused by Tina Bru of being in a spat. Then I would recommend taking a little look in the mirror myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1596	I tried in my post to tell my version of the story and remind some of the representatives about what was actually done in the previous period. For the double line that was in the previous period, the same thing is visible now because, as I said instead, when the government in the opening message came up with the criteria that were also the basis for the 23rd concession round, they came up with a new definition of the ice edge. On the other hand, they said that the management plan stood firm – that is, the two quite contradictory things said. Then we started asking the questions. When we asked if it was the management plan or the new definition that was to be used, the Ministry of Oil and Energy replied that the definition of the ice edge is ‘the ice edge observed at all times’. That's why I challenge the Workers' Party. Because when this message is sent back and you want to have the old definition, what is the current definition? Yes, the Great One has decided. The representative Marit Arnstad of the Central Party and the representative Eva Kristin Hansen of the Workers' Party confirm that the criteria, or frameworks, for the 23rd concession round are established. And what's that saying? One criterion is: ‘In areas close to 50 km from the actual/observed edge of the ice, exploration drilling will not be permitted [[...]] I understand that when the Right Party and the Advance Party say they have a majority in the Storting and are not afraid that the message will be sent back, etc., because the frames are fixed, it is the actual ice edge that applies. It is actually a more radical definition than the one contained in the message, and as the Council of State also specifies, up-to-date figures for the same definition are contained in the current management plan. The Christian People's Party sends the message back because we believe that the old management plan should apply when the opening message came. We went against the new definition then, and we now go against the new definition, because we believe that the definition in the overall management plan should apply. Then there are good reasons to think about whether to define it in a more responsible way than what is now. But my challenge to the Center Party and the Workers' Party is not about powerlessness towards the government. It goes on a real political disagreement, which I was aware of before the Right Party and the Advance Party went to government, and which I am aware of now. That is why I believe that the Workers' Party cannot just say that they want to send the message back, and that we need to solve the problem. After all, they themselves have adopted the definition and say that the framework should be established, and that is what is the main problem. Had the Workers' Party and the Center Party wanted to define the ice edge in a different way or at least said that the definition is in the way of the blocks in the 23rd concession round, I think they should say so now and thus possibly give the Christian People's Party and the Left a negotiating card, if that's what's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1607	This debate has become just as strange as I thought it was going to be. There's a lot of disagreement going on a lot of different things here, and it might be a little bit hard really to figure out what the different differences are about. The representative, Hansen, reacts to me saying in today's business today that the Workers' Party is in a spat. I just think that the debate we have here today, between the various representatives of the Labour Party, is in line with exactly my criticism. I sat and listened to Aukrust's representative here. His contributions were almost a statement that all activity in the Barents Sea south-east is irresponsible and in direct conflict with environmental and climate considerations. That's how I interpreted him. At the same time, other representatives from his party have been concerned about criticising the process of the management plan and the big business message that came from the government. At the same time, they say that they are on the 23rd round frames, they do not support proposals to remove blocks that are in this setting. But when you listen to Aukrust's posts, it sounds like it should have been completely impossible for the Workers' Party. So what's really the motivation behind what the Workers' Party is doing today is hard to understand. As an explanation of what happened in the previous period, when the Workers' Party's own government struck St.meld. No 37 for 2008-2009 that an update of the management plan was requested during this large-scale period, says the representative of Hansen that the Stortinget does not accept large-scale communications, that it is the government’s communication to the Stortinget. It's hard to understand what that explanation really means. The only thing that's clear to me in this case is that the Workers' Party, if it's not just for making political games, seems to be better off dealing with a poorer basis for scientific observations of the sea than the government offers with this big shot. In that case, it puts Aukrust's posts in a very strange light. I wonder that the representative here is actually more in line with SV and MDG, who after all have a much more understandable resistance to this than his own party traps. I therefore believe that what I say in DN today has been proved by this debate, where there is more disagreement between the representatives of the Workers' Party than it seems to be elsewhere. So it's not so surprising that there's disagreement between different parties, and that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in some things will disagree. It's natural. But it's a little strange to sit and listen to a debate in Stortinget where the Workers' Party disagrees with itself, disagreeing on what is the basis for why they say no to the big message that comes from Tine Sundtoft.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1618	The representative, Marit Arnstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1621	If there's anything this debate shows, then it's that the government parties and their cooperation parties are completely in the mess on this issue. If the Christian People's Party believes there is a double in the documents adopted by the Stortinget, I suggest that the Christian People's Party sort it out with its partners. The central party believes that it is up to the government to assess the concrete implementation of the 23rd concession round. It's not up to the Storting. The answer to Astrup’s question is that this is not an update of the management plan; this is an ad hoc calculation that is not subject to any of the thorough review to which the previous update of the management plan was subject. Then I must be allowed to give an explanation of vote. When Astrup in a way adds opinions to the Workers' Party and the Centre's party and has some sort of antithetic interpretation of our voting, I have to be allowed to say that the central party is voting against the minority proposals, does not mean that we have taken a decision on the allocation of those blocks. It's the government alone that does.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1630	I end up a hundred percent up on the explanation of vote that Marit Arnstad expressed. That's how I've understood this whole process as well. It's a principle attitude of the Workers' Party and the Center's, which is that assigning blocks in concession rounds is the government's task. We have chosen to step in and say that these areas are in conflict with the best available knowledge, which is the input from the Polar Institute and the Environment Directorate, which are, in other words, the subjects of the Council of State – and which the Council of State, through its functioning in the government, must deal with and take a position on and ‘carry in’ to the government’s work on 23rd round of concessions to the extent she wants. We therefore propose that it be addressed here, because otherwise we cannot intervene with these processes at all, and because it is actually the case that these areas are those that are vulnerable and that the Polar Institute and the Environment Directorate believe are particularly valuable areas. What has become clear in dealing with this matter, and as no one has said against it from the government parties, is that what is actually done is to move the edge of the ice in two days to solve the problem to the Christian People's Party and the Left. In order to move the ice edge further north on a map – as shown in the Storing Message map, where the ice edge has been drawn – the problem of some blocks in the 23rd concession round was in conflict with the management plan’s description of the ice edge and polar front. And then it is simply so simple that I have to ask the Council of State to clarify one thing: She says that the Storting has adopted the definition of the ice edge, and that she has used the definition of the update, and she intends to continue using it, but I would like to stress the following: The Storting has been presented to this map when we deal with the management plan. That's it! This big message is attached to the Minutes. It is valid, with the comments and proposals discussed with the management plan. Here lies the edge of the ice, as Stortinget sees it, according to the management plan. This map tells the Council of State that she intends to deal with it. The Council of States cannot do that. State councils have made an update, she has submitted it to the Stortinget to get it sanctioned – ‘sandy-bred’, that is to say. She doesn't get that, and then the Council of State can't use this map.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1641	So the government has provided the Stortinget with a proposal for an update of the ice edge, which the Stortinget sends back, and then it is absolutely right that that update of the ice edge definition cannot be used. But then the government in this process has come into a situation where we know that there is a new proposal from the Norwegian Polar Institute for an edge definition that they recommend as scientifically better. It has not been dealt with in any process, it may be that it needs further scientific update, and it is not a valid process, but it leaves us and it leaves above all a state council — responsible for taking care of the environment, and being the environmental defender of the government — in a situation where she knows that there is a recommended definition that puts the ice edge further south, from a new way of thinking about safety in the north, which will lead to the actual opening of several of the northernmost blocks announced in the 23rd concession round, then one will quickly risk getting into a situation where new recommendations will show that they are too far north and too far into the ice edge. So the question is, what does a Minister for the Environment do? What does a Council of State, which is primarily responsible for working under the precautionary principle, do when she sits on that kind of information? I would very much like to know from this Council of States. What does the Council of State intend to do when she knows that it is highly likely that she will gradually be given a recommendation on the table about an ice-cream definition that is further south than what we are doing now, whether we are using the one that was adopted in 2011, or the one that the government has now been sent back to?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1650	The representative Nikolai Astrup has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1653	We are all concerned with maintaining the environmental values at the edge of the ice – that's what this is all about. There can be no doubt that there will be no petroleum activity at the edge of the ice during this pouring period. It is only topical to drill in the summer months – there has not been ice in the Barents Sea south-east in the summer months, at least not since 1967. How it was before that, we don't know, but probably we have to very far back to find ice there at the time, where it's time to do exploration now. Then the representative Hansen is upset that I am accusing the Workers' Party of playing political games. Well, this is really about the Workers' Party saying no to an update of the management plan, which they themselves have asked for. They also say no to something that should be completely uncontroversial, and that everyone agrees, namely that the ice has drawn northwards, and chooses to rely on the best available out-of-date knowledge, to use the jargon used by Eidsvoll Holmås. I believe that this is nothing more than a political game on the part of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1660	:I understand that there are many outside this room who are quite confused about the debate that has been going on for a long time with accusations of change in definition and other things. The government has not changed the definition. We have used the same definition as the Stortinget used when they dealt with the 2011 management plan. What we've done, on the other hand, is add new data to that definition. So the representative Hansson claims that the Polar Institute has come up with a new definition. That's not right either. What's right is that the Polar Institute delivered a hearing opinion to the 23rd concession round, where they recommended that one leave a maximum limit where there was 1 pst. the likelihood of ice spreading. There was no new definition from the Polar Institute. So the government has said in the big message that Stortinget now chooses to send back, that it is natural that we come back to the revision of the management plan and look at a new way of calculating the ice edge. Now we continue this work and start revising the management plan, where it is natural to look at any new way of calculating it. Then it's important, as usual, that we use the Professional Forum for it and not now say that the Polar Institute has come up with a new definition. They delivered a hearing opinion to the 23rd concession round. Now we use the Professional Forum and through the work on the revision of the management plan, we arrive at a possible new method of calculation. Before it comes into place, one must relate to what the Storting itself has adopted through the 2011 management plan. That's what the government has done. We haven't made a new definition, but we thought it was of interest to the Storing and others to get the latest available knowledge about where the ice-cream is now intended to be. That is why we updated the definition with the figures from 1985 to 2014. That's what the government has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1671	The Council of State's misrepresentation of history is not more correct because she repeats it for the third time. It's not like the Storting has adopted a definition, unless the Council of State knows something that I or any of us sitting here don't know. The size has never adopted a definition of the ice edge in the context of the management plan dealt with by the Stortinget. What we have, on the other hand, is that we have taken this map – which has been presented – and attached it to it, along with the comments and proposals that lie there. That the Council of State insists that the Storting adopted this definition and that she has updated it will be on her own account, but that is not true. It is an incorrect presentation of the facts of the case. What is the truth in this case is that the Council of State has chosen to ignore what is recommended by the Polar Institute on the ice edge, which even has a small description of how the iceline description can be used as a policy guide to make use of it. That's what the Council of State has chosen to ignore. She and the government have deliberately chosen to ignore up-to-date models of how to assess the ice edge and how to use the ice-canton updates from the Polar Institute, and have instead chosen to put updated data into an out-of-date model. Putting up-to-date data into an out-of-date model will produce equally up-to-date results. That's what the State Council presents to the Stortinget. That is why we refuse to attach this matter to the protocol, but instead it sends back – some, as I said, because they disagree with the conclusion and use of professional knowledge, others because they believe this is not a comprehensive treatment. I mean the following: the Council of State must respect the fact that the Storting will not attach this map – this update of the management plan – to the protocol. If it is not respected by the Council of State in the final review of the 23rd concession round, where the parties are related to their partners, and where there may well be disagreements about the different blocks to be allocated, but where the facts on which the Storting is based must be taken into account, the Storting cannot respect the Council of State either.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1680	The representative Eva Kristin Hansen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1684	There have been some hard results in this debate, and both the Council of State, Tina Bru and the representative Nikolai Astrup have all said that the Stortinget itself has asked for the big message we have received on the table in Stortinget. That's not right. The grandma didn't ask for it. In this way, a proposal is proposed: 'The budget asks the government for...'. Then you're asking for a down-to-earth message. We haven't. On page 129 of the North Sea and Skagerrak message, it is true that we should bring an update, but we in the Workers' Party have never asked for a poorly professionally justified update, as we have here on the table today. We've never asked for it. And when the representative Roppstad is very keen on the Workers' Party because he is struggling with a few blocks in the 23rd concession round, I have to remind you once again that then he gets to talk to Tord Lien. He's the one with that responsibility. If we still had a red-green government, it's not sure that the concession round would have looked the same, we're at the opening message. But it's not good to say, because we're not in government. So Ropstad has to talk to Tord Lien, not Eva Kristin Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1693	It is true, as the Council of State said in a previous article here, that following the debate on the edge of the ice may be extremely difficult — it is my experience too — and even fully understand it. What is the edge of the ice? It's hard to explain and it's hard to understand too many people. Why is he so incredibly important, the explosion of biological life and everything he means to life in the Arctic – but also, of course, the question of how we have defined it, how we have dealt with it in politics? When it comes to something of the core problem there, in my opinion, the representative Eidsvoll Holmås has the right: in the two management plans that we have adopted in the past – the last in 2011 – there has not been an explicit definition in the text: that is how we understand the edge of the ice. It was a map that could be interpreted as a definition or as an illustration, but it has not been an expressed definition. It is therefore also true that in the course of the 23rd round the text came from different places that one could understand differently – to put it that way – that the representative Ropstad was in. But that is precisely why it is so unlikely that a holistic work will be done on a management plan that makes it clear, and that does so within the framework of the management plan, the idea behind the management plan. That was actually the reason why I took the floor; one of the most important things in the administration of Norwegian seas over the last ten to twenty years has been that a developer concept of management plans. It has allowed us to manage those resources with an ecological, environmental, starting point, as a framework for other activities. Since I know that an environmental protection minister in his job in a government is often a bit alone in taking care of it, against a number of other individual interests, fighting for other things, it is, after all, a strength that a majority in the Storting says: Come back with a holistic management plan. It's a strength to say that now we have to do the work within the framework to manage our marine resources in an ecological and sustainable way. So the best thing that can come out of this is that the institute is strengthened. I myself have experienced how it has been noticed in other countries, countries that have made contact with us to cooperate on it, learn from that way of managing sea areas. What I hope to get out of this, at least, is that the Council of State is moving a little out of its defence position and into a position of how, in a moment, we're going to get a holistic management plan for the Storting, which is based on managing our resources in an environmentally defenceable way – including a definition of the ice edge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1704	That's exactly what the representative Solhjell now took up, I said in my very first post. I am pleased that a unanimous committee says that the management plan is an important tool. I fully agree with Mr Solhjell that this is something we get international recognition for – because the management plans are a good tool. That is why we are now going to start work on the revision of the management plan. Then I need to clarify to the representative Eidsvoll Holmås: the map he has shown a few times now, is based on the definition that comes from the Professional Forum, where they defined where there were 30 pst. likelihood of ice in April. Then I believe that when that map is based on that definition from the Professional Forum, that is now what Stortinget has said is valid. Now, when the Storting has not said anything else in this case, it's a relationship, and it's in the model we're putting in the last available data – nothing else; it's not made a new definition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1711	This is where I say that the Council of State has a selective interpretation of what the Storting is doing today. We've never dealt with either definition or anything else before, we've dealt with this map, and that's what we've inputted. What the Council of State will think about it, gets to be the problem of the Council of State. But what the Council of State has done is to present this big message with this map for the Storting and to base a definition and lift it up to the Storting. The size doesn't refuse to deal with it, we refuse to attach that protocol. This means that the Council of State must deal with the things the Storting has decided up to now, in its further work. Something else will not be showing respect for the work of the Storing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1718	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1732	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply be given by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1741	This matter lies in the border country between the responsibilities of the Municipal Committee, which is responsible for Schengen cooperation and immigration issues, and the Foreign and Defence Committee, which is responsible for aid and refugee issues. The matter has therefore been referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence for its opinion, and it is quite natural to take this opportunity to thank both committees for their excellent and good cooperation in the matter. There is broad consensus in the Committee on the broad lines of both issues and solutions, although the Progress Party has chosen to stand outside the common comments. Last year we received a report from the High Commissioner for Refugees that concluded that never since World War II had so many people been on the run in the world. Today, the Refugee Aid presented the refugee accounts for 2015, and the figures they present show that we have gone from bad to worse. Now it is 59 million people who are driven away from their homes. Many of these people have Europe as their goal and will try to create a new life here, and for many of them again, the gateway to Europe is the Mediterranean. In 2014, 221,000 people arrived on the high seas across the Mediterranean. The Italian rescue services picked up a total of 150,000 of them. The International Organisation for Migration, which monitors the situation, registered 3,400 people drowned in the Mediterranean in 2014. However, the organisation believes that for every equivalent they find and are registered, there are two more who are never found. Given that the assumption is true, 10,000 people drowned in the Mediterranean in 2014. This situation develops in such a way that we can talk about a new mass grave in Europe. The respectable efforts of the Italians were far more extensive than they had imagined when they launched the operation of Mare Nostrum. The rescue services required many ships and crews, there were also major search areas, and the costs were similar. Italy has therefore asked the EU and the rest of Europe for assistance in the form of rescue capacity or money. I am pleased that, in its statement on 30 April of this year, the Prime Minister met with what is the main intention of the draft representative we are dealing with, namely a reinforced Norwegian humanitarian effort in the Mediterranean. I would also like to stress that it is very good that the government decided to provide the time for the contribution to be in place, from the beginning of August this year until it is already in place. The ship "Siem Pilot" arrived on 7 June this year, and as far as I know, they are already taking part in operations in the area. I am also very pleased that the agreement between the government and the rescue company to send the rescue ship «Peter Henry von Koss» to the Mediterranean Sea has come into place. It shall not operate south of Italy, but further east of the Mediterranean Sea, in an operation called Poseidon. There is broad consensus in the Committee that this is a complex issue which cannot be solved by simple means. But it is also a recognition that we as a nation have a responsibility to contribute. The Committees have been clear that this cannot be resolved by simple means. It requires efforts in many areas: peace work, emergency aid, assistance to countries in the regions around the crisis areas, response to human smuggling, protection of refugees and refugees are all areas related to how we can cope with a very demanding situation, not least a very difficult situation for many thousands of people. This is also an area that is constantly evolving. The forecasts for the Mediterranean and the drownings in the Mediterranean this year are bad. Already 1,800 people have been registered dead. This indicates that the numbers are getting worse than last year. That is why there is a great deal of commitment to the Storing for the matter, and therefore there is also a broad majority behind a proposal asking the government to come back and keep the Storing up-to-date as to whether further changes in humanitarian efforts are necessary. Of course, we expect the government to follow it up in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1769	The government is actively contributing to the relief of the Mediterranean refugee disaster. That's good. The operation Triton includes a Norwegian supply ship with a total of 30 personnel with different competencies. The ship shall rescue refugees from drowning. Furthermore, Norway is a major financial contributor. The Progress Party believes that this contribution should be even greater, but unfortunately the majority of people want to spend the large amount of money on the few. We are going to have that debate tomorrow. The world's refugee flows are increasing. It's because of different relationships. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees reported today that there are over 50 million people on the run in the world. Not since World War II has so many people in the world been on the run. The reasons people flee are many: war, population growth, corruption, ethnic conflicts and Muslim extremism or a combination of them. Many are driven from their homes to other areas in the same country. Other refugees from their homeland. Basically, there is a lack of stability, social building, social organisation and governance that makes poor countries poor. In the past, the party of progress used a slogan in which it was hot: “The future is created – it is not adopted”. Growth, prosperity and well-being cannot be adopted. It requires self-responsiveness, willingness to cooperate and to share power. If poor countries are to succeed, they must be able to create their own future. Different groups must be found together in a common project that benefits all. The rich part of the world should provide humanitarian assistance to relieve crises and refugee flows, but it should contribute primarily to facilitating negotiations and diplomatic solutions. The primary responsibility for development must always be anchored in the countries themselves. The representative proposal we are discussing today draws attention to one of the consequences of coup d'état in several countries. People most flee, either because they fear for their own lives, or because they want a better life. It is understandable, but not sustainable, either for the countries from which they are fleeing or for the countries to which they are fleeing. Schengen cooperation is under enormous pressure. It is particularly severe in Italy and Greece. However, the solution is not a more even distribution of refugees in Europe. It's a short-term solution and will lead to even more people trying to get here. We would like to discuss each crisis separately, nationally and internationally, but in the long term such an approach is not sustainable. The comment of the Party on the suspension by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy draws attention to the changes in the system that need to be made. Today's national asylum treatment systems bring everything we don't want. We experience human smuggling, minor asylum seekers who are sent in advance on a dangerous journey, people who seek asylum without need of protection, and people who are refused but who nevertheless remain in the country. The same is true throughout Europe. It creates great distrust of the system among the Europeans most, while increasing the scepticism of refugees in the countries. The world needs one system, with one set of rules for the handling of asylum applications. The criteria should be the same. The Progress Party therefore considers that the time is overdue to establish a common permanent reception centre for asylum seekers. Such a centre should be established under the auspices of the United Nations and financed jointly by the United Nations Member States. Such a system could provide protection for people with a real need, while people with other motives could be rejected. At the same time, national treatment of asylum applications will cease. Such a system will be able to restore the sustainability of the asylum institution while enhancing the understanding and acceptance of refugees in the country of destination of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1784	The issue today concerns the news picture and the reality of the refugee situation in the Mediterranean. It's alarming. Several thousand people have lost their lives in different crafts. People flee from war, persecution and dissolution and fight for survival, dignity and future. I would therefore like to commend and thank the rapporteurs and the committee for their work and for putting this on the agenda, and we support the proposal that has been put forward. The number is not 50 million refugees, as we heard in the previous article. Today the refugee aid comes with its refugee account, which tells that it is about. 60 million, 59,5 million, in 2014 – an increase of more than 8 million just last year. Human smuggling, speculation and organized crime are part of this inhuman drama. The outlook for this year is critical, the number of cross-sea refugees has increased compared to previous years. It was expected. The Municipal Committee received a alarming update on this on a committee mission to the UN Refugee Commissioner in Geneva this winter. Dramatic accidents and rescue operations are reported. The background to this situation is states in disintegration, flight from terror, war and persecution. Many have need of protection, and other refugees hoping to find a better life and a better future for themselves and their families. In 2013, Italy launched the Mare Nostrum rescue program after serious boating accidents, tragedies that opened its eyes to what happened at the doorstep of Europe. However, the maritime rescue programme was stepped down in 2014. Italy did not receive enough support from EU countries to cover the monthly cost — nearly 80 million. kr. When the rescue program Mare Nostrum was stepped down, we were left with the EU control and surveillance authority Frontex, who cooperates with the Italian coastguard on parts of the rescue and search services. The action is called Triton, and is primarily a border control. The program has a budget of about half what Mare Nostrum had. However, Triton has saved thousands of refugees, but it is still uncertain what Triton is getting to say for the management of the refugee situation in the Mediterranean. Norway has helped police officers to conduct interviews and screening of refugees. Norway contributes by sending down coastguard ships, and state council Burnde recently assured the Storting that marine rescue is, of course, in the mandate. Now services are also rented from the Rescue Company. The Christian People's Party believes that this is very good, and that we must continue to assess whether we can contribute more. In addition, each 20th vessel located in the international waters of the Mediterranean Sea near the coast of Libya is Norwegian. In 2014, Norwegian ships alone raised over 2,500 refugees. According to the Shipowners’ Association, the situation is unsustainable and even ships are reported to be rehabilitating in order to avoid encountering the needy and helpless. Clearly, the magnitude of this humanitarian disaster cannot be resolved either by Italy, Frontex or the merchant fleet, but only by international cooperation. Norway should participate in accordance with the needs of both water, air and shore life-saving appliances. Norway’s outer border is no longer just Storskog, Danish boat or Svinesund. Norway shall be a nation which promises high respect for life and well-being, capable of assisting both materially and with staff, and which is not least involved in political processes that can address the root causes. Now a much larger and more comprehensive effort and action is needed for the very root causes. The Christian People's Party wants a strong Norwegian commitment and a coordinated policy to help the many refugees and the situation from which they escape. In the absence of such an initiative, the situation may escalate and the humanitarian situation may deteriorate. On the basis of the previous speeches and the statement made by the representative of the Progress Party, I hope that we will at least need to provide assistance to these countries in order to ensure the development of democracy and the improvement of the living conditions of these people. As you can see, there was an uplifting article. The Christian People's Party is pleased that this has become so high on the agenda. The need of others is our challenge. The Christian People's Party believes that we have a moral duty, yes, a Christian duty, to help in this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1805	The stream of refugees in the Mediterranean has not been smaller since the draft representative was tabled in March, but our awareness of the enormous challenges and sufferings faced by boat refugees has been stronger. Norway has now entered into cooperation with other European countries to help. A Norwegian ship is about to take part in the relief work, and services from the Rescue Company will come to it. It's important, and that's good. But the fact that something has happened does not in any way mean that the warning lights can be shut down. We are facing enormous challenges to relieving nudity and preventing the cynical exploitation of human beings in flight from human smugglers and terrorists who make themselves rich at the needs of others. We manage an adjustment made by the Municipal and Administrative Committee, but where the Foreign and Defence Committee has given its opinion on the matter. I am pleased that the comments of both committees underline that this is a humanitarian crisis that cannot be resolved by monitoring alone. The greatest challenges will still be how to help a person in need to live a safer life. It is mainly extreme poverty and war that cause a dangerous and costly journey of life that is seen as a better alternative than being living in the home country or in the vicinity of the home country. Our most important effort, therefore, will be to contribute to the efforts of the international community to stop the acts of war, help the neighbourhoods and accept transfer refugees. The last one will be handled by the Stortinget tomorrow, so it'll be here. The destabilization of several countries in North Africa has made human trafficking an almost uncontrolled activity, not least from Libya. One of the major challenges for the Triton operation, which we're part of, is how to act in the oceans outside these countries, and how to include military action. The Central Party makes it clear in its own note that Norwegian efforts must not lead us to join the military forces in international operations outside NATO without this being anchored in the UN Charter and having a clear UN mandate. In the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, we state that any request for military assistance from Norway would require thorough national treatment before any Norwegian yes. Together with the Christian People’s Party, the Left and the SV, the Central Party states that an additional Norwegian contribution to the Mediterranean “must aim to save lives and reduce the humanitarian disaster”. The centre party is aware that the ship that has now been deployed should have this as its purpose, and hopes that the government will be able to confirm it again. In the proposal for a decision of the Committee, we ask that the government keep the Storting informed of progress in work and of the need for changes in humanitarian action. There is little credit to us if we end up cutting off other important aid projects to finance aid for the refugees in the Mediterranean. With today's updated figures from the Refugee Aid, where we see that nearly 60 million refugees need help, and that only in the last year have we had an increase of 8 million people who don't have a home – who have no place they can call their home – and who need the help of the international community to do well, I know only one thing for sure: we have to set up and share our wealth. More resources will be needed. Unfortunately, there is little reason to believe that the refugee situation in the Mediterranean will find a solution through the measures so far in place. Therefore, it is important that the size is updated and that we can come up with new and strengthened measures as the situation requires.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1828	In the proposal, the proposers refer to the critical refugee situation, which we in the Left very much agree with. More and more people are fleeing from wars and conflicts. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees reported today that 59.5 million people are fleeing the world. An increasing number of desperate people are willing to risk their lives on the dangerous journey across the Mediterranean. UNCHR has estimated that some 3,200 people have drowned on their way across the Mediterranean to Europe last year. Over 22,000 people have lost their lives in the last 15 years. This makes the Mediterranean the world's most dangerous frontier between non-war countries. The situation is described as the greatest humanitarian crisis in our part of the world. The Mediterranean is our outer border as a result of the Schengen cooperation. Very many of the ships operating in the area are Norwegian. That means that we have a special responsibility to assist the region. Norwegian ships and seafarers and Norwegian relief organisations do, and have done, a formidable effort in the Mediterranean. They've saved a lot of lives. The left is concerned that the contribution of the Norwegian authorities should be aimed at saving lives and reducing the humanitarian disaster in the Mediterranean. There is a need for action in several areas: peace work, emergency aid, assistance to countries in the region around crisis areas and action against trafficking in human beings, protection of refugees and displaced persons — all areas connected. Furthermore, we must combat the underlying causes of migration. The development of poverty reduction is central and there is a need to focus on education and contribution now on peace and reconciliation. In addition, Norway should take the lead in ensuring a broader reform of migration legislation in Europe, in particular asylum legislation, and regulation of the Dublin Agreement, with a view to a more balanced distribution of responsibilities between countries. The left considers that the government must take initiatives towards the EU in order to contribute to European coordination in order to resolve the situation in the Mediterranean. In particular, it is important to address issues of burden-sharing in Europe, response to human traffickers and protection along escape routes. A bilateral agreement with Italy should also be considered as appropriate. Refugee flows are increasing, and Norway must contribute to a solution. It is therefore important to keep the Storting informed about the progress of work and the need for changes in the humanitarian response.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1841	There are some pictures that never disappear from the retina, and I want to mention two of them: it's the refugee girl in Vietnam who with napalm on his back jumped from the flame sea, and then it's the Greek grandfather standing with the little boy with knitted jacket and Norwegian hat on his head. The boy was alive when he was taken ashore, but he died. He had an uncle in Norway, that boy, he never showed up. These pictures tell what this is all about. There are now almost 60 million refugees in the world. Nine out of ten are displaced to other developing countries. It is therefore not the case that the rich countries take their responsibilities — on the contrary, they disclaim too much of their responsibilities. While human life is at risk, we build fences and walls around us seas – the Europe that likes to assert its human rights culture. Some of the things that may have scared me the most this winter are some of Europe's reactions to the smuggling networks, talking about bombing boats. It is not possible to compare search and rescue with searching and destroying and lowering boats. Just thinking about lowering boats carrying refugees to save lives is absurd – it's an absurd suggestion to come along. The cause of the problem is not smugglers, but war, hopelessness and total lack of security and legitimate alternatives to escape. Yesterday there was a chronicle on the opinion of a Vietnamese boat refugee. He writes about when he was a boat fugitive, and there's an opinion I think many need to read, for what he describes, is what the situation is for those who actually risk their own and their family lives in such a situation, and that the assessments we sit here and do are totally irrelevant in their situation. There is a need to mobilise to save more. There is a need to mobilise to improve the situation in many of the countries from which these refugees come. Then I am very pleased with that representative Tuskedal of the Christian People's Party reminded us – I think the representative of the Central Party did – that we cannot finance aid to refugees in cutting in unhelp and assistance elsewhere in the world. It cannot be that we in the Kingdom of Norway are going to finance this aid we see is absolutely vital, by taking the money from other poor people. I don't think that's a good idea. We have a far greater responsibility than that. One boat from Norway is good, but not enough. That boat is part of a border control that also has a rescue mission – that’s good – but that’s not enough. Norway must initiate a new rescue operation so that humanitarian organisations unable to participate in border control can also contribute. The Red Cross told us during the consultation at Stortinget on this proposal that they would like to contribute, but they cannot contribute in border control; it is not a humanitarian organisation's task. But they want to contribute. Doctors Without Borders have organized their own rescue operation for this. It must be for a separate rescue operation, and it also proposed last year. Then we were dismayed. Now I hear that there are several parties that call for us to look at how the European migration system is, that we have to renegotiate it with a better sharing of responsibilities and other mechanisms between countries. I've seen what politicians in Italy have said about this in the last few days. They describe their situation in which they are left with many refugees, as catastrophic. They don't stamp passports anymore, they let people travel, and that means you get even more refugees in Europe that are not registered. No one can do that. But the longer we wait with this, the more it is about defining the refugees who are in danger of life, as the problem, while there is something quite different that is the problem, namely the situation from which they flee, and that we can't help anymore. I would like to address the proposal we have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1860	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1863	The refugee aid overview of the refugee situation in the world confirms that we have an international humanitarian situation that is terrible and is moving in the wrong direction. Nearly 60 million people are on the run only in 2014 because of violence, war and oppression, and 20 million more – at least – because of natural disasters. This is the big picture of the situation we are now discussing, which is the situation in the Mediterranean. The Greens are pleased that the Foreign Affairs Committee has stressed in its play that this situation also requires Norway to contribute, through cooperation with the UN, with the EU, with the African Union, through peace work, assistance and action against human smuggling, and by providing protection to more people. We have now reached an agreement that we should accept 8 000 Syrian refugees from another conflict. There's one step on the way, but it's far from enough. We know that both regional actors and international powers continue to supply arms to conflicts, which are their markets. That is why it is so important that Norway, as an arms exporter, has full control of where our weapons end up, both those we produce and sell, and those we sell used. That means that we have to stop selling war material to authoritarian regimes like Saudi Arabia and Oman, as the Greens have previously proposed, and that means that we need to step up control of the marketing of out-of-the-box Norwegian war material, on which the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs now has cases. And we must begin to demand the end-user statement of our allies, too, because it must be a common goal in NATO that all countries take responsibility for the fact that wars and disasters are not allowed to escalate in such a way as to create enormous humanitarian crises. This is not a sign of distrust of our allies; it is just agreeing that we should take responsibility. Although the situation in the Mediterranean is extremely uncertain, it is worth noting that our European Minister, on questions from the press, would not rule out Norway contributing to military operations off the coast of Libya, for example. to destroy the vessels of the human smugglers. The Green Party will stress most strongly – as the Central Party also mentions in the vote – that Norway must not give military forces to such operations without sunscreen anchoring in the UN system and a clear UN mandate, and that if such a matter approaches the agenda at all, the Storting must be very closely involved from the start. The Greens agree with the Christian People's Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Left that further Norwegian contributions must be primarily aimed at saving lives. The fact that we now use boats of different kinds is an excellent example of how Norway can set up. We in the Green Party will also mention that our closely cooperating party groups, European Greens, which is a large group in the European Parliament, require the EU to do the same. They are working hard for a strong and reinforced humanitarian response, where the main aim is not to protect Europe’s borders but to save lives. Through the Greens in Europe, we are working for an effective international system that can monitor and control ships in order to prevent the dangerous journeys across the Mediterranean and prevent piracy elsewhere. It is the closed borders that create human traffickers, and it is poverty that creates human traffickers. Therefore, one of the solutions is not to build more fences, but to provide more legal and safe roads for asylum seekers into Europe. The Dublin system is not working and needs to be reformed. We cannot leave it to Italy to accept this flow of refugees alone and sit far north of Europe and be the best protected against this problem. We have to take responsibility for solving a growing problem. That's also our problem. Yeah, there's going to be a problem here at home, yeah, it'll cost money, yeah, it'll create conflict, but it's the consequence that there are huge conflicts internationally, which we simply can't have as a policy that we just have to shut ourselves out of.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1879	I would like to thank the Committee for an interesting debate which shows in many areas that there is a broad consensus about much, but also that there are some political disagreements about something. Traffickers in the Mediterranean as a result of migration across the Mediterranean are serious. Action is needed both in the short and longer term to meet these challenges, and there is a common European responsibility. As is known by several speakers, the government has sent a ship to participate in Frontex’ operation Triton in the Mediterranean Sea. The ship sailed from Norway at the end of May and is now in the area of operation of Triton. ‘Siem Pilot’ participates in the border control operation and thus also contributes to saving lives. As you know, the government has also decided to accept the very generous offer of the Rescue Company to send a rescue skate to the Mediterranean Sea, also to contribute to the border operation and to save lives. The rescue shoot will enter the Frontex operation Poseidon in Greece. The pressure on the eastern Mediterranean has not diminished, and there is also a great need to have vessels for border control and maritime rescue. On board the ship offered to Frontex by the government, there will also be Norwegian police officers to deal with border control tasks and security. The exact time for the participation of the rescue skate has not yet been fully clarified. A new and revised Triton operational plan was signed by Italy and Frontex at the end of May. The Government welcomes the strengthening of the operation both through several vessels and through an extended geographical area of operation. As far as the large migration picture is concerned, the most important effort we can make is to help people from where they come from, thus helping fewer people to embark on a dangerous journey towards Europe. Human smuggling is one of the major challenges that is part of the migration image around the Mediterranean. Norway, of course, supports the fight against human trafficking networks and a wide-ranging effort within the framework of international law. It is positive that Europe is looking at opportunities to combat criminal trafficking networks. Cooperation with European countries and the EU is essential to address these challenges, but it is not a European problem alone. From both the EU and Norwegian authorities, emphasis is placed on cooperation both with countries of origin and with transit countries. Norway is now stepping up assistance to people on a flight from the Middle East and the Horn of Africa to North Africa to prevent people from embarking on a very dangerous journey and paying traffickers to transport them to Europe. In total, Norway’s efforts to save lives and to remedy the situation in both countries of origin and transit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1894	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1897	I need to ask the Council of State about his and the government's view of any action to destroy the boats of the human smugglers. I take it for granted that the government does not at all believe that you should destroy boats with refugees in – that is no reason to ask. What Doctor Without Borders points out to us is that if you destroy the boats, you will leave thousands of people to themselves, in a life-threatening situation in Libya. There we know that there is no security at all, and that they are completely abandoned to sea in a situation that is impossible to get out of. Does the Council of State see that such an action could result in such an escalated disaster?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1902	It's a very complicated and complex question. I also believe it is very clear that many of those who travel to sea in these boats are in an acute, life-threatening situation. It also shows the examples that the representative himself had in his post. That's why I'm not convinced that one is so much better than the other. But what is a serious problem is that people serve themselves richly at the expense of others in such contexts. One of the tools they use is worn-out, deadly boats in which they send out families. The fact that the EU is willing to do what they can to prevent such a situation seems to me to be positive. So it has to be done in such a way that it places refugees in an even more difficult situation as far as possible than they are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1909	Much of this comes from the fact that there are no other legal ways to get to Europe as a refugee for many of these people. That they should be stuck in a country like Syria, where there is a violent conflict and no security, is a situation at least authorities have to take the strongest responsibility for if such action is to be taken. So no one disagrees that many of these craft are deadly. That's why people drown and therefore more rescue operations are needed that go closer to the coast of Africa. If the Council of State could say a little bit more about the concrete things going on in this area, it would be good. Can the Council of State confirm, when he says he is going to help people where they come from, that it must be impractical to cut aid to finance such measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1916	The representative is concerned that some of these difficulties arise because there are no legal migration routes to Europe. I think it's important to remember that very many of those who are part of these migration flows are not refugees alone. These are not just war refugees; there are also a number of people who travel to seek happiness elsewhere, come to Europe to work, and they take a very great risk, with the tragic outcome it has. Then there are many who flee from war, distress, hunger and misery, and therefore the government has been very clear that one should strengthen assistance in the neighbourhoods. The government has done that, both to Syria and to other parts of the world where there are major challenges. I think you have to admit that the problem is complex. I believe the representative also did so in his post. There is no quick fix on this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1923	There is no one who believes, but it is now a reality that the government is funding aid measures through agreement, with cuts in aid otherwise. But we can leave it behind and discuss it more tomorrow. We cannot discuss this once without the word "happy" or "happy" appearing. I hope we could avoid that. Whether this is a war situation or another situation in which you risk losing your life of hunger, or that the children do, where there is not a single kind of security, I would hope that you might be able to talk about this in a slightly different way. These are people who are seeking a minimum measure of security and future in their lives, in the same way that we have. Don't the Council of State agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1930	Kind of. But what was my point was to find out that there are many motives for traveling. The large migration flows are not just due to one relationship; they are due to many different relationships. I think it's important to recognise as a problem simply if you're going to find the best solutions. I don't think the solution then is to make sure that as much as possible moves. The solution must be to ensure that the conditions at the place of residence of these persons are as good as possible, so as to avoid, for example: persons who will be highly resource-resourced, who will be important for the reconstruction of these countries, will leave the country rather than remain. There we have a great responsibility, both Norway and the rest of the world, to facilitate a development that will strengthen the social and humanitarian conditions of the countries from which the large migration flows originate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1935	It's a complex and difficult area we're discussing today, and it's not a simple answer. But the new Triton action that has now come into force, and where Norway participated with a ship, has a different device than the work that had previously been done in the area where search and rescue were in focus. There has been more focus on border surveillance and on taking out boats that might be used by what we might call criminals, who tend to spend a lot of money putting the boats at their disposal. Can the State Council confirm that the Norwegian contribution will be used for search and rescue and not for any more military tasks in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1940	This ship shall not be used for military duties, but it is part of a border control force which shall also operate search and rescue. I think it's important to remember that what's the background for Triton, is basically a boundary operation that's expanded to also focus on search and rescue, and now lately the geographical area is also expanded compared to what was the case before. It's probably also because there's more people who contribute resources into Triton now than it's done before. However, this ship shall not be used in any effort similar to the military character at all. It is a pure Triton operation in which the Norwegian ship is to participate. If the EU subsequently requests assistance to other types of capacity and resources and other types of activity, it will need to be assessed separately and completely independent of both the ship that has now been disembarked and, of course, the rescue boat that is about to descend.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1945	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1951	First, I need to stress that SV, like the Center Party, believes that there can be no NATO operation without anchoring in the UN Pact and the UN mandate, as stated in the remark. It's probably an incubation that we're not in on it. To the proposal we are promoting, I record that there are several parties now saying that this is what we need. I would then encourage more people to vote in favour of it, because it is obvious that we need to set aside more funds for search and rescue in the Mediterranean to next year. There is nothing to suggest that the need will be less to next year, unfortunately. We must then have a rescue operation, so that it is also possible to cooperate with large international relief organizations on this rescue work, and it must be the first priority to save lives. The second part of the proposal is also concerned with several batches, including: The left, they have been up and said that they agree, namely that there must be a change in migration legislation in Europe and also in Dublin cooperation. The countries that are coastal States of the Mediterranean countries report that this is about to collapse for their part, and that in various ways they are almost in the process of sabotaging the agreement by not stamping passports and identification papers when refugees arrive. If they do, they risk that they will be the ones to complete all the applications and also give them a stay. It is easy to see that there is a difficult situation, especially when Norway will be discussing tomorrow whether to accept 10,000 refugees over ten years of age. This is a country that now accepts many, whether it can in no way be compared to the responsibility that poor countries take and that they have to take, and from which they have no opportunity to free themselves, precisely because they are neighbouring countries to conflict areas – such as Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey are now. And many other African countries have become a kind of new country for many refugees who have had to travel from different conflicts and difficult disasters on that continent. We also now have a situation in Asia, where boat refugees from Myanmar are pushed out to sea and are in great distress at sea. No one has an overview of how many die there either. This is becoming a major international problem. SV agrees that this requires broad solutions, but we believe Norway needs to do more.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1966	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1980	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose free debate, but that the change of lines is limited to up to six lines with replies after the first post of a member of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e1985	I begin by stressing that when the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee decided together to examine the report on the National Audit Office's investigation into the work of the Ministry of Justice and Defence on social security and preparedness, it was neither then nor is it the intention today to allocate blame and so-called responsibility. The aim must and should be to discuss what is the reason why preparedness is not working as it should be, despite the thorough debate we have had in Norway – including here in the Chamber – after the tragedy of 22 July 2011. The size has also made clear decisions that changing governments have been responsible for following up. Of course, preparedness and security are essential for the population. It would not be appropriate for the Stortinget to wait to examine the Riksrevisions report for the autumn. It is not the mandate of the Control and Constitutional Committee to further determine the way forward. In the setting we are now considering, there are different opinions about the reasons for the situation described in the Riksrevision report, which I will of course come back to. Nevertheless, it is an overall committee that is proposing a decision here today to call on the government to promote a comprehensive communication on social security and preparedness during 2016 to allow the Stortinge to see the entire preparedness in a coherent context. It is nevertheless worth noting that at one important point there are different opinions about the premises for such a notification. The majority of the Committee, consisting of all parties other than the Right and the Advance Party, will consider the serious findings made in the report of the National Audit Office to be part of the basis for the notification. On the other hand, the Right Party and the Advance Party do not wish to do so. I'm assuming that the government will comply with the majority of the Biggest at this point. I also believe that the Right Party and the Advance Party themselves explain their position and the background that they believe that the serious findings of the Riksrevision should not form the basis for the biggest message to come in 2016. Then I'd like to express my regret. After July 22, there was a broad understanding of what went wrong, and where the way went. Now, on the other hand, in dealing with this matter, there is no consensus as to what the status is. We have to assume that it is in itself a challenge for readiness that there is no consensus. If everything is good, what should be improved? And more importantly, what about the culture and management of the administration when we don't agree here in the Stortinget? I'm sorry about this. The aim of the National Audit Office’s investigation has been to determine the extent to which the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the DSB discharge their responsibilities for social security and preparedness. The main finding of the National Audit Office is that serious weaknesses in the exercise of coordination responsibilities weaken social security and preparedness. They move forward: Three out of nine ministries have to a small extent followed up the recommendations of the previous supervision carried out by the DSB on behalf of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The administration and follow-up of emergency services by the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the emergency services of the counties is deficient. No systematic evaluation and follow-up of exercises and events is carried out. There are weaknesses in the management and follow-up of the DSB by the Ministry of Justice and Security. The DSB’s activity management contributes to a limited extent to good target and performance achievements. The National Audit Office’s investigation was finalised in November 2014. It was – three years and four months after the largest terrorist attack in Norway, – two years and three months after the July 22 Commission report, where we found out how much went wrong the fatal day and how much failed in advance. How the nation at all was not prepared mentally that something so terrible could happen. How the good cancers didn't find each other, as it was called. Prime Minister Stoltenberg summarised the Gjørv Commission's report in his presentation to the Stortinget after the presentation, saying that the problems included: These plans were in existence, but not implemented, and cultural attitudes to preparedness and interaction were the problem and not the lack of resources, legislation or organisation. – one year and nine months after the Storting’s suspension of the Gjørv Commission report, in which the Stortinget unanimously stated that the July 22 Commission report was to be used as a basis for our joint story of what happened on July 22, 2011, a report that ruthlessly pointed out how the police had failed, how the coordination in advance was a underlying cause for much of what went wrong that day. And – here I say ‘and’ – it was a unanimous big deal that, at the initiative of the then government parties, agreed and concluded the decision, and also promoted criticism of the then government. It was a unanimous big deal. All of this has now been said so that we should bring this with us as a back cover when we are now going to deal with the matter that is being dealt with today. Then I say the following sentence: we've learned. We've learned that we shouldn't push reports aside. That's why I say, the Labour Party takes for its part the Riksrevision report in the deepest seriousness. Nothing is more important than the safety and security of the population. Therefore, our intention was not to base party policy preferences, but to try to find out what is the reality — what has been done to correct weaknesses in work, and whether the shortcomings pointed out are due to the fact that the measures taken have not yet been effective for a sufficient period of time. The urgent procedure, as I said, has been necessary for the importance of the policy area. In this short time, the Committee has also held open consultations with both the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, with the Directorate of Police and with former and current Ministers of Justice. In addition, in the form of a letter, we have asked the Prime Minister questions on the basis of the government's establishment of its own so-called national security and preparedness element at the Prime Minister's office, as part of drawing on preparedness – or in order to use the wording of the government platform: Transparency in emergency work is to be resumed. The reason why we asked the question of the security and preparedness element was to clarify the role of this coordinating body. The treatment of the Gjørv Commission's report taught us that clear responsibilities and clear lines are important when disaster strikes. The Prime Minister replied to the committee before the hearing, and except to establish it of course, that the government itself decides how it organizes its work, I don't get much wiser of the answer. But one might well conclude that this element has at least not had the meaning that the government suggested to the people before the elections – a stronger hand on preparedness, as it was said. On the contrary, the element may now have become a structure and still lead to a little confusion. We expect that this too will be discussed in the next communication. As the setting now stands, as I've already said, very few points are actually agreed on. This is probably due to several factors, including: the study goes over a period of time involving two governments, and it is probably also about the sensitive area of the topic addressed – security. What has been most difficult, however, is the fact that there is no consensus on the basis of which the Riksrevision report is based in the Committee. It's alarming, and it's very serious. It is alarming because it has not happened until government parties have not recognised the findings made by the Riksaudition, appointed by the Stortinget to control the administration, and there is no reason to doubt that they will carry out their work at a professional and high level. I know that there are forces in turn to undermine the credibility of the National Audit Office. We still hear it. The idea is shared by several. I think the President is aware of that. It also claims that the Riksrevision contributes to time theft and red tape. It's wrong. According to a large Nordic research project comparing national audits in the Nordic countries, on the contrary, it is established that the Riksrevision is guarding our administration and preventing corruption, and that it actually improves governance. I have to spend some time on this: the administration in Norway is good, among other things. Because both government and government feel that it is natural to be controlled, as opposed to young democracies, where governments oppose control, and where corruption and everything else we do not want is much more widespread. In addition, this matter of this matter is quite specific, a very sensitive matter, namely the readiness: the condition that the Riksrevision should have authority is that Parliament confers that authority. Therefore, the government parties’ rejection of the Riksrevisions report in this case is very serious. In the light of the wide disagreement, I would like to present the views of the Labour Party, which is largely supported by the SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens, but which does not represent the majority on several points. I therefore repeat that I believe it is most correct that the other parties themselves present their comments. As already stated, the aim of the National Audit Office’s investigation has been to determine the extent to which the Ministry of Justice and Security and the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness are effectively and in accordance with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. In order to illustrate this, a sample of coordination instruments has been taken into account. It's: supervision of departments learning after events and exercises management and follow-up of emergency personnel; As I have already pointed out, it is serious when the National Audit Office's investigation shows that there are serious weaknesses in the use of these instruments, and that the division of roles and responsibilities between the Directorate and the Department in some areas appears unclear. And, as I said, we were set to get to the bottom of this. During the hearing, held on 6 June, it was found that there was disagreement as to whether the report provided a correct picture of the findings. Doubts were also raised as to whether the findings were correct. The director of the DSB, Jon A. Lea, stated that there is concern that there is a spread of the impression that social security is poor and that there is no safety in Norway, and that there is no basis for this. The representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan of the Christian People's Party summed up in the hearing this disagreement between the Riksrevision and Lea in this way: ‘What remains after this first session of the hearing today is the strong disagreement that has arisen between the DSB, expressed by Lea, and the conclusions of the National Audit Office.’ That's probably the understanding most of us had. It is certainly unusual for a director of a directorate to express himself in this way, but he felt perhaps he was on a secure basis all the time the Minister of Justice in his letter to the Riksrevision had expressed much of the same. In the hearing, however, the State Council did not share the views of Anundsen Director Lea. The Council of State said: «Everyone – at least as far as I register – agrees that the supervisory report is very good. The national audit report is largely based on the findings of the supervisory report, so the deviation between the two is relatively low. It is clear that the references made by the Riksaudition are important and correct and they agree with the supervisory report.’;» I would like to express my joy at the fact that the Council of State said this in the hearing. We're happy about that. At the same time, however, we believe that the disagreement and the change in explanation may indicate that the Riksrevision is right when it points out that dialogue and communication between the department and the directorate are not good enough. It's a proof of that when the council says one thing and the director of the board says another thing, however, something different in his written communications with the National Audit Office in relation to what they say in Stortinget. What is much more serious, however, is that when the Riksrevision cast doubt on the coordination between the directorate and the department is good enough, the director of the directorate reacts with his defence and claims – in a big hearing – that nothing is wrong, but that there is the wrong method and conclusion at the Riksrevision. Then, unfortunately, we have to ask ourselves the following questions: Is there any reason to believe that such an organisation is prepared to learn? The answer to this is, as I can understand, unfortunately no. The serious thing is that the core issue in all preparedness work after 22 July is the ability to learn lessons from the experience, exercises, supervision and controls carried out by the National Audit Office. The Workers' Party believes that both the government of Stoltenberg and the government of Solberg have shown the ability to learn. I think both governments have the power to do it. We do not in any way deny the efforts that Anders Anundsen has made. We recognise it, just as we recognize the work that Grete Faremo did as Minister of Justice. This does not happen to the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, who in the vote believe that everything that has happened to improvements in the Ministry of Justice and Defence has happened in Anders Anundsen’s time as Minister of Justice – and only then. There, of course, our paths are separated. This is not just historyless, it is politically and intellectually unreasonable. When Grete Faremo became Minister of Justice and Defence on 11 November 2011, she began with a clear mandate to improve preparedness. On 22 July, an administration in the Ministry of Justice left on a bar and in great sorrow. Working conditions have been Spartan since the Ministry of Justice was literally bombed. Nevertheless, 1,046 measures were taken. State Health Authority, as at kgl. Res. On 21 June 2013, the Ministry of Justice’s work in the field of social security and preparedness was entrusted with oversight, but it was also concluded that a number of measures had been taken by the Ministry, in particular as regards crisis management, as they write in the report. This is in line with the opinions expressed in the hearing of former Minister of Justice Faremo and police director Humlegård respectively, who also highlighted all the measures taken just after 22 July. Minister of Justice Anundsen has followed up this work, there is no doubt about it, but it can, according to my best judgement, not doubt that there are still gaps, as the Riksrevision also points out. In my opinion, the government parties take a great chance if they actually insist on believing that everything is now in the very best condition in terms of preparedness, because it is such that if nothing is wrong, there is nothing better to do either. In addition, it appears as a significant paradox that the government parties, which consider the Riksrevision report not to be taken into account, are very concerned that the parts of the Riksrevision report dealing with the former Minister of Justice Faremo’s period as Minister of Justice are valid — but the rest of the report should not be valid. It is a great paradox that I believe this debate will clarify. In the National Audit Office’s study, the preparedness work is being criticised. Coordination is proving problematic in many areas of society. In the field of preparedness, coordination is essential when a crisis situation arises. One of the main findings of the Gjørv Commission was that what went wrong on 22 July, for a large part, was a lack of coordination – about the good forces that did not find each other. Another important finding was just a lack of ability to learn from events and exercises. Against this background, I believe it is very important that the Riksrevision chose to investigate whether these deficiencies were rectified almost four years after the largest terrorist attack on Norwegian soil. The National Audit Office’s investigation is consistent with and draws conclusions in the light of the oversight carried out in the Ministry of Justice. The report of the State Health Authority, presented in April 2014, points out in particular that cooperation between the Rescue and Emergency Department and the Police Department of the Ministry of Justice has been difficult for a number of years and appears to be so demanding that the effectiveness and quality of the work on social security and preparedness can be affected. In the hearing, of course, former Justice Minister Faremo asked what she had done to correct this internal disagreement. She replied that, among other things, obtained external assistance, replaced the department's top management and started work on defining common sense and structure. We recognise Faremo's efforts to strengthen the coordination role in the Ministry of Justice and Defence, but we nevertheless believe that in his two years, Faremo should have moved further in the process of creating a better management culture and thus better interaction within the ministry. We mean both. At the same time, we believe that the Minister of Justice, Anundsen, at an earlier stage, should have made sure that the poor cooperation between the rescue and emergency services and the police department was resolved. A Minister of Justice from a government that has placed great emphasis on repatriation of the effectiveness of preparedness should have given priority to examining what should be done in the coordination of preparedness work as of today. I would like to point out that, several times during the hearing, former Minister of Justice Faremo stated that the core challenge of good coordination both within the Department and with other departments and agencies is that preparedness goes over several levels of government, that it is a limited institutional responsibility, and that it is an administratively managed operational system. Together with the Swedish Environment Party and the Greens, we agree with this consideration and believe that the necessary changes in management should be assessed in such a way as to enable the Ministry of Justice and Defence to monitor effectively its coordination responsibilities. I would also like to point out that the Minister of Justice stressed in the hearing that, soon after the change of government, he started an organisational development process to improve the ministry's work in the field of social security and preparedness, inter alia. in view of the challenges raised by previous supervision, an internal report by the Ministry of Justice and Defence and its own experience. The National Audit Office also writes this in its report and believes that it is too early to say how these changes will turn out. For my part, I hope that the changes that have now been made by Anundsen to improve coordination both within the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the coordination role in other areas will work as intended. The main findings of the Riksrevision study show that there are weaknesses in the management and follow-up of the DSB by the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The Ministry’s governance has been largely activity-based until 2015, and the relationship between activity requirements and overall objectives has been unclear. The reporting of resource use is requested to a small extent and views on the dialogue between the Ministry and the DSB are quite different. I have already explained the disagreement expressed during the hearing and expressed concerns about learning ability if there is no ability to take up criticism as a result of the verification. When I reread the hearing with Director Lea in connection with the processing of the Gjørv Commission report, I was not reassured. Also, Director Lea claimed that since the 2002 review, the department’s oversight had improved and that the DSB and the Ministry of Justice had actively followed up the inspections carried out. Without supervision, Lea asserted that, as it is now, the focus on preparedness in the departments would have been lower, and that, in DSB’s opinion, it was better than in the past. And then, in 2012, at committee head Anundsen's question about how the Ministry of Justice took responsibility for following up exercises, Lea – at the time – replied that he too seemed to be doing this in a better way than before. In other words, it is difficult for anyone to capture that something is wrong and what should be done better when the advice of the supervisory authority is such, and it shows in my view how important it is for independent control, as carried out by the National Audit Office, to be carried out. The National Audit Office’s report stresses that the State plays an important role in promoting systematic and coordinated social security and preparedness work at regional and local level. The county is also linked between central and local authorities. However, it appears that instructions and guidance signals are unclear as to how the co-ordination role of the statesmen should be exercised when events occur. This leads to significant differences in the way jobs both understand and carry out their coordination role regionally. Finally, the Labour Party believes that the Riksrevision has done a thorough and important job when examining the work of the Ministry of Justice and Defence on social security and preparedness. We take the findings of the deepest seriousness, we have a hope that the Minister of Justice is constantly looking for things that can be improved, and we are very pleased that the Stortinget will once again have the opportunity to discuss social security in an overall perspective when the government makes its announcement in 2016. I refer to the vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2101	After hearing the case rapporteur explain the matter, I began to doubt whether it was the case rapporteur I heard, or whether it was the Labour Party representative, because usually one tends to show a certain ability to present the work of the committee and then mark that one goes over to what are the special points. Then I might start with what's a little bit of a joy, that there's a consensus about something. It's like this: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People’s Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party, point out that the report of the National Audit Office deals with a limited part of the emergency situation in Norway. The report is not an exhaustive review of the emergency situation in Norway but is limited to the work of the Ministry of Justice and Defence on social security and preparedness.’ Another majority goes on to say: ‘The report of the Court of Auditors cannot be used as a phase in the real situation, but must be seen as a report pointing to possible weaknesses in a limited part of the emergency area.’ When one hears that one's own contribution to this – the contributions of the parties Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left, which are quite in agreement in their comments – is that all that has been said is that everything is very well, it is not a very precise description. These parties have noticed very well what is mentioned in the report of the National Audit Office. We have looked at the findings relating to serious and safety-critical areas: three out of nine ministries have little followed up the recommendations of previous supervision by the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, hereinafter referred to as the DSB, on behalf of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. Secondly, the Ministry’s management and follow-up of the DSB and its staff’s preparedness efforts have been deficient, and the DSB’s operational management contributes to a limited degree to good target and performance management, and further to a lack of systematic evaluation and follow-up of exercises and events. However, it is this area that the Workers' Party itself has said is very limited, so we do not fully understand the opportunity to present the general emergency work in Norway as worse after 22 July than before. This means, since there has been a lack of clarity about how the preparedness has evolved up to today, that there must be a point to be made for the damage to be done by the rapporteur, namely to go beyond the Riksrevision report. Remember that some of our objections to the Riksrevision report, as it is presented, do not go on the report itself, but that is the way it has been interpreted – and I would say misleadingly presented – probably for political reasons, which the previous article could serve as an excellent example. When, as an essential building block in this report, the review of the Health Authority is used – because it is those who have had the review of the Ministry of Justice and Defence – it must be allowed to draw attention to the fact that their field work and data collection took place during the period that started in January 2013 and ended in December 2013. This does not mean that those who then point it out as a fact say that the report is not professionally reliable, but it may well be that they have the unpleasant point that it more shows the status of emergency work at the turn of the year 2013–2014. And then there is someone who overinterprets the elementary impact of the report's professional constraints on some areas and, not least, that it is based on data that has been collected substantially by the Health Inspectorate, which was thus completed later. We've gone through the critical points very carefully, and that's the way it should be, because because the National Audit Office itself does not have expertise, they have to make use of the expertise found at the level of the administration. But since it seems that someone has a pleasure to present the country's emergency work as a stand-alone rest, I would say that after the government change – which was a time gap, which the previous speaker stressed – more than 400 new policemen have been hired, and for the current year, there is another 350 new posts. The number of callouts has increased by well 400 people and now counts almost 1000 people. The target is 1,200 in sight. The emergency response force is reinforced by both personnel and equipment. Requirements for police response time have been introduced for the first time. All police districts now have access to at least one armoured vehicle. New national alarm is in progress. Helicopter readiness has been improved by reducing the clear time of the Defence Transport Assistance from two to one hour. New national cooperation procedure in the event of ongoing life-threatening violence — which was previously the ‘Sniping ongoing’ instruction — has been reviewed and renewed and amended. Police are now a priority in the mobile network from 2014. The PST, which is also part of the draft revised budget, is reinforced by some 205 million. kr. The Joint Counter-Terrorism Centre was established in 2014 to strengthen cooperation between the PST and the E service. The situation centre of the Ministry of Justice and Civil Protection has been staffed 24 hours a day. The main rescue unit is reinforced. Civil defence has received more money for equipment investment. Objects are protected by the Security Act. 16 new rescue helicopters are in order. The emergency network will be completed during the current year. New procedures for requesting assistance through enforcement assistance from the Defence are in place and a cooperation agreement has been concluded between the Directorate of Police and the Defence. From 2014, Kripos has played the role of national focal point for reporting on bomb chemicals. The national emergency response system, consisting of the Civil Protection System and Defence Protection Systems, has been revised. There is a lack of a dedicated vulnerability selection to go through cyber and ICT vulnerabilities, and the government aims to provide a new public security report during 2016. A new structure has been established for the meeting of the Council of State and the Heads of Police Directorate, PST, NSM and DSB to ensure close follow-up and dialogue. There are two main categories: ‘Required’ and ‘Improvement Points’. And as long as you have not reported back that this deviation between the present situation, which is undesirable, and the situation you want – the so-called gap – is recorded is closed, the supervision will remain as if it were closed, and thus it will deny anyone responsible for doing anything about the matter. Now, of course, there is also a greater transparency about the supervisory reports. They've also become searchable. There is more intensive reporting to the government and DSB has gained a greater role in the follow-up to the monitoring of departments. It may well be on this background that the director of the DSB does not quite like the dramaturgy – and the villain, we get to say – that some people had hoped he would play. I also have to say that the use of quotations that we received as an example in the opening speech to the case-rapporteur – which approached the misleading, I will allow myself to say – was clear that this irritation that was being told about, for example. what I was through now, and told about issues in the National Audit Office's report, which was correct when it was made, about a strenuous dialogue between DSB and the Ministry of Justice: It was history writing at the time of the hearing, and so it should be almost non-fine, uninvited, to express a reluctance to report back that this governance dialogue – which was just highlighted and as it was right for the Riksrevision to highlight, and which was correct when it was highlighted – had improved for the past year and a half. Is it immaterial? So if you don't even manage to stick to the Riksrevision Area Delimitation, Time Limitation, if you don't see or care about the professional supplies on which the Riksrevision is based, you can of course make a political notion. The problem with this is that it's so transparent that people can think of the formidable idea that it's not ready for you, but that there are political opponents you're after. And we're starting to get a number of issues where it seems that, through rather selective use of quotations and presentations, you abuse the good work done by our trade unions, which is done by the Riksrevision – not because you're concerned about matters, but because you're concerned with driving their little political bargains. Another example of this — which has not been mentioned by the National Audit Office at all — is the organisation of this security element at the Prime Minister’s office. That is the same question that the Workers' Party has asked three times, and they have not been satisfied with any of the answers they have received so far, while what is really the case is that in this report and also in the setting, we are at the point of general common knowledge of Norwegian preparedness, namely that it is the Ministry of Justice that is the great coordinator, and that we also stick to the principle of subsidiarity and accountability and several other principles. And then it's presented as a problem that the Prime Minister's office is strengthened in its internal organization, in a way that makes them better equipped to deal with unforeseen events, and we're in an area where exactly the unexpected is what to try to get ready for and be prepared for. It is therefore quite natural that there is a majority of the parties of the Grand Duchy to accept this by saying that the Riksrevisions report has not taken on board anything more than what is on the front page of the report, namely the Ministry of Justice's work on preparedness, and that the preparedness structure of the SMK has no decisive role in crisis management and does not change the decision-making structure established, and that the Ministry of Justice and Defence is a permanent Ministry of Executive unless a different Ministry of State is appointed. That's the way it is. It's not harder. So you can just use this as a little bit of an example of how difficult you can do even simple things, when you might not have so much to contribute to new suggestions on the way forward. I must also say that I react to the fact that a large number of what seems to be a joint order from the Committee is being made. It was the case that the Minister of Justice announced in the hearing that he was going to present his own big message during 2016 concerning the follow-up to both the Gjørv report and, in particular, the Report. St. 29 for 2011–2012, as well as other heavy documents that have led to the preparedness work in our country. Then we had a discussion, which might seem strange to many outside of political life, about whether the Storting should adopt this directly to act through a proposal that comes up – and we are also going to vote for today – or whether it had to stick to a majority remark. And because we did not support the wording of the Workers' Party, that it was the serious findings of the National Audit Office's report that were to form the basis for the big message that the Council of State has already said he is going to promote, this was the point that we wanted it not to be limited to the findings of the National Audit Office's report, because the problem picture can change. And that should not be limited to just the serious issues; it should also be limited to the less serious issues that require our attention. And then, of course, you have to be open so that the problem picture can change from we are dealing with this report today, until the Minister of Justice returns to the Stortinget with a message. Because this is also the case with the emergency work – and it came out very clearly – that you never finish: you close an area, you solve a problem, and then you show up with new things. So it was just so that we didn't interrupt the order to the government that we didn't participate in all of these judgment-day statements to the case rapporteur, and because we thought we had a more open and fair order, we weren't in that remark. But putting all its weight into misunderstandings with those committee colleagues who so differently on that process is worth a little consideration in itself. Then I can finish this review of the matter, and I can repeat our praise to the Riksrevision for having taken up a very important theme, while noting that the Riksrevision in its nature looks at the keel water behind the boat, and that of course we can learn from studying the keel water, but we have to do it in an interaction with the tradesetters, which is somewhat more forward-looking – of course, that's why they are tradesetters. Then in this interaction of retrospective control and foresight, which must be based on professional input, we can get to this together, and no one has expressed itself against either. And even if someone has got their motives doubted here today, at least I dare to say that the real consensus in this room is that we want to make Norway as safe and as good as possible, and then it may not clothe all the players – even if we had sometimes been wrong here – that we are magnifying the conflicts that might have to be between the parties in a competitive situation. I also wanted to say the last thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2154	Work on social security and preparedness is about protecting society from events that could threaten fundamental values and functions and endanger life and health. This is also included in the Message. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. A good preparedness is a prerequisite for people and businesses in our country to feel safe from threatening events and that they can feel that their security is being safeguarded. One must be able to claim that the main task of the State is to ensure the security of its citizens. For this reason, it is important that a continuous focus is on social security and preparedness work, and not least that one carries out regular checks on how this work works in practice on a daily basis. In this way, the Riksrevision report is a good report, and I give tribute to the Riksrevision for this work. The aim of the National Audit Office’s investigation has been to examine to what extent the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the DSB are taking responsibility for the work on social security and preparedness in an effective manner and in accordance with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. To illustrate this, consideration is given to the exploitation of a range of coordination instruments, including the supervision of departments, the learning of events and exercises and the management and follow-up of emergency personnel. The survey was mainly based on the period after 22 July 2011 and the data collection was completed in November 2014. The National Audit Office’s audit revealed the following: Serious weaknesses in the exercise of coordination responsibilities weaken societal security and preparedness. Three out of nine ministries have little followed up previous supervisory recommendations by the DSB on behalf of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The administration and follow-up of emergency services by the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the emergency services of the counties is deficient. No systematic evaluation and follow-up of exercises and events is carried out. There are weaknesses in the management and follow-up of the DSB by the Ministry of Justice and Security. The DSB’s activity management contributes to a limited extent to good target and performance. The National Audit Office’s report mainly concerns governance between administrative bodies and not the areas directly related to the operational part of preparedness. Nevertheless, the Riksrevision concludes that ‘the preparedness in Norway is about the same level as after 22 July’, that the preparedness is so ‘deficient that Norway’s preparedness is weakened’ and that ‘Norway is a less secure country than it should have been’. These quotations are taken from the National Press Conference of 21 May 2015, the National Press Conference of NRKs, the Post of Aften and VG respectively. On the basis of the impression of the seriousness of the Riksrevision report and the opinions of the National Auditor on the submission of the report, the Committee concluded that there was a need for consultation calling for key actors in social security and preparedness. As for what is part of the social security and preparedness work, I would like to quote what Director Jon A. Lea of the DSB said in his opening lecture: ‘The preparedness in Norway can be divided into four pillars, or four categories: first, the defence and second, the police’s work on crime — these two tasks are not the subject of this report. So it's life and health, which is handled by the emergency situations for health, fire and police, HRS, the volunteer organizations, the civil defence and others. That is not the subject of this report. And then there are societal security challenges beyond that, like, for example. electricity supply, eco-supply, transport, industry, extreme weather, floods, pandemics and radiation protection. The national audit review has concentrated on the management and control regime within a selected part within the last category.» From this point of view, the Progress Party considers that the Riksrevision report cannot be used as a phase of the current situation, but must be seen as a report that points to possible weaknesses in a limited part of the emergency area. The Progress Party has noted that all participants in the oral hearing of the Control and Constitutional Committee agreed that the Riksrevision has provided a good review of the parts of the coordination responsibility covered by the report. Furthermore, the Progress Party believes that this is a good foundation for further work, even though we disagree with the conclusions of the National Audit Office in some areas, and we also believe that there is no basis for drawing such far-reaching general conclusions that have been made on the basis of the National Audit Office's investigations. The Progress Party points out that the Riksrevision report is based mainly on the carried out supervision of the Health Authority, which was concluded in December 2013. Upon the explicit request of the Control and Constitutional Committee during the hearing of Director Jan Fredrik Andresen of the State Health Authority, it was black that no additional figures, facts or assessments were provided by the Health Authority to the National Audit Office after the conclusion of the Health Authority report. Thus, the management report largely reflects the efforts to improve preparedness measures as they faded at the end of 2013. This also appears to be confirmed by the National Audit Office’s reference to the Health Authority’s report for its part. The Health Authority found that the cooperation relations between the Police Department and the Emergency and Rescue Department in the Ministry of Justice and Security were so difficult that this could affect social security and preparedness work, and that this was also a matter that had been known for a long time and which was pointed out by previous supervision. When Minister of Justice and Defence Grete Faremo joined, there was a clear mandate to improve preparedness. The Party of Advancement refers to the former Council of State Grete Faremo said during the hearing: ‘I started as Minister of Justice and Security on 11 November 2011 with a clear mandate to improve preparedness. Good preparedness conditions, in my opinion, clear and good leaders and a structure that can be managed. Culture for management and governance had to be strengthened in the Ministry of Justice and in underlying agencies. You do not adopt good management, you have to work it out, with demands for managers, new skills, modern work processes and interaction.’ The Progress Party considers it critical that the Council of State did not adequately address the cooperation problems encountered in the Ministry of Justice and Defence after she took up the position. These were problems that have been known for a long time, and as it was absolutely necessary to get solved. As it appeared during the hearing, this created problems for the underlying agencies. After the accession of the current Minister of Justice, Anders Anundsen, this issue was really addressed shortly after the government change, by setting up an organisational development process to improve the ministry's work in the field of social security and preparedness, among other things. in view of the challenges identified in previous supervisory review, on the basis of an internal report of the Ministry of Justice and Defence from 2012 onwards and on its own experience. The Progress Party refers to the reorganisation of the Ministry of Justice and Security from 1 January 2015 with a crisis management, preparedness and security department and a department dealing with prevention security and analysis. These are measures such as: shall reply to the observations made in the Health Authority’s report. I find it reassuring that this very area has now been taken into account and resolved by the Council of State Anundsen, as there is a prerequisite for good cooperation between important departments to deal with security and emergency issues. This was also confirmed by police director Odd Reidar Hoplegård, where he initially spoke at the hearing: ‘Changes in the Ministry’s internal organisation of social security and preparedness have resulted in simpler governance and a more holistic management of this important social area.’ The current government has changed previous practice so that all supervisory reports on social security and preparedness work in the various departments are presented to the government for discussion. In addition, separate government emergency meetings are held and frequent meetings are held in the Government Security Committee. I also refer to the State Council of Anders Anundsen said during the hearing that: ‘the government is anchoring all these supervision in the government as such, both when the supervisory reports are available and when the follow-up is completed, so that the government is aware of what has happened and has not taken action. There is an important strength for the ability of the Ministry of Justice and Security to influence the work of civil society security and preparedness in other departments.’ This is also important to give legitimacy to the effective supervision of DSB as a directorate of a department in other departments, as the Director of DSB also pointed out during the hearing. The progress batch has also noted that DSB has been more involved in the follow-up work than before, cf. DSB Director Jon A. Lea said: «The DSB is now also given a greater role in the follow-up to the supervision of the individual departments.» With regard to the management and follow-up of the county councillors, the Progress Party agrees with the Riksrevision that there should be better consistency between the governance signals from the central authorities and the resources made available for the emergency work of the county councillors. I also refer to DSB Director Jon A. Lea's posts during the hearing where he said that: ‘The Ministry should give greater priority to the efforts and follow-up of the county council members and considers that there is a lack of consistency between professional expectations, increasing portfolios of tasks and the financial framework allocated to the county council members’. I refer here to the State of Sogn and Fjordane, Anne Karin Hamre, said during the hearing that ‘the management has improved in recent years, but resources are a bigger problem than lack of control’. The party of progress assumes that the government will follow this up and refer to the State Council of Anders Anundsen at the hearing that a ‘new State Instructions to clarify the responsibilities of state officials. It, combined with the project Better governance of the State, where one will go through the portfolio of tasks and funding, is intended to contribute to addressing some of the challenges that the county councillors correctly point to.» The Progress Party will also highlight the development of new guidance for the work of local authorities on social security in order to make the social security work of the counties more holistic and systematic and will at the same time refer to the Director Lea of the DSB, who said about the good work being done by the counties towards the municipalities today. The report of the National Audit Office and the Health Inspectorate report show that the governance dialogue between the Ministry of Justice and Security and the DSB and the Directorate of Police is deficient. I would like to point out here that during the hearing, DSB said that the governance dialogue between the Ministry of Justice and the DSB had at times been strenuous, but that it is much better today, and that the dialogue with the current Council of State is good. Similarly, police director Humlegård commented on this during the hearing, and I quote from his comment: ‘The target structure has been simplified, and changes have also been made in the department, reduced from three departments to two, so that we are now dealing with the police department, with which we have an excellent dialogue.’ The organisation of the Prime Minister's office has been taken up by the Committee, although the Riksrevision report does not concern the government. The Progress Party refers to the fact that the emergency structure of the SMK does not have a decisive role in crisis management and does not change the decision-making structure established. The Ministry of Justice and Defence is the Permanent Ministry of Management, unless a different Ministry of Management is appointed. The crisis support unit of the Ministry of Justice and Defence shall support the Ministry of leadership and the Council of Crisis in their work. The crisis support unit also employs the civil situation centre, which cooperates closely with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs operational centre and the situation centre of the Ministry of Defence/Defence. Following the accession of the new government, a number of measures have been implemented to improve social security and preparedness in our country, and together with the measures implemented by the former government, more than 1000 different measures have been registered. There won't be enough time to mention all of this here, but I just refer to the selected actions that were mentioned earlier by the representative Tetzschner. As I said at the outset, the Riksrevision has given the impression that the preparedness is no better today than it was after 22 July 2011. So we have to ask ourselves, is that true? In the light of the hearing, I would argue that there is no basis for the far-reaching conclusion reached by the Riksrevision. The Riksrevision has given many good impressions to the Stortinget about things that one should continue to work with, and I have great confidence that the Minister of Justice will take care of this in the future. However, the main impression today must be that preparedness is better today than it was on 22 July 2011. This has also been confirmed by statements by Director Lea of the DSB and police director Humlegård, and not least by Minister of Justice Anders Anundsen, who confirmed the statements made by Lea and Humlegård on this point. We are so absolutely on the right track in this important work. But some remain, and we will probably never be completely finished either, because changing times require constant changes in strategies and emergency procedures after the current situations at all times. This is such an important matter that social security and preparedness should be discussed in the full range of the Storting, both in the light of the findings of the studies carried out by the Health and National Audit Office, and in the light of the updates we have now received through the Committee's consultation on the matter. The Progress Party here points out that State Council Anders Anundsen announced during the hearing that the government intends to present a new report on social security during 2016. This is met by the Progress Party, so that the Storting can just discuss the preparedness and security work in an overall context. Based on the examination of this case, the Advance Party considers that it is necessary that the notification clarify the use of concepts in order to ensure a common sense of reality in the emergency units. Furthermore, the Communication should also address management, culture and attitudes, i.e. operational management. In addition, the notification should discuss how the oversight of departments and underlying agencies can contribute to strengthening preparedness. The relationship between the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness and the County and Municipalities should also be mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2244	The independent Commission, the Gjørv Commission, appointed by the government of Stoltenberg in August 2011, was commissioned to review and draw lessons from the attack on the government quarter and the massacre on Utøya on 22 July 2011. The Commission’s conclusions set out five assumptions as key reasons for the failure of this fateful day. Among other things, it is mentioned that the ability to recognise risks and take lessons from practice was too small, the ability to coordinate and interact has been inadequate, management's ability and willingness to clarify responsibilities, establish goals and take action to achieve results has been inadequate. The National Audit Office’s survey, based on the questions of what we have learned, and what has been improved by general preparedness and social security since 22 July 2011, will therefore be followed up by key issues relating to the evaluation of 22 July. These are two questions about the very basis for people's sense of security, and what kind of expectations the individual can have for the big community when terrorist attacks or other similar disasters occur. The study has focused on the extent to which the Ministry of Justice and Security and the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness take effective care of their responsibilities for the work in this area and not least in accordance with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. In particular, it was chosen to focus on a selection of coordination instruments, including the monitoring of departments, the learning of events and exercises and the management of the emergency response forces for the period 22 July 2011 to November 2014. In addition, the Health Authority report, which was delivered in April 2014, is a central part of the basis for the report of the Riksrevision. The National Audit Office’s report shows that serious weaknesses in the Ministry of Justice’s coordination and governance weaken the work on social security and preparedness in general. Three ministries, including the Ministry of Justice, have little followed up on post-supervisory recommendations, limited learning of exercises and events, and weak management and follow-up of county emergency services. This, in the view of the Christian People's Party, is a serious sentence on the central aspects of the security of preparedness and society in our society. No measurable improvements have been made in key areas that were perceived as the main cause of the failure on 22 July. This is serious. The interpretation of the conclusions of the study has revealed different views on the main findings of the Riksrevision. Is this to be seen as a description of a deterioration in overall preparedness and social security during the period, or is it a description of a part of the preparedness? While a central part is appropriate, it is not a description that provides a basis for drawing conclusions on the whole. The receipt of the report by the various parties involved has been clearly characterised by differing views on how the report should be read and understood. It is especially when a central actor in the overall emergency response work, DSB, by Director Lea, believes that: ‘The conclusion of the Court of Auditors creates a false impression of the status of the Norwegian preparedness. I cannot see how the Riksrevision has come to its conclusion on the basis of this report.’ So it's going to be added that the same person also expressed that ‘The Court of Auditors has carried out a good review of important parts of the coordination responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. In many areas, there is much to learn.’ Nevertheless, there is an impression that an important and central directorate with a high level of responsibility for the daily preparedness in Norway has chosen to distance itself from the criticisms of the Riksrevision and its conclusions. In particular, the director of the DSB makes such a strong criticism of the work of the National Audit Office. Here, in our view, DSB should have taken a more humble and learning attitude than what one experienced during the hearing. The Council of State also did not share DSB’s assessments as it appeared during the hearing, although his opinions in the reply to the Riksrevision could be perceived in a slightly different way. The main impression of the hearing is that the Council of State shares the Riksrevision’s conclusions that during the Riksrevision period, there were serious weaknesses in the use of the coordination instruments, and that the division of roles and responsibilities between the directorate and the ministry in some areas appeared unclear, which weakens efficiency and reduces the quality of social security work, and that is what is serious in the matter. It seems strange that the reality of the functioning of coordination, as shown in the Riksrevision report, is so different between the department and the directorate, and it is critical that this was not resolved at an earlier time. According to the Christian People's Party's assessment of the report and the hearing, there are good reasons to say that the dialogue between the ministry and the DSB, which had been experienced in the past, was strenuous until about a year ago. One year ago, from the DSB side, it is now perceived as good by both parties. There is also no basis for claiming that today there seem to be different perceptions of communication between the DSB and the ministry. Some of the main findings of the Gjørv Commission were that what went wrong on 22 July 2011 was largely a lack of coordination as well as a lack of ability to learn from events and exercises. Coordination we know is challenging in a number of areas of society. Working across departments and sectors that initially have close shoots between businesses requires practice and conscious attitudes about when and how to cooperate. At the same time, we know that good coordination is crucial when crises arise. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, therefore, the criticism of the preparedness work becomes serious when it is concluded from the Riksrevision that the Ministry has not ensured that the sector as a whole has targeted and effective preparedness work, not a sufficient overview of the status and state of the civil sector social security work and a lack of overview of exercise activities based on ministry reporting. The Ministry of Justice was particularly hard hit on 22 July 2011. Therefore, understanding must be shown that in such circumstances, one had limited capacity in the early days. It was recognised, both in the report of the State Health Authority, from the National Audit Office and in the hearing, that there were clear challenges in the Ministry of Justice and in the coordination of underlying agencies. In particular, there is a need to highlight the conflicts of competence between the two departments, the rescue and preparedness department and the police department. There is reason to believe that this conflict had a negative impact on the possibilities for functional and good coordination of preparedness work in the Ministry of Justice and the underlying agencies. Yet, having such a paralysing conflict over time is unacceptable, and there is a clear political responsibility on its part at all times to resolve that kind of conflict. The conflict was recognised by all the Councils during the hearing and described as a challenging and demanding situation with which everyone was working to find a solution. At the same time, we must be able to state that, despite that recognition, the problems in this area persisted even after the government change in the autumn of 2013. That is why it is critical, as we see it, that former State Council Faremo, which was responsible for political affairs during this period, did not take the necessary steps to resolve this conflict. It must be said that, during the hearing, former State Council Faremo did not contribute in a particularly constructive manner to informing the matter. There was little willingness for self-recognition, little willingness to point out what could have been done differently, and it's in itself very worrying."For the Committee, for the Biggest and for all those who are going to contribute to creating security in society, it's absolutely essential that we learn. Then we have to have experience on the table, achievement has to be sidelined, and it has to be recognised what are weaknesses in the system. Then first we can learn, then we can make improvements. It is unfortunate and critical from our point of view that the State Council of Faremo did not make an adequate and constructive contribution to informing the matter. We're not looking for scapegoats, but we're looking for improvement points, learning points, so that the safety of our inhabitants is as good as possible. It was therefore necessary for the present State Council Anundsen to address this devastating conflict in order to resolve it. By acquiring external competences and new organisational approaches, things may indicate that the conflict is now being resolved and that an important cause of lack of coordination and coordination is no longer existing in the same way as in the past. That work is to be done by the Council of State Anundsen. In addition to this, a number of new measures have been launched to strengthen preparedness work, many of which were initiated by the Councils of State in the Red-Green Government and continued and further developed by the Council of State Anundsen. It is worth noting that after 22 July 2011, there has been a continuous effort to improve preparedness in many areas. The hearing has shown that one is well underway in several of these areas, but there are still weaknesses in several of the areas identified by the Riksrevision. One of the areas that appeared to be demanding is the lack of development of the target and performance management system. The control parameters are designed to a small extent as performance requirements. Instead, governance is based on requirements to carry out specific activities. Instead of telling what qualitative results to achieve, a previous expectation was expressed by the Ministry of Justice of the DSB of the activities to be carried out and their number. Individual activities became a measure in themselves, moving attention away from target and result attainment to only the quantifiable sizes. The report by the State Health Authority assesses the target and results system in the Ministry of Justice as poorly developed, as formulated. The objectives, as they have worked up to now, bear the mark of being visionary or theoretical and lack a design that can make them sufficiently concrete and measurable, with qualitative content and not just a quantification of activities. It is not difficult to see this issue in the light of the previously mentioned conflict between the central departments responsible for preparedness and social security in the Ministry of Justice. When the department does not have a unified and coherent strategy, the objectives and management signals will appear to be diffuse. To map the target achievement in the field of emergency response, we understand that we are demanding. At the same time, it may also be that where there are no clear objectives, it will be difficult to get two departments to work in the same direction. A clearly operationalised target structure will be a central mechanism for alleviating disagreement between the two departments of the Ministry of Justice. In addition, it would guide what is expected in the underlying emergency chain departments. It is therefore interesting that the Council of State, Anundsen, initiated a work that had just planned to review the whole target structure across the justice and preparedness sectors, including social security and preparedness, where all the departments were involved. The Council of State said, as I understood it – perhaps we can get it confirmed by the Council of State even later today – during the hearing that from the current year a completely new and different common target structure has been put in place. In this area, there must be a target system that is clear and concrete, but that is dynamic at the same time, in order to adapt to the reality that we know is constantly changing in the field of preparedness. The National Audit Office’s report underlines the importance of the State as a driving force and coordinating body for social and security work at regional and local level. At the same time, the National Audit Office’s study shows a mismatch between the professional expectations and the management signals given by DSB, in conjunction with the resource frameworks made available by the Ministry of Justice. From 2003 to 2013, the number of annual works has been reduced by 30 p.m., from 4,5 annual works to 3,2 annual works at each post. At the same time, where it is emphasised that the mandate of county officials contains few measurable performance requirements, there is limited opportunity to assess the contribution of county officials to achieving the objectives in the field of preparedness. Inadequate coordination at regional level creates a risk of a reduction in national enforcement capacity if the serious events occur. It is therefore positive that the Minister of Justice informed during the hearing that action has been taken to strengthen this work, under the authority of the county council. There is no doubt that this important part of social security and preparedness work should also be given more resources in the future, not just new tasks. The police reform, with the disaggregation of new regions not following the borders, will further create challenges for future coordination and coordination of county response tasks, which will probably require further new resources. A significant part of the improvement work in the field of preparedness and safety is the implementation and follow-up of supervision. While previous practice has been that the supervision of each department has been a matter for the department in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, this is now being presented to the government for discussion. No deviations are closed until a breach of requirements has been corrected. This is good. It is also positive that supervision will now be public. It provides insight into what has been done and what is still waiting for action. The National Audit Office criticises the lack of follow-up and evaluation of exercises and events. It is positive that a new framework for the evaluation of this type of activity is now being set up, and there is reason to respond to the outcome of this work and what it may mean for the strengthening of preparedness. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are concerned about the serious findings pointed out by the National Audit Office in its report. These are key aspects of preparedness that require maximum attention in the future. At the same time, it is also necessary to point out that the report is not a phase for the whole emergency situation. There is an investigation which has produced serious deficiencies on important aspects, but nevertheless within a defined area of emergency response. There has been ongoing work on improving preparedness in several areas since 22 July 2011. The hearing has shown that one is well-informed in some areas, but still weak in key areas. In summary, it seems that a new approach has been taken to the preparedness work following the government change in autumn 2013 in several areas, among others. a better dialogue between the Department and the DSB, organisational action that has helped to resolve the conflict in the Ministry of Justice, to open up and strengthen the follow-up of supervision and a clearer and more concrete target structure for the entire preparedness process. There is still a lack of improvement in the former Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. Here we expect that there will be a close follow-up in the continuation. When the Riksrevision's report was presented, National Auditor Per-Kristian Foss stated that this is the most serious criticism that they – i.e. the Riksrevision – have made as long as Foss has been a national auditor. The most serious one in my time, said Foss. He went on to say: ‘After the Gjørv Commission presented its proposals for improvements in the autumn of 2011, we see no significant improvement capacity in the department.’ This is a serious statement. It is the right of the Committee and it is the duty of the Committee to take this seriously. That is why the Christian People's Party has taken seriously and gone into the report thoroughly. We have carefully assessed the consultation and the findings that have been made. I have to say that I have reacted strongly to the picture the case rapporteur is trying to draw, and I have to stay a little bit by this, because in the Christian People's Party we are very strongly responding to the way this matter has been handled by the rapporteur, and I would like to elaborate on this. The President-in-Office of the Council said to the press on 17 June, that is to say yesterday, that the government parties and, in part, the Christian People's Party do not take the Riksrevision report seriously. This is directly wrong. It's a misinformation and a diversion, as I see it. That's exactly what we're doing, we're taking the report seriously, the deepest seriousness. That is why we address a factual and, in our opinion, justified system criticism in key areas addressed in the report, within the period covered by the report. The report deals with a period that two thirds of the time was governed by the red-green ones. Then it is quite natural for criticism to be addressed to a certain degree. We have been strict about the facts and what the report is about, what emerged during the hearing, and not least what period the report deals with, and when the data collection started and ended. So it's part of the story, as I've said earlier in my post, that the Council of State, Faremo, during the hearing, contributed in a slightly constructive way to informing the matter. It helps from our side to reinforce our criticism. The chairperson of the Committee, Mr Kolberg, stated during the hearing: ‘no one who can claim that National Auditor Per-Christian Foss is anyone in such a context as this’. [[...]] And on the other hand, ‘There is every reason for the Committee and the Storting to attach about not a hundred percent of the trust, so at least a great deal of attention to what he says.’ Then it is incomprehensible that the same Kolberg is attacking the Christian People's Party to correct a criticism that addresses exactly what the Riksrevision has been studying, and that deals with the limited period of time to which the Riksrevision has dealt. It is a fact that the red-green – and Faremo in particular – must bear a constitutional responsibility for the findings that have been revealed. It wasn't done enough to clean up in critical circumstances. The work related to safety and preparedness after 22 July has not been properly followed up in several fields. It is then the right and duty of the Committee to make such reference. It seems that the case rapporteur in this case is working on the assumption that attack is the best defence. That doesn't make sense. This theme is too important for that. It's too important and serious for us to be able to assign each other intentions, yes, wrong intentions, in an attempt to turn away from responsibility. It shouldn't be like that. That is why I have to say that in this case I am disappointed with the rapporteur's handling of this matter in the media. It does not serve the case, and in my opinion it weakens the credibility of the committee. I hope that we can now relate to the facts in the future. From the Christian People's Party, this is not primarily about a pursuit of scapegoats. It's never been our main thing. If we look at it historically, we're all more or less in the same boat, and at different times have contributed differently to where we are today. We all have to take on that responsibility. The National Audit Office has told us that there are important aspects to the preparedness process that require follow-up and improvement. That's what becomes our common central task in the future to get in place. The work on strengthening social security and preparedness is about something as central and fundamental as the people's sense of security. It will and must also be a continuous work. To quote the State Council Anundsen during the hearing: ‘It is a work that will continue. After all, the purpose of both supervisory rounds and audit reports is to find improvement points, and that is to find ways in which we need to better solve these matters.’ The Christian People's Party is therefore, together with the other parties, behind the joint proposal to ask the government to present a big message on social security and preparedness by the end of 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2330	The National Audit Office’s report deals with a limited part of the emergency situation in Norway. The report is not an exhaustive review of the emergency situation, but is limited to the Ministry of Justice and Security in the field of social security and preparedness. The Ministry of Justice and Defence is entrusted with a coordinating role in the area of preparedness and the following key areas are addressed in the report: Serious weaknesses in the exercise of coordination responsibilities weaken societal security and preparedness. There are weaknesses in the management and follow-up of the DSB by the Ministry of Justice and Security. The DSB’s activity management contributes to a limited extent to good target and performance. That is the basis on which the Committee has examined this matter. The aim of the National Audit Office’s investigation has been to identify the extent to which the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the DSB are responsible for the work on social security and preparedness in accordance with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. According to standard audit practice, the conclusion of the National Audit Office is based on a review of management documents and other written material as well as some interviews. The conclusions are based on this work and not on how the preparedness would actually work on a real event. The last thing I want to underline is as strongly as I can. Therefore, the Riksrevision report cannot be used as a phase in the real situation, but must be seen as a report that points to possible weaknesses within a limited part of the emergency area. The attitude is marked by a lack of time for the Committee, but – I would say very strongly – a good job has been done within the time available to us in terms of what is important to discuss in a new big message. Despite the strong words that I have noticed now have come from speakers in front of me here in the pulpit today, there is agreement and a good basis for the Council of State for the main points that should be included in a new big message. The work done here is, in my opinion, such that it will facilitate the work of the Council of State to reconcile the forces in order to improve real preparedness in the future. The centre part has focused on what is most important to learn from and improve in the future. Therefore, we have not seen it as important to allocate blame and responsibility between previous and present state councils. Our remarks make what remains visible, almost four years after the terrorist attack, has not been improved, namely the management culture. It is essential for all preparedness organisations. The new name of the Ministry of Justice does not solve this challenge. Obviously, everyone agrees on that. It's a bit deeper, it's a long-term job to practice new management, as we described here as "operational management". It must be learned over time through practice and training and with leaders who understand its content. When the report arrived, it appeared that social security and preparedness are fundamental and involve most sectors of society. There is also considerable trust between the population and the authorities. We in the Centre Party have noted that everyone who participated in the oral hearing of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs agrees that the Riksrevision has provided a good review of important parts of the coordination responsibility to the Ministry of Justice and Defence. We believe that this is a good foundation for further work, while some disagree with the conclusions of the National Audit Office in some areas. Riksrevisor Per-Kristian Foss is usually central to presenting the Riksrevision's work. On the same day as the report was presented, and in the next few days, a picture was taken that the findings of the report were exceptional, which was the following opinion of National Auditor Per-Kristian Foss in the evening post 21 May both contributed to and provided the basis for: ‘The report on the work of the Ministry of Justice and Security in the field of social security and preparedness is one of the most serious criticisms ever made by the National Audit Office against a department.’ - Sometimes it's been delivered to a department! It was the atmosphere that was created when the committee chose to deal with it – out of the ordinary way – in an urgent manner. The centre party took this seriously and was involved in an urgent procedure, seams whether we thought the committee should deal with it more thoroughly until the autumn, after we had a better understanding of the urgent need after the oral hearing. One had to have, on the basis of such a conclusion and such opinions, a consultation to get an overview of it, so that the state would not persist without any immediate action being taken. What has then been shown is that we have had a media discussion about this. I would like to draw up an article that has made a great impression on me and also on several members of the Committee. It was an article that was printed in Today’s Business on 6 June 2015, called ‘Never prepared?’. That article, in my opinion, gives a good insight into what is required to deal with a serious and inconceivable incident with many implicated. The article makes visible objections to the fact that centralisation and greater structures in the field of emergency, which must be said to take place in Norway, are the best way to organise preparedness and ensure the best possible social security. The theme of this article is social security and preparedness and the great fire at Lærdalsøri in Lærdal municipality 18 and 19 January 2014. The article becomes visible, inter alia: how essential it is for individuals on site to take responsibility and act in an unbridled and unexpected situation with the resources that are, and can be made, available locally. From the article I quote: «Tom Hetland recalls the German military theorist Carl von Clausewitz’s theory that even the best-imagined battle plan collapses at first contact with the enemy. What is needed, then, are capable, independent, and able to act under-instruct.’ And on the other hand, ‘The ongoing reform work in the field of social security in particular, and public organisation in particular, is strangely unaffected by such experience. In areas by region — including police, fire protection or municipal structure — centralisation and specialisation are being pursued, while the value of local presence and laymen’s efforts are being reduced.’ It's a pleasure that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party express full agreement with what Hetland here says. That is why everyone, with the exception of the Greens, says that: ‘important lessons learned from what DSB mentions as major events in recent years have shown that local preparedness for the use of available resources requires competent, independent and capable officials who are able to improvise under unbridled and demanding working conditions’. Commentary Tom Hetland in Stavanger Aftenblad is quoted later in the same article on the development of more and more formal requirements and requirements from DSB to provide a basis for supervision and reporting from directorate to department and politicians: ‘New reporting regimes that the National Audit Office is now calling for are most likely a way for policy-makers and administrative leaders to demonstrate their power of action. The result may be the opposite, with less readiness because too much energy is going to follow the rules.’ The audit firm PwC carried out an independent evaluation of the major fires at the request of the State Council and Anders Anundsen. That's what it says. ‘the crews had put down an effort far beyond what anyone can expect, and it is not possible to say that the fires had had a better outcome with another organisation’. However, the DSB by its department director, Anne Rygh Pedersen, is quoted in the following article in Today’s Business on 6 June: ‘We believe that the outcome could probably be different if the effort had been better organised at an earlier time in the course of the fire’. The former PST chief and the present rickshaws are quoted as follows: ‘They staggered the fire before it entered the protected area properly, was a masterful effort. One must not make ideal demands that can take the motivation of people who have really been heroes.’ I'm taking this with me, because this is the practical implementation of the preparedness work, where DSB has a very central role. These quotes from the article in Today's Business June 6 show some of the DSB's problems with its management culture. DSB's performance in Lærdal, in Flatanger and on Frøya in winter 2014 has probably provoked the local heroes, who did a fantastic job. This has to be changed. As far as constitutional responsibility is concerned, the Committee has a special responsibility to keep an eye on it and the Central Party agrees that the Ministry of Justice and Defence has a coordinating responsibility, as the Council of State stated during the hearing. However, the consultation shows a need for clearer, coherent conceptual practices that make it more visible where the responsibility for the various tasks of performing and coordinating response functions remains at all times. In all preparedness work, as in other important work, common understanding of reality is essential. Any democratic strategy must be based on a common sense of reality. The central party believes that the handling of the case shows that there is different understanding of reality in the area of preparedness and social security. Conceptual use, responsibilities and objectives differ in different bodies. This is a major obstacle to interaction. The consultation has shown that status in terms of use, responsibilities, objectives and interaction is not sufficient. The central party is of the opinion that the ministry should give priority to this work in order to clarify key concepts and objectives. We would also point out that the committee's examination of the case shows that there has developed a culture in the emergency units where the purpose of supervision is – and I would stress this – that the papers are in order. It has developed a culture where the point is far too much that the papers are in order. Supervision is less indicative of the consequences of errors that have been identified. This may mean that those subject to supervision are more concerned with the design of action plans, strategy papers, the formulation of targets and other plans. This is something that has developed almost as a farsot in the entire Norwegian community, and that makes the skilled professionals who are put to do a job more concerned that the papers should be in order than that it should work in practice. That's an important part of what we're dealing with today. Prime Minister Stoltenberg presented the matter to Stortinget on 28 August 2012 and it was very important after the terrible terrorist act. I have to repeat what the Prime Minister said at the time, because it is so pointed out and so essential that here one must use Willoch's words: repetition, repetition, repetition. The quotation is as follows: ‘The least demanding is to grant more money, to adopt plans. Decide on reorganisations. The most important job is bigger. It's about leadership. strengthening of attitudes; Change in crops related to preparedness. Understanding dangers in a safe society. The responsibility for this lies with the leaders at all levels. With the Prime Minister and the Council of State, the administrative management of the departments, in each department and establishment, in each department and local office.» The Prime Minister could also say: with each deposit representative. The Labour Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left believe that the Riksrevision report shows that this work has not been carried out with sufficient force. This is underlined by the fact that during the hearing, communication between the Department and the DSB had improved only in the last six months, despite the majority comment of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre Party in Chapter 3.8.1 Cultural and management challenges of the Innst. 210 S for 2012-2013 from the Control and Constitutional Committee. That's where the concept of mission-based management came into play. It states that mission-based management is necessary ‘to ensure initiative, creativity, ownership of work, sense of responsibility and thus a collective commitment’. These are principles that apply to medical services, ambulances, fire and rescue, police, local hospitals — all those units that are incredibly important to operate in a crisis situation. It is for all these preparedness organisations that they need decentralised management that can realise the intention of the overall level. Here, there has to be a constant interaction between ground-based professionals and what is the overall management – developing a culture and learning from what works in practice. It is gratifying that the Workers' Party and the Centre agree that ‘when the Riksaudition points out a lack of coordination, poor communication and weak business management, this shows that the Ministry of Justice and Defence must more closely follow the previous decision of the Storting.’ In the Central Party, we also have the view that it has developed over time a system of government on target management. This, combined with different concepts and different understandings of reality, hampers preparedness. The way target management is implemented, combined with different concepts and different understandings of reality, is a major problem. As many have experienced, there have been internal challenges in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. It's now fixed, as far as we've been informed. It's reassuring. It is sad that it was going on for so long. Our assessment from the Center Party is that some of the reasons why it is just different are content in terms and different senses of reality. It is central to clarify, thus eliminating such internal conflicts as have been pointed out. I have rarely experienced such strong statements from the main figure of the Workers' Party, and from the Right and Christian People's Party on the other hand, which have come into this discussion. I'm quite surprised at such a strong language usage. But it shows that there is a different understanding of what the Riksrevision has pointed out, and the associated consequences. For the Central Party, it is of course important to say that the Riksrevision has pointed out serious findings. The fact that the Right Party and the Advance Party are not involved in it is, in my opinion, strong, because it is the whole discussion that we are going into here today. However, if one chooses to set it aside, there is a consensus about what is central to the upcoming big-time message. It says that one has to look at this as a whole; one has to discuss the security and preparedness work as a whole. There's a lot of stuff going on. Food safety is also included, and it was quite worrying that the DSB manager could not clarify what was the reality in that area – whether food safety went up or down. It makes me insecure on that management. It is part of what the Council of State has to deal with, because new crises have a completely different course than previous rehearsed and trained crises. Furthermore, it is important to clarify the use of concepts and the common sense of reality and to discuss management, culture and attitudes, where operational management has finally become the focus. It's going to be very exciting to see to what extent and in what way the Council of State will follow it up when we know that, for example. within the Defence Department, operational management is the defence manager’s fundamental view of management. Finally, there is supervision between departments and underlying agencies, where the real functioning is central — not just supervision of regulations and regulations and permes. Finally, one must mention the interaction between DSB and statesmen. There is a reasonable consensus here that the role of the county officials in the preparedness work must be strengthened. It is largely an economic and organisational issue. So this is a matter which the Council of State should go into carefully. Good management, I say, is timeless. There are several people who have said that here things will happen that make you have to change it. Yes, it will, but good management is timeless, while one must get to systematic learning over several years. With what is outlined here, it is possible to engage professionals, empower professionals, provide the opportunity to remove much unnecessary paper plans. It is possible, in my opinion, to increase the level of preparedness, and it is possible to make the individual responsible in line with the objectives of management, thereby becoming an interaction that provides the basis for a completely different and good preparedness in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2455	Normally we tend to start by thanking the case rapporteur, but I have some critical comments on the case rapporteur that I am going to get to, so it is possible that I can thank the case rapporteur for the next round, when he may have clarified the points I have. There may then be a basis for thanking the rapporteur for the work he has done on this matter. The main task of the State is to ensure the safety of its citizens. That's what's our most important task. The most important task of politicians is to ensure the safety of citizens. On this point, in several areas, terrorist acts failed on 22 July 2011. It became obvious that preparedness was not good enough to deal with such events – obviously. We politicians failed; the state of Norway failed. The question many have asked is whether we have learned, and whether preparedness has actually improved. Unfortunately, the answer to that is not a loud and unambiguous yes. We should have managed to say yes, but we cannot do that with full conviction. The National Audit Office’s investigation and the Health Authority’s report indicate that there were clearly still serious deficiencies in the period after 22 July 2011 until November 2014, which is the period covered by the National Audit Office’s investigation. It's pretty shocking. One thing is that we were not prepared July 22, 2011. Something quite different is whether we're not prepared for July 22, 2015. Four years – a lot should have been done in four years, a lot could have been done in four years, and a lot is still unrealized. I also find it very alarming that the promises that everything that could be done to ensure a completely different and better preparedness are clearly not kept. It's serious, and it's sad. We remember all the speeches that were given, the promises that were given, the total political Norway that would have improved, and the commitment of the Stoltenberg government to follow up Stoltenberg's own speeches. They didn't. Unfortunately, they did not do enough work, nor after 22 July. And it must be said, even though it is certainly difficult for the workers' party representatives and the case rapporteur and the committee leader from the Workers' Party to hear it. That must be said, because that is what the Health Inspectorate's report says in clear text, and that is also what is laid down in much of the Riksrevision's report. In my view, it is quite clear and obvious that the responsibility for most of the serious weaknesses revealed in the Riksrevision investigation must be attributed to the previous government in general and to the Council of State Grete Faremo in particular — in particular four points: Weaknesses in the exercise of the responsibility for coordination in the field of preparedness and social security have been identified. Several departments, including the Ministry of Justice and Defence, have little or no follow-up to previous supervisory recommendations. The administration and follow-up of emergency services by the Ministry of Justice and Security is not satisfactory. There are, or have been, major weaknesses in the management and follow-up of the DSB by the Ministry of Justice and Security, and DSB’s business management contributes little to achieving good objectives and results. I have to say here, if anyone remembers the child asylum debate, that it was not that the Christian People's Party and the Left stood here and commended the Minister of Justice. I feel that at least we have some independence when we can both criticise the Minister of Justice when necessary, and when we can criticise the outgoing government and its work. I feel that we do not have that connection party politically to either one or the other government to the extent that we have to stand and defend them, so I feel that the case rapporteur has done during this process. What I find most eye-catching is the self-satisfaction that could be perceived by former Minister of Justice and Defence Grete Faremo, and how she acted at the Committee hearing on Saturday 6 June. There was no trace of self-criticism. Despite the facts that were revealed in the National Audit Office's report, and which she could say she agreed to, she took no self-criticism. As indicated in the minutes of the hearing, I challenged Faremo eight times in all, whether there was any reason to take self-criticism for something – for something – during her entire management time – eight attempts. There was no hint at anything like that in her answer – nothing at all. It's amazing. We got politicians demonstrating at their worst when they don't answer questions. It's very little trusting. I'd say it's directly disappointing. It must be said that I have put no fingers between myself when I have criticized the current Council of State, but I must also say that I have noticed that it has been a clear change of pace to track after this government took over – after the government change – and it is a change of pace to track after the current Council of State has taken over the Department. Although we do not have the full picture, and we do not have insight into the work that is being done from day to day, at least it is an impression that has been attached after the hearing. I think the present Council of State deserves to be commended for that. A number of measures have now been implemented during the Committee’s consultation. For example, the dialogue with DSB has gone from effort under the previous government to good. This was also a special view. Former Minister of Justice and Defence Grete Faremo said that the dialogue with the DSB was good and constructive. The DSB manager himself said that the dialogue was not good, but strenuous. I don't know in which world these are synonyms. Then you speak two completely different languages. So the current Minister of Justice and the head of emergency speak completely different languages in terms of the kind of dialogue they have. It can't be good management when the DSB manager says he took this up with Grete Faremo without any significant improvement. A number of actions have now been implemented, and the DSB is now having good dialogue with the Ministry of Justice and with the current head of government. It is clear that when I challenged him on this, it is not possible to attribute it just to the fact that there was a government change, and that there was a new person in that position. Then you have to give commendation to the Minister of Justice for that. The Minister of Justice has, among other things: helped resolve the conflict between the police department and the emergency department. It is now said to be seemingly non-existent, unlike under the previous government, where the conflict has been described as a contributing cause for insufficient social security and preparedness. This was known both by former Minister of Justice Storberget and by former Minister of Justice Faremo – both knew it. None of them solved it. Then you've expressed that you've almost let time work. Some people have talked about time. We hear Lundtigen's quotations from Stoltenberg's speech about taking clear leadership, not just in an unobligatory way giving more money. The speech that Lundtigen quoted from, I'm just referring to. It's not enough just to make rounds and papers. You have to take clear leadership. It was known that in one’s own department, which is the head of the department, there is a conflict between two departments that contributes to the inability to have operational and adequate social security and preparedness. And then you don't take the leadership you're going to take. It is good that the current Minister of Justice has taken that leadership, and especially if it is true that the conflict is now non-existent, and it also contributes to our having social security and preparedness improved by that work. It's good that more is done. But there is reason to remain concerned about whether the preparedness is good enough and optimal. It's a small line in the bill for the Minister of Justice that it wasn't exactly a genius to dismiss the entire Riksaudition report, as the Council of State apparently did in its letter to the Riksaudition, which is contained in the Riksaudition report. In any case, for us who read it, it might seem as if you were defecating absolutely everything. If I add the good side to it, I could say that it could at least be written in a different way. At least you could explain why you did it. In retrospect, the Minister of Justice has done this, both with the press release and in the hearing, and tried to explain that it believes that preparedness today is good enough, and that when the report was completed, or at least during the period examined, it was not, but this was not clear enough in the letter contained in the National Audit Office's report. This impression I feel that the Council of State has, fortunately, corrected. The Council of State also said during the hearing that he based the Riksrevision report, and that at least at the time of the inquiry, it was correct. Not only he and the Ministry of Justice, as he said, but also everyone who is under his leadership, also out to the extremes and preparedness, DSB, have to base the report as it was when it was written, and for the period it applies. So some things have clearly happened afterwards, but that's a back-up. I have also noticed the development in the rhetoric of the representatives of the Workers' Party as this case has developed. At the time of the submission of the National Audit Office, the following expressions were made: Jette Christensen to NTB: ‘I do not trust the Minister of Justice.’ And to the newspaper: ‘Why is Anundsen Minister of Justice?’ As the realities have sunk into the Workers' Party that the findings of the study and the identified deficiencies related to preparedness and social security are primarily related to the time of self-government, the pipe has received a completely different sound. This applies not least to the Health Authority report, which was completed with data collection in December 2013, i.e. only two months after the government change. The report has the following verdict on the Faremo and the Stoltenberg Government, because it is not just the Minister of Justice who is responsible for preparedness and justice policy. It is the head of government himself, especially as we know it – July 22nd – and not least the speeches that have been made about July 22nd in retrospect. The judgment can be summarised in some points. I'll take some: The Ministry had no compiled and systematised overview of the status in the various areas of social security. The Ministry had not followed up what they were going to do in order to clarify responsibilities and identify areas where there was a need for coordination. The Ministry had not provided an overview of the exercise activities based on reporting by the Ministry as they should. The Ministry had little regard for the systematic follow-up of major accidents and exceptional incidents in the sectors, including the exchange of experience and necessary improvement measures. There is a lack of information to the government on the state of social security and civil protection work. Initiatives to ensure contingency plans are organised across departments and overviews of department plans are not recorded. The plan describing actors at the strategic level, their roles and responsibilities, as well as alert procedures and interactions between them to daily and in the event of crises has not been laid down. - Among other things. The conclusion is fairly clear that there were serious shortcomings in the follow-up to the emergency response work in the Ministry of Justice and Defence at Grete Faremo. It's not possible to retort away from it. I see that the rapporteur and the chairman of the committee have tried in the media, but the responsibility must be placed and clarified. I see the committee chairman saying in several media that the Christian People's Party and the Left do not support the Riksrevision and criticise us for it. I wonder where the case rapporteur takes it from. I fully agree with what Mr Gruvan said from this chair, in general, in the whole speech, but especially in the criticism that was directed at the case-rapporteur at this point. We trust the Riksrevision. The Christian People's Party has said it, Left and I say it. We're basing their report. I think it is sad that the case rapporteur and the committee chairman use the press surfaces to make a false statement about the Christian People's Party and the Left. I have to say that I really know the committee leader as better than this. Then I hope it was a mistake and not a conscious one. If it was conscious, it is a pity that the committee chairman and the case rapporteur, when their own party on proper premises is attacked, misinformed about other parties. It's disappointing. Was it conscious, I would also say that I was right that this matter should have had another case rapporteur, who was more neutral, and not one who has his own party to defend to those degrees. I hope it was a mistake and that incorrect information about the Christian People's Party and the Left was not a deliberate manoeuvre to remove the focus from the failing preparedness work that was being done by its own government. This is not based on the confidence of the Control Committee, which I know the rapporteur and the chairman of the committee are otherwise very concerned. We gave the setting on Monday. After the vote here, and when you see our comments in their entirety, you'll see that of course we agree with that, but that's a remark we don't have in the incurrency. I believe that those who were at the committee meeting understand that there was some haste in the meeting of the committee to deliver it. In the event of an incubation, we are not in a majority opinion stating that the Ministry of Justice and Defence has been given clearer primary responsibility for social security and preparedness after 2011. We clearly agree with that, and the note also states that the Riksrevision study shows that serious weaknesses in the coordination and governance of the Ministry weaken the work on social security and preparedness. We agree with that, of course, as the whole of our comments also shows. I also see that the Riksrevision is here and perhaps already has noticed that the Committee – an overall committee as far as I remember – is asking the Riksrevision to look at the emergency work in a few years' time, so that the Storting has the full opportunity to follow closely and in detail the work that is being done now, so that we can check and verify whether today's Minister of Justice is actually following up on the things where the Minister of Justice has said in the hearing that he is on the ball. An important element in this matter is how government responds to criticism more generally. Unfortunately, it is almost without exception so that one goes into the defence position instead of recognising faults and defects and without any conditions do something about the defects and defects that have been pointed out. It is a prerequisite for improvement and learning that those who are the object of criticism meet the criticism with an open mind. It's not easy. We as politicians know all about that, but we also know that we learn the most by recognizing faults and shortcomings and actually doing something about it. It is for every reason permissible to object if there is cause for objecting. You should do that, and you have to do that if you really disagree. But at the same time, it is most often that we ourselves may not be the foremost ones to see, discover and do something with our own flaws and weaknesses. There's something about self-defense and self-intelligence. For this reason, in some cases administration should also be more appropriate to listen to and follow-up on supervisory reports and national audit reports, even if it is done — far on the way. Although there are things that indicate that considerable efforts have been made to ensure a better preparedness, I am concerned whether the preparedness is good enough and optimal. It's hard to say that you're absolutely sure that everything is in its best order. I hear the Minister of Justice says that a lot of good has been done since they took the department, and it is great that the Minister of Justice also assures us that the preparedness is operational and optimal, but it is nevertheless difficult to be absolutely sure that everything is in the best order. I therefore believe that it is imperative that the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Minister work specifically to improve preparedness and coordination throughout the sector. The Ministry of Justice itself has shown little improvement from health surveillance two to health surveillance three, and if there is one that has to go ahead with a good example, it is the Justice and Emergency Department itself. There is no reason to expect that preparedness will be improved if the department responsible for preparedness does not go ahead and show the way. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Justice and Security to ensure close follow-up to those departments which have not shown any improvement, while at the same time ensuring continuous improvement in their own departments. What emerged in supervision three is that there are three departments, i.e. the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, which have shown little or no improvement in the previous period, i.e. in red-green time. The Ministry of Fisheries and Food, together with the Ministry of Justice, can be said to be what might make Norway the most vulnerable if something hit us in particular in the three fields. Therefore, it is very important that the Minister of Justice is on the ball, both in terms of internal follow-up and follow-up of those departments that do not follow up on social security and preparedness work. A lot has to be done. By doing so, I believe that it is not enough to send signals, write rounds and guidelines, but that there must be an extremely clear management responsibility. So I agree with the words to Stoltenberg, as Lundtigen pointed out. The conclusions of the Riksrevision surveys just underline this. There is a need to take responsibility, governance and management – a very clear management. But unfortunately, even though the words came from the Stoltenberg government, the Stoltenberg government, the Storberg or Faremo did not take the clear lead in this. It is clear evidence of both the Gjørv Commission, the two supervision and supervision three of the Health Authority and the National Audit Office's report. Lundtigen quoted Jens Stoltenberg's speech about leadership. It was using big words about taking leadership and then actually taking that leadership when you have to take it. The current Council of State and his Department must ensure that what is done is actually implemented at all stages of the organisation, from the top of all departments to the ultimate stage of preparedness. Although we have all expressed an understanding that it was a difficult time after July 22, we sometimes hear in the scenes, in the context of the debates, actors who don't speak on the record, but who talk a little ‘at times’ that there are not all the signals coming from the top, which are actually being taken down in the system. It is a little alarming that this is not done, but you have to be very aware that this is the situation in some departments and in some departments around the department. Although the department is primarily responsible for management, it has not been given that all the signals and the written guidelines and circulars produced are followed up. That is why the Minister of Justice must pay particular attention to what is being said in the scenes. I am absolutely sure the Minister of Justice himself is aware of that. Therefore, clear management responsibilities mean more than sending signals, more than writing circulars, than making guidelines. Then you have to follow up, get feedback, check, check and verify that it has actually been done, that it has actually been implemented in all terms. The dialogue must therefore be clear, close and continuous, and the follow-up must continue to be repeated. Leadership in this field must be at its best, and the follow-up and implementation of social security and preparedness must be the first priority of any government. We failed on July 22, 2011. We can't afford to do that again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2564	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good work and the Committee for good cooperation in a matter which has been dealt with very quickly, but which has been very important. She builds on one, in my best opinion, a good and important report from the National Audit Office. It is a report that deals with a limited part of the preparedness in Norway, on which several speakers have spoken. He is about the management and coordination of a field, not about the operational one in the field, which several speakers have also spoken about, and which we – at least I – were clear about before the hearing. And he treats a limited period of time. The data collection ended well in November 2014, if I don't think completely wrong. But he's just as important anyway, within the framework of what they're actually investigating, and the report addresses questions that it's absolutely necessary and right that someone else, outside of those who themselves are controlling with it, go after it with even spaces. In serious terms, I and SV believe that the Riksrevision's criticism after the hearing seems to be right for both the previous and the current government during the period the report is about and takes care of. At the same time, the hearing at some points brought out the shades of that criticism. The meaning of hearings is, among other things, that one should produce shades. The hearing found that the sitting government has implemented a number of measures to improve the situation — including several concrete responses to criticism — before this report was presented. That's good. But in this case, I just have to stop and say something that I think some representatives are not entirely concerned about: the implementation of measures is not tantamount to the effectiveness of measures and the resolution of the problem. The national audit report and the hearings may include, inter alia: teaching us that there is no lack of action in recent years in this area, but the report demonstrates that not all measures have had an adequate impact. Whether the recent measures have had an effect or not will probably only show an event, but it may tell us something about a future report from the National Audit Office and learn something about it. It is also wise for the Committee to state in a note that it should be implemented. I would like to add that I think that several of the key actions appear to be wise, and my impression is that among the things that came up there were several important things that have been carried out, although I also have the impression that it is still a challenge to systematically prioritize preparedness and implemented enough in the Ministry of Justice and the Government, which was a challenge to get done in the previous period of government. However, I am going to use the rest of my speech to comment on the position and debate as far as I think it has been depressing, to say it just as it is – and I am talking about the debate. The setting also seems to me to be sometimes relatively depressing things, because at some central points it is so open-mindedly based on different reality understanding. I also have to say at some point that I feel that the Right and the Advance Party in oral terms and in other contexts say that this is an important report, and that they are some of them that everyone has bad news, etc., but when it comes to comments, they signal something else. So I'm going to read some notes on some central points. The first concerns what kind of trust and weight an addition to the National Audit Office's report. In the setting we can read the following from the Committee's pluralities, Labour Party, Christian People's Party, Left, SV and the Green Party: ‘Coordination is proving problematic in many areas of society. In the field of preparedness, coordination is essential when a crisis situation arises. One of the main findings of the Gjørv Commission was that the error on 22 July 2011 was largely due to a lack of coordination. About the good cancers that didn't find each other. Another important finding was just the lack of ability to take lessons from events and exercises. Against this background, the majority consider it very important that the Riksrevision chose to investigate whether these deficiencies were rectified almost 4 years after the largest terrorist attack on Norwegian soil.’ So there's the Right and the Advance Party outside, and it's going to write: ‘The members of the Committee of the Right and the Progressive Party point to the administrative nature of the deficiencies raised by the Riksaudition. The criticism is of a lack of governance and system follow-up and not of operational preparedness. These members agree that it is important for overall administrative systems to operate, but are in doubt that this type of system oversight provides the best overview of the operational status of the societal security and preparedness area.’;» Another comment from the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the SV states that: ‘a prerequisite for improvement and learning is that bodies subject to criticism meet the criticism with an open and unsolicited attitude, and a willingness to acknowledge faults and shortcomings. Controlled bodies should take up objections where they consider this to be justified. At the same time, the bodies should be aware that the investigations may have revealed elements and weaknesses that they themselves do not see or are aware of.» I must say that I am surprised that the Right Party and the Advance Party do not mean what is said here, and simply do not participate in any comment that seems obvious to me. This was the past, and if we go further, it is also a note from the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the SV and the Green Party, who are pleased with the thorough investigations carried out by the Riksrevision: ‘This majority would stress that preparedness is of the utmost importance for the safety and security of citizens. Due to the serious findings made, this majority would encourage the Riksaudition to follow the field closely in the coming years. This majority believes that the Riksrevision should carry out a similar administrative audit in the field of preparedness over the next two years [[...]] Once again, the Right Party and the Progress Party are not on it. The sum of it paints for me a picture of two parties that don't want to write that the Riksrevision report is important, that it was important that it was implemented, that learning is important, and that someone has to look at one from outside. One may object, but one may not, and one may not follow up on it. Maybe it's urgent, maybe there's other reasons, but there's an impression when you're actually not involved in those things, in my view, relatively obvious things in the form of an annotation. The other thing I have reacted to, and as I thought was special, is that one goes unprobably far away in that nothing happened before the government change, but everything happened afterwards. What I think we need to see is that some politicisation is inevitable in politics. In this setting, it criticises, for example: The Labour Party and SV former government council Faremo, in my view, a heated criticism, but the criticism from the current plurality is harder. And on the contrary, my party criticises the current Minister of Justice. It does not do the Right and Advance parts of the option. Well, I think it's a continuous policy trend that it's been like that. But what I find very special in the setting is the review that the Right and the Progress Party can't be on any more continuous. And then I'll just read two short notes: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Right, the Progressive Party and the Centre, notes that work on strengthening preparedness naturally and with full strength began immediately after 22 July 2011. The work has continued under the government of Solberg. State Council Anundsen confirmed during the hearing that the government of Solberg continued the work started under the government of Stoltenberg.» So that's the comment on the right hand side and not on the right hand side. Furthermore, it says: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Christian People’s Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party, consider it important to stress that 22 July left an administration in the Ministry of Justice on a barbed and in great sorrow. Working conditions were very economical after the Ministry of Justice had literally been bombed. There must therefore be a strong understanding of the limited capacity of a management in such circumstances.» It is not in the right and forward forms. Understand the one who can. I thought this left a hard-to-understand image. Let me ask you, is there a comment here that SV might not have been on? Yeah, maybe it does. I can't ignore it. Maybe we all have to think about it. But I have to say that if the control committee is going to work well, there has to be some ability to raise. Can't you just say one critical word about things? And if there's a critical report, one should be there, if it has to work. It may be a demanding exercise. I don't know if the people who put in SV, the Labour Party and the Center Party in the previous period did it well enough, but at least there's now a job to do there. For the debate here too: I have seen questions about some of the articles. And the representative Raja, whom I really appreciate, and which I thought is very good, was within a couple of things in his post that I reacted to. The only thing was that he criticized the case spokesman and the Labour Party for how they had suddenly turned around in the criticism, that is, they had just discovered that much of the criticism now came against the Labour Party and just turned around. When it comes to turning and using different words at different times, I just wanted to stop a little bit of a flash at it and what the representative Raja said on the day the report was presented. Now I quote from Today's Business: ‘Minister of Justice Anders Anundsen fails his main task of protecting citizens. [[Frp]] It's shocking, thinks big-time representative Abid Raja. [[VT]] He continued: ‘We shall not create a fear situation. But if something should happen, you can't expect to get help. That is what this report shows. It detects a total failure of standby. It has not improved since 22 July," says Abid Raja." In addition, he says: ‘It's shocking. This is so serious that I would like to request full consultation on the matter in the control committee. We can't live with this. The case shows that Frp, who profile himself as the party of law and order, is at a loss," says Raja." I have expressed myself both one and the other too strongly. Show me the politician who doesn't occasionally take a little too hard in a heated situation, but what I might think is special is that the same Abid Q. Raja stands here, three weeks after saying something like that, and keeps a general decision that others have changed what they say. I'm thinking about the first few days. There were several who were out with strong statements. I actually think that the representative Kolberg was among those who got a little bit lower than some others. I'm a little in doubt whether a control committee debate is an appropriate forum for some of the listed ones that were here. I have normally not added myself to the habit of always thanking the case spokesperson at the beginning of my posts. I did it now because a point was made out of it. But I also have to say that I thought it was very special that a representative started his post by saying that he could not thank the case spokesperson – at least if it is based on what he has said in the media. I have not read any media lookups. It may be that the representative Kolberg expressed himself very foolishly there, but what about a conversation about those things? Should it be the dominant theme in a big control debate here? To try to sum up a little bit: First of all, it is very dangerous to be a follow-up clock, but I think that my and SV's proposals, when we started this process – if quick listening, but taking a little better time on the matter itself – would be wise, and that spending time on an important matter might make sense. So that's what we can learn. Secondly, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has an overarching role in Norwegian democracy. At his best he has done good work. During the year I've been sitting there, I think there have been several examples of things where one has done very important work – some with full agreement in the committee, others with shared committee. But it's been used for sensible things. Let's try to see a lot of the control and constitution committee at its best in future settings and debates. Thirdly, I feel that, in the future, we may be able to do well without free speaking time in the debates of the Control Committee. It's not always that the quantity is the determining factor for the quality. Then I've used a quarter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2648	The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs of the European Parliament has a very important role to play. It shall perform in a thorough and credible manner the essential part of the direct control function of the Storting pursuant to the Constitution. Similarly, the National Audit Office has a similar role, and it has large resources to monitor whether the administration complies with the decisions and assumptions made by the Stortinge. Both bodies possess great power, which often results from important tasks. Therefore, the level of precision is also very important, in terms of both audit criteria, methodology and not least conclusions and presentation of the findings made by the National Audit Office. The purpose of the supervision carried out and addressed to the departments and the purpose of the Riksrevision studies is for the administration to learn to implement changes where required. These are important instruments to improve governance. The basis for this case is the National Audit Office’s investigation of the Ministry of Justice and Defence’s work on social security and preparedness. It is not a public security and preparedness study in general, but, as several of the representatives have been involved, it is confined to a part of the coordinating responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, in particular through the responsibility for the supervision of other departments, as well as the administration of the DSB and its members and the management of DSB’s operations. An overall committee points out that the Riksrevision report deals with a limited proportion of preparedness work in Norway and that the report is not an exhaustive review of the emergency situation in Norway. I share that view and believe it also reflects what was said by the police director and the head of the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness in the conducted audit hearing – and to which I joined. For the sake of order, I would also like to point out that I am not repeating to a small extent what I said in the inspection hearing on Saturday 6 June, and will therefore refer to my initial post there, where I addressed the issues raised by the Riksrevision report, and also reviewed some of the measures implemented, or under implementation, which are not covered by the report. Since there has been a discussion in the media on the balance between criticising a national audit report on the one hand and taking lessons on the other, the majority of the Committee considers that the controlled bodies should also take up objections where they consider this to be justified, important. At the same time, there must be no doubt about the will and ability to learn from findings. For things to get better, you have to have the will to recognize faults and shortcomings. I am very concerned that the justice sector should be a learning organisation. Then, of course, we also have to accept that professional disagreements can occur, and that's part of a learning process that includes all of us. I also think it is good when the majority of the committee points out that the Riksrevision conclusions are based on a review of the management documents and other written material as well as some interviews, and not on how the preparedness would work under a real event. I therefore agree with the majority of the Committee that the Riksrevision report cannot be used as a phase in the real situation, but must be seen as a report that points to weaknesses in part of the preparedness work and area. It's important. I also notice that the majority of the committee refers to the fact that, by looking up the media on the same day as the report was presented, and in the next few days, it was made up of the impression that the findings of the report were extraordinary. I therefore think it is very good that an overall committee takes note that after 22 July 2011, there has been a continuous effort to improve preparedness, and that many areas have been successful, although there is still a lot that needs to be improved. Following the comments by the representative Raja on whether we have an optimal preparedness today, I would like to stress in particular that I believe that this is a point we – in a way – never come to, because it will always be a potential for improvement. Indeed, work on social security and preparedness is ongoing over time. This government has launched a wide range of entirely new and concrete measures to improve social security and preparedness. In some areas, we have also continued and reinforced actions undertaken by the previous government. At the same time, I would like to stress that the National Audit Office's study describes important challenges in a complex area. I would like to refer to the hearing, where I pointed out that the findings are important contributions to the further work in my department. I also take the view that the majority of the Committee considers this to be a good foundation, although the majority also argues that some people disagree with the conclusions of the Riksrevision in some areas. As stated in the Riksrevision report, which is largely based on the supervision of the Ministry of Justice and Defence by the National Audit Office, a major effort was made to address the deficiencies identified by the Riksrevision report, already during the implementation of the supervision of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The supervision of health was carried out a few weeks after the government change and therefore, in my opinion, gives a very good status report on the state of the Ministry of Justice and Defence during the time around the government change. I refer mainly to my introduction to the inspection hearing, where this was more closely affected. However, let me briefly mention some of the areas mentioned in the Riksrevision report, which form the basis for the Committee's decision. The majority of the Committee refers to my opinion during the conducted audit hearing where I pointed out that the supervision of the social security and preparedness work of the departments is an important instrument for the coordination role of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. These inspections are developed over time and look different today than they did when they were started. As the Committee points out, there has been too much failure in the past to follow the supervisory recommendations, with the result that improvements to the next supervision should be better in some cases. The changes we have now made by strengthening supervision, by making it clear that there are deviations, and that we are not closing supervision until the deviations are closed, that we are anchoring supervisory results and follow-up in the government as such, as well as opening up public oversight results, I believe that they will be effective, and I am pleased that the Committee agrees. I also think it is good that the Committee expresses satisfaction with the work we have been doing to ensure the follow-up of learning points in events and exercises, for example by using some of the same instruments that we are now using, after we have revised the supervision and instruments in the follow-up to supervision. And I notice that a joint committee emphasizes that this work is complex because, among other things, it is. are many participants in exercises, including non-public organisations. Much of this work is continuous quality development and improvement, and I notice that an overall committee meets the results of the work being done. The Committee points out that the Riksrevision criticises the Ministry's management and follow-up of the DSB. I would therefore like to remind you that several changes have been made in the department's management and follow-up of the DSB after the government change. This applies to both management dialogue, new targets and new management parameters. The aim has been to simplify and improve the management of the underlying establishment. I would also like to remind you of what I said in the hearing, that the development of targets and not least control parameters is also a complex task that needs to be solved over time, and that needs to be changed over time. But our aim has been to get a new structure, which is to simplify and improve communication and management of the underlying establishment. These are also challenges, which the representative Gruvan – I believe – was involved in, related to activity-based goals for businesses. It is also a challenge in some areas, as I mentioned in the hearing of the Control and Constitutional Committee, among others. related, for example, to electricity supervision, where it is also linked to the income page of the DSB. It's a work that we've now done quite a lot of changes, but we still have to work on to make this system get better and better, and it has to be done in cooperation with the underlying agencies. This applies not only to the DSB, but also to other underlying agencies in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The Committee also points out that the Riksrevision considers that communication between the DSB and the Ministry was poor at the time of the investigation. This is an area in which I have been somewhat surprised by the majority of the committee, which in this case is all except the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Centre, because the vote shows that: ‘the different understanding expressed in the hearing of the Control and Constitutional Committee on 6 June 2015 between the Council of State Anundsen and the Director of DSB Jon A. Lea may indicate that coordination and communication between the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the DSB is not good enough’. So this is used to justify the claim in the National Audit Office's report on poor communication between the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the DSB, which both Director Lea and I in the hearing said was very good. Even during the hearing, Lea made it clear that the communication was poor under the previous government. After the hearing, it appears relatively clear, in my opinion, that the problem is not a lack of communication between the DSB and the Ministry of Justice and Defence today, but that the Riksrevision has not focused on when the communication was poor, nor did it sum up this point independently of the improvement that, in my opinion, has obviously taken place. It was then claimed in the same note that information was provided during the hearing that indicated that the dialogue was not good enough. After going through the minutes, in my opinion, at least, quite unambiguously, through what was said, the dialogue is now very good. I would also like to believe that it is important that the Directorates which have their own and independent professional competence should have their own opinions and not be so interconnected with their department as to compromise their professional integrity. It would redefine the role of a directorate, with the professional strength it should have, then also have the opportunity to express its own views on a specific subject in a control hearing. It is possible that this is about a poor level of precision, or that I put too much into my understanding of that comment, but I still think it was important to get the topic addressed. Some time after the government change, I set up regular meetings with the DSB Director about every two months. These meetings are in addition to the ordinary management dialogue. As stated in the committee's statement, the director of the DSB says that the directorate is now satisfied with the communication with my department, and I believe that someone now has to base it. With regard to the setting of the DSB's business management, I would like to refer to my post during the completed audit hearing. I pointed out there that it is up to any management to prioritise itself within the given framework. I also note that the majority of the Committee points out that additional resources should be allocated to the county. I would remind you that the issue of funding for the county has been a debate in the area of social security as well, and the question of resources for the county workers' work in this area must of course be considered in the current budgetary process. At the same time, I would like to stress the importance of coherence between tasks and funding, and the ministry will follow this up more closely in the future. I also mention that there is a work going on to look at the management of the county councillors, as well as that we are going through the task portfolio in terms of funding. New State Instructions shall also be put in place. In the supervision and in the National Audit Office's report as well as in the audit hearing carried out, attention was paid to previous internal cooperation challenges in my department. This, of course, is also reflected in the Committee's position and in the debate here today. The majority of the Committee notes that the State Health Authority points out specifically that the cooperation between the then Rescue and Emergency Department and the Police Department was difficult for a number of years. I would therefore like to refer to my presentation in the completed verification hearing, where I pointed out that I became aware early that there was a conflict between these departments. I therefore started an organisational development process very quickly, which has led to important structural changes. I would like to thank both the representative of Groevan and the representative of Raja for their recognition in this respect. But I will allow myself to link some comments to the comments from the Workers' Party and SV on this. In the setting they say that they believe that: ‘after one year and seven months, it remains unclear whether the Ministry of Justice and Defence is able to coordinate its activities closely’. I believe this is an unfounded claim. There is no indication that there is a lack of coordination in the ministry today. The conclusions of the National Audit Office are back in time. I also allow myself to be amazed at the comments of the same parties in the setting, where they write that they ‘is therefore of the opinion that Minister of Justice and Defence Anundsen should have gone further in improving the interaction within the ministry’. So in a couple of months, I'm going to straighten out what these two parts of the government have accepted for eight years. They have not succeeded in doing anything about it, and then the two parties believe that what we have received as a government is not good enough. According to the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party, it should have been solved even earlier by me – and not by themselves in the previous eight years. It can take the courage of any actionable leader. It's also a bit of a sad reading, because it reminds me a little about disclaimer and the desire to create problems, and not about recognising their solution. So much has been done to follow up the findings of the Riksrevision in the follow-up to the supervision of the ministry. The findings of the National Audit Office will, of course, be included in the follow-up plan of the Department and are very useful learning points for the Department and me. I would also like to say a few words about the work that has been done, and is still being done, in the area of social security and preparedness in general. In particular, I would like to stress that a great many over time have done a great deal to make Norway safer. The 1,046 points referred to by the Police Director, which the Workers' Party in its suspension takes up its term of government, are not the actions of the Workers' Party alone. Many of these measures have been implemented after the government change. But it really shouldn't be a competition for the number of actions or if my Council of State period is better than yours, because we'll never finish this work. There are still new things and new learning points. As politicians, we must accept and be aware of that, even when we are going to follow up these findings later on. It will never be a government that can cover up everything, or secure us against all dangers. It's a work that I'm absolutely sure my predecessors have thought they've done conscientiously, it's a work I'm doing conscientiously, and it's a work all my followers have to do conscientiously. It's actually a work that I expect all politicians, regardless of position and opposition, to want to contribute positively to. Yes, we are partly based on the same wishes for results, but we solve the challenges differently, and we have different implementing powers. But it should also be political, really, a competition to ensure the best possible social security and preparedness in the future, and then we have to gather our strength, then we have to work together. I think it is good that an overall committee so unequivocally concludes that there has been a continuous effort to improve preparedness in many areas. I have no doubt that today's preparedness is better than what it was when the terror hit us in 2011. I have no doubt that the job Storberget started after 22 July 2011, on which Grete Faremo continued to build, and the job I have done since the fall of 2013, has made Norway a safer society, and it has improved preparedness – at a different rate, perhaps, but that it has improved, I am sure. I am pleased that the Committee shows its enthusiasm for my notice of a big social security announcement in 2016 by promoting its own proposal. It may be a bit untraditional, but nevertheless very pleasant for a council to get such support for such an initiative. I also note that the majority of the Committee identifies key areas to be addressed in the Communication, including conceptual clarification, management, culture and attitudes, as well as how the oversight of departments and underlying agencies can contribute to strengthening preparedness. I also notice that the relationship between DSB and statesmen and municipalities should be mentioned, according to what the majority writes. This is the input that I'm of course taking into account in this work. Finally, let me repeat an important message from the carried out verification hearing. Security in everyday life and enhanced preparedness is one of the main areas of government activity. We've done a lot, but a lot remains. The job of strengthening our social security and preparedness is, and will always be, a continuous work. There is a great deal of respect for the job done every day, by professionals and volunteers, in the national preparedness work across the country. National preparedness has improved and it will be even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2743	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2746	I fully agree with what the Council of State now said in its article that relates to the work that all governments have to do, and that it is a continuous process. I think it's absolutely right, as the Council of State said, that everyone really shows good will when it comes to this work. What is a problem here – and the Council of State has attended the discussion – is the discussion that is linked to the comments behind the government parties and that is that nothing happened before the government change, that everything has happened afterwards. I just want to ask if the government council agrees with the government parties' considerations about this, and if so is the case: wouldn't there have been anything happening when the government council came to the department? Is it not true that the Council of State has not built on any of the things that were done by the previous government?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2755	It is possible that I have read the comments incorrectly, but I feel that the government parties have pointed out that the measures taken after the findings of the supervisory report are the ones that have been implemented by this government. That is true, because the findings of the supervisory report are a concrete follow-up through a follow-up plan implemented by the Ministry of Justice and Defence. I do not feel that those comments concern the overall work in the field of social security and preparedness. There it has, as I mentioned in my post – of course and fortunately – even before the government change happened, things that we naturally build on. Many social security and preparedness measures will take time. There are many of the measures that this government has now taken, one of which may not see full effect before one or two major periods. This is, of course, a work that extends widely over time. As regards the findings of the supervisory report, the measures implemented there have been implemented by that government, and it is natural, because it was this government that received the supervisory report.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2760	In his letter to the National Audit Office, the minister writes twice – and I quote: ‘On this basis, I do not believe that there is a basis for the Riksrevision’s conclusion that there are serious weaknesses in the exercise of coordination responsibilities at present.’ In the hearing, the Minister of Justice said he was ‘in agreement with the Riksrevision conclusion at the time of the conclusion’. That is why I need to ask whether the Minister agrees or disagrees with the criticism of the National Audit Office, and whether that will be the basis for his further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2775	That's the same question that the representative Christensen asked during the verification hearing, and I'm answering the same thing now that I answered then, that at the time that the Riksrevisie reached its conclusions, the correct ones. I believe that I have been very clear on that. What I am writing in the letter is that if you were to take into account the measures that are partly implemented, and partly implemented, I believe that at the time I wrote the letter, to put it that way, the preparedness was better than what was expressed in the conclusion of the Riksrevision. It's about, as I've also been clear both in the Stortinge in the past and in the media, a different perception of what the conclusion is going to take into account when it comes to it. I believe that today – and at the time the conclusion was reached – there is no basis for saying that nothing has happened at that time. However, if one looks at the time of the audit report’s collection, that conclusion is based on that conclusion. So I'm behind the conclusions of the National Audit Office, and as I said in my post, we use it in the further work of the Ministry of Justice and Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2780	I didn't quite know how many lines we had at our disposal, so I was a little careful at first. But I just want to say that Anundsen's answer to my line was no answer to what I asked about, he was really talking about something else. I say that it is very clear in the setting from the government parties, which the government council represents, that nothing has happened before the government change. That's what I'm asking if the government's perception was correct when he came to the department, that the previous government hadn't arranged for anything in this security work that we're talking about and discussing here today. That's what's the problem, and then I ask the Council of State to answer it and not say anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2787	I answered it very precisely. I said that in the extensive preparedness work done, there is a lot that was done in the previous government. It has been implemented even more in this government, but I do not understand that the comments the representative of Kolberg refers to, deals with it. I perceive that that note relates to the work undertaken in delivering the supervisory report to the Ministry of Justice and Defence, and the work undertaken as a result of the supervision has been initiated by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2792	In my opinion, there is a clear line from the terrorist action on 22 July until this setting, that the concept of ‘management’ must be given a new content, and that it is a long-term and very demanding work. The Council of State has confirmed that there are serious findings in the National Audit Office's report and has confirmed that one should learn from it and do it better. That's good. My question goes to the comments on which the proposal for a new big message is based. The Council of State has there confirmed that one will take those comments with him, and my question is specific to what is called operation-based management. Will the Council confirm that this should then be discussed in depth, since it is management that has been shown to be the recurring theme since 22 July?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2799	I agree that management must be a very important focus of the Communication on social security and preparedness. It is, as the representative himself says, a comprehensive, large and important, but also very complicated, debate. Changing a management philosophy or changing a management angle is not something that can be implemented by decision. It must be implemented through continuous follow-up, training and dialogue. I also agree, to the extent that the reference previously made to the previous position of the Control and Constitutional Committee in relation to the statements by former Prime Minister and former Minister of Justice in this area, and then operational management will be part of such a work, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2804	It is important to give good signals to your own department and down the systems, with circulars and guidelines. But it's really only worth the job if it's actually being followed up and followed up. My question to the Council of State is what is the plan or strategy of the Council of State to achieve this, so that you can ensure that the commitment is followed up from the top in your own department and in the system to the top. How does the Council of State actually think of working, so that he can assure us that the good signals, circulars and guidelines are actually being implemented and followed up at all stages of the preparedness process?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2812	I think that's a very good question, and it's also a demanding question to answer in 1 minute, but I want to mention some points that I think are absolutely crucial. First, you have to have the governance framework in place, you have to have the formalities and the planning in place, and then you have to have an open dialogue. My experience in the time I have been sitting is that where there have been dialogue challenges, where one has not had an open line, challenges have emerged along the way. That's why it's been important for me to make sure that in most areas we get to an open line, not only between the Council of State and the Heads of State, but also between the departments and the various departments. We have to have a level playing field, we have to have a similar follow-up to the different levels, and we have to be focused on these areas throughout the line both in meeting with me, the ordinary level management, through all-meetings, using open arenas with many added ones, being clear and giving clear control signals on what a wish is to be done – all of this I think is very important, and it also opens up for a dialogue that makes the process even better and more fruitful.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2819	I think that was a very good response from the Council of State, and it seems like the Council of State is on the ball. We've been told that we've wanted the Riksrevision to follow up on this further, and that's why the Riksrevision has the opportunity to do on their own initiative as well, which they're good at doing. There will also be new supervision that will be carried out with the Ministry. Can the Council of State assure us that we will see a completely different type of supervision if it is the Health Inspectorate who will do the next supervision – I am not sure if it is the ones who will do the next supervision with regard to the Ministry of Justice – but that the new supervision to be carried out by both the Ministry of Justice and the other departments, that the work that has been done so far and as it was revealed under Health Supervision No. 3 has not been very good on the part of the outgoing government; it will not be the case during the current government's work on social security and preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2824	For the supervision that takes place after we have changed the supervisory regime, this will be different, simply because where there are deviations, the supervision will not be closed until the deviation is closed. This is followed up by the government quite concretely. If I do find in another department, I report to the government what findings we have made, what deviations have been found, and I will report back to the government when we believe that those deviations are closed. It would in itself mean that if you want to find the same difference in supervision, which has been one of the challenges now pointed out by the representative Raja, it will mean that in the event something has been done quite specifically to make the job worse again. Fortunately, management is designed to have a good learning effect and to be able to improve, and the flaws and deficiencies that have been cleared up in will come back little. What's been the challenge now is that you haven't been cleared up in those problems. The deviations have not been closed, and then it goes between the inspection periods, and then you find the same deviations again. It's a challenge that hopefully we won't see in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2829	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2832	Nothing is more difficult than change. When you have to change, you need to have a reason to change. You need to recognize mistakes and see improvements. And in order to follow criticism, you have to recognise the criticism, understand why it has come, and respect the basis for it. Unjustifiable criticism never prompts change, just to defend. As we were in the change of line, the Minister of Justice wrote in his reply to the Riksrevision in the report that we are now discussing: ‘On this basis, I do not believe that there is a basis for the Riksrevision’s conclusion that there are serious weaknesses in the exercise of coordination responsibilities at present.’ It is mentioned twice in the letter. The reason I dwell on this is that when a responsible State Council receives a report showing that there are weaknesses in the management and follow-up of DSB by the Ministry of Justice and Security, the DSB’s business management contributes to a limited degree to achieving good objectives and results, that three out of nine departments have little followed up recommendations from previous supervision by DSB – on behalf of the Ministry of Justice and Defence – saying that the administration and follow-up of the Department of Justice and Defence is inadequate and that there is no systematic evaluation and follow-up after exercises and events, then there is no time for action, no explanation. The Minister of Justice gives the impression that the Riksrevision findings are not valid, that they are not relevant. For whom does it take time to change something that has been wrongly criticised by someone who is insignificant? In the hearing, the Minister of Justice said something quite different than in the letter. He says that ‘I agree with the conclusion of the National Audit Office at the time of the conclusion’. Now, in the line chord shift, we'll hear something new. That's good. For the question that is still there, is whether he agrees or disagrees with the criticism. It's just one of the statements that could be the right one, it's not possible to mean both of them at the same time. Now we heard the Minister of Justice say he agrees with the criticism. This is the first time. That's new information, and it's reassuring to know. It's also crucial for underlying agencies to know. For the boss thinks you should listen and change after the criticism, or is the criticism wrong and just ignoring? If the Minister of Justice has had conversations with them about this, there is reason to ask. It did not seem quite like that in the hearing. Then we heard Jon A. Lea in DSB, who had obviously heard the Minister of Justice. He repeated exactly the same sentence Anundsen used in his reply to the Riksrevision. Lea said: ‘However, I allow myself to ask questions to the Riksrevision conclusion that improvement points mentioned in the report involve serious weaknesses in the exercise of coordination responsibilities and that it identifies major weaknesses in social security and preparedness work.’ He did not just ask questions, he raised several times criticism of the Riksrevision's conclusion in the hearing. It's worrying for several reasons, and it raises some questions. These questions include:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. Is there any reason to believe that the DSB does not believe that the Riksrevision is a body to listen to? Is there any reason to believe that learning points for the National Audit Office will not contribute to change because they are not considered relevant? Why do the underlying agencies and the Minister of Justice say different things about this in a hearing? Has the Minister of Justice changed his mind and not got it with him? It's problematic. Does the underlying offices and the Minister of Justice have a different view of improvement points? What happens in other cases when the underlying offices and the minister have different views? The hearing did not answer these questions, but it well illustrated the Riksrevision's finding of a lack of dialogue. It might have been said that the dialogue was good, but it didn't work that way. As I said, you have to look for areas to improve if you're going to get better and if you're going to learn. Therefore, exercises and taking lessons from them are crucial in any effort to strengthen preparedness. The national audit finds that no systematic evaluation and follow-up are carried out after exercises and events. The National Audit Office points out that more measures are being put in place to strengthen the work of learning after exercises. That's very good, and I'll give the Minister credit for that. But it's not a systematic evaluation, writes the Riksrevision. Then there can be no systematic learning. It's almost not to believe. However, several actions have been undertaken by the Ministry of Justice and Defence. Action is important, but the results are most important. Therefore, there should be reason to consider changing the measures when the results are missing and when the situation is as it is now, that the members of the team who have been interviewed have not recorded an improvement in the provision of training after the exercises. In addition, it is stated by several directorates and departments that the increase in the number of exercises has gone beyond quality. It's not getting better, it's getting harder. They also report that it could have been practiced more and more specifically. In his reply to the Riksrevision, the Minister of Justice wrote: ‘I will continue to make a strong contribution to this work in my own sector and across sectoral boundaries in cases where improvement points make this necessary.’ It is not a sentence that arouses the desire to learn — or improve — and the question is whether that will is sufficient at a point that is so important to improve social security. For what does that phrase really say? It tells you to keep doing what you've done. Given the Riksrevision's findings, you have to ask yourself the question, Does it hold? Is that good enough? Then I'm going to switch to another comment in the setting. This is because the Right Party, the Progressive Party and the Left are taking up a matter that the Committee has been discussing in the past. This concerns the presentation of the follow-up of the Gjørv Commission report by the government. This is a matter in which the Stortinget discussed thoroughly and made a unanimous decision. That decision was: ‘The situation is critical that prior to and during the acts of terrorism on 22 July 2011 the authorities did not sufficiently implement additional security and preparedness measures that could prevent the acts of terrorism and protect people in the government quarter and on Utøya. The Prime Minister has regretted this in Stortinget. The complaint was correct and historically necessary. The majority acknowledges the Prime Minister’s regret and the government’s efforts to make Norway safer, based on the lessons learned from the acts of terrorism on 22 July 2011.’ It was a unanimous decision in Stortinget. Political Norway woke up on the July day it suddenly began to rain. We learned, we reorganized, we put tens of millions of people into leadership development in the POD and the Ministry of Justice, a number of management and cultural actions were put in place, the big message of preparedness, terror and security came, and the field had high cross-political and humble political attention. We learned, we gained external competence, we got together with the rest of Norway and the Stortinget a wake-up when it came to what was missing in the emergency sector: first of all, good interaction. Therefore, a restructuring work was started so extensively that Hoplegård expressed in the hearing that there were so many measures that the police had to go far in order to be able to follow up. The previous government – and this government – has prioritised the work on preparedness. The intention is the same: a safer Norway. There was broad consensus in political Norway — and this is also the case now — that preparedness measures are important and necessary. I felt that political Norway was learning together, but according to the National Audit Office's report, the will to change did not materialize quickly enough. Some of the measures take time to see results. This case is not about the Yard Commission. Nevertheless, the members of the Committee from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left choose to bring the matter up again and into the Storting. They write: ‘The members of the Committee of the Right, the Progressive Party and the Left consider it critical that the former government was unable to give priority to the work on social security and preparedness until after Norway was subjected to the terrorist attack in 22 July 2011.’ It's the same text, but it's different. It is crazier, and the wording is new and heavier than what the Storting decided at that time. How are we gonna interpret that? What does that mean? Is that a rematch? I don't understand. Work on preparedness in Norway has been based on a broad majority in the Grand Duchy, just as there was a majority for Parliament's story of what happened, why it happened, and what should have been done differently, in the examination of the report of the Gjørv Commission. Why do these lots choose to take up this comment? That's weird. Is there an attempt to say something else? In that case, what then? And why isn't that described? When you first find the need to express this, I would have wanted a reason or a substantiation. This report is thorough. It has serious findings. So far, it's worth noting that only those who are being criticized are criticizing the report. I hope the report is taken seriously, and I hope that it is the last statement from the Minister of Justice that applies, namely, that he takes the criticism seriously. We have no other choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2924	It is a serious matter that we are dealing with here today, because the work on preparedness and social security is precisely about protecting society, protecting us all from events that could put life and health at risk, and not least protecting us from events that could threaten fundamental values and functions in our country. I would therefore like to thank the National Audit Office for their work. We've gone into it thoroughly. We know that the forces of nature are bounding. Hurricane and storm can isolate communities in our country, as it can affect vital power supply and telecommunications lines. We know that stone and string have destroyed villages. I think razed that triggered a river wave in the valley of Årdal, and also razed that made a great fire. Weather can threaten both traffic and oil platforms. Along the coast is a busy task of not playing dangerously from ships that are in the sea or from wrecks. Every day we can watch TV that major accidents are raging in other countries. Even if until now we have been somewhat spared in this country, it has also affected us. I mention train accidents, explosions, floods and fire – and the attack we had been subjected to on 22 July. Natural disasters and other major events in other countries have also affected us here. We think of tsunami, and we haven't forgotten the explosion at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. All of this is an example of the importance of good preparedness and the importance of good coordination. The emergency response must be in order in the first line service — fire department, doctor, police, rescue services and voluntary engagement. However, the follow-up to emergency work must also work in our governing departments, centrally, regionally and locally. Therefore, it is a very important report we have received. This report also addresses the important role of the State. I'm in agreement with the County of Sogn and Fjordane, Anne Karin Hamre, who said in the listener: «The windows are the base wall of the stand-by, and they are often very undervalued. With a little more resources, the County could have been involved and pressured on the work on both risk and vulnerability assessments and emergency planning in the municipalities.’ The National Audit Service recommends that the Ministry of Justice and Security ensure better consistency between the technical control signals being given and the resources made available to the emergency staff. The county plays an important role in coordinating social security and preparedness work at regional and local level. The County Council is also the link between the central and local authorities. Nevertheless, it appears in the report that instructions and management signals from the Ministry are unclear as to how the County Coordination role should be exercised in the event of events. This leads to considerable differences in the way jobs both understand and carry out their coordination role locally. There are some in the National Audit Office’s assessment that, in the event of serious events, missing coordination at regional level may present risks of a decrease in national enforcement capacity. The Minister of Justice said in his hearing that he has undertaken several measures to strengthen the social security and preparedness work under the auspices of the County State. It's positive. But more resources are important, not just more tasks. The County of Sogn and Fjordane also said that she had repeatedly pointed out in the annual report that the number of tasks had increased, and that it was demanding when it was not followed up with the corresponding resources. The County of Westfold, Erling Lae, was united, and he pronounced the following in his ears: ‘I just want to supplement what my colleague says. One might say that there has been a strengthening of preparedness, but it has been done at the central level and by the Directorate, but not yet with regard to the local level and the external level. So one can say that in the wake of the events on 22 July, one has been very focused on that kind of event, while the everyday readiness, for which we are responsible, has not received a corresponding reinforcement in the municipalities." The majority in the committee, in a note, have asked the government to provide enough resources for the statesmen so that they can carry out the preparedness work in a satisfactory way. The number of years spent on standby in the State has been reduced in recent years. I'm just mentioning it: in the North-Trande County, there's only two and a half year's work to be done on standby. The Committee disagrees with many comments. But what's good is that we're a few on a proposal for a decision asking the government to come back to the Stortinget with ‘a new big message on social security and preparedness by the end of 2016'. This allows us to keep up the pressure on readiness, and give us the opportunity to fix things that don't work. For me and the Labour Party, the most important thing now is that we are able to strengthen preparedness. That the position is most occupied with the debt of the previous government, while they are completely acknowledgment of their own government, I think I'm unnecessary and embarrassing. It weakens the authority of the National Audit Office and their important work. I'm asking myself if it's a conscious strategy from the positioning party's side to do this. On the VG website on Monday this week we could read that DSB had been in charge of both the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation, the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Ministry of Justice and Defence just four months ago. It was a violation of all the departments. I think it is serious when I read that the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation does not have a ‘systematised overview of risks and vulnerabilities in its own sector’, that they have not ‘implemented assessments aimed at maintaining or restoring important functions — except for election implementation’, and that they do not work ‘targeted and systematic with exercises’. [[...]] That's not good enough. I thought that everyone should now stand together and take a common grip. I look forward to the new big message on social security and preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2975	In its work on this matter, the Committee has been able to identify serious deficiencies in its preparedness in Norway. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has had a strenuous dialogue with the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness. Some departments did not follow the recommendations of the Directorate. There has been a lack of control over the emergency work of the statesmen. Systematic evaluations and follow-up to exercises and events were not carried out. When adding up these findings, it is obvious that preparedness in Norway was not good enough. The National Audit Office's report, which led to this case, is good and important, and we fully recognise the findings. Then I hear the representative of Kolberg and the representative of Eldegard say we don't, and I don't understand where they take it from. These are claims that I almost have to ask the representative of Eldegard and the representative of Kolberg to document. I can't see that that's right. But the findings are – unfortunately, get one say – not very surprising. The national audit report is based mainly on a supervisory report prepared by the Health Authority in 2013. Their data collection took place from January 2013 until December 2013. In other words, it gives a pretty good snapshot of the state of the Norwegian emergency response apparatus around the government shift, and it is no surprise that the condition at that time was not good enough. The fact that preparedness failed on many levels in the summer of 2011 is well known. We know everyone sitting in this room of the Gjørv Commission's fierce criticism, which Stortinget also went on with unanimity. A large majority also repeats in this setting that the preparedness work in the period before 2011 was critical. It is not a rematch, but it is a finding of the starting point on which the preparedness was four years ago, and we believe that it is an important part of the setting to clarify it. That it takes time to correct such a situation, says itself. We also know about the very demanding work situation of the Ministry of Justice in the period after 22 July. That's why the Riksrevision's findings are, of course, serious, but all in all, not particularly surprising really. We have seen, through our work on this matter and especially during the hearing, that there have been significant improvements in the last four years, and in particular I would say that there have been major improvements in the last half-year. Some of the public claims that preparedness is at the same level as before 22 July are simple and correct. There's no reason to claim at all. On the other hand, there is a basis for saying in clear terms that preparedness has improved significantly on the basis of actions undertaken by the previous government and this government. In the hearing, it became clear that the health oversight does not close its emergency surveillance until the deviations have been corrected. The Ministry of Justice and Defence says that they are planning to close the deviations by the end of June. In the hearing, the Ministry of Health and Welfare described the plan of the Ministry of Justice to close these deviations as robust, comprehensive and good. The consultation also revealed that the dialogue between the Ministry of Justice and Security and the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness has gone from being very poor to getting better and gradually also good. Reorganizations have also been carried out internally in the Ministry of Justice to eliminate conflicts and improve the coordination function in the Department. Then I have to question the impatience of the representative of Kolberg that the Council of State Anundsen was unable to resolve these conflicts more quickly, all the time the representative of Kolberg represents a party that has been sitting with the government and with the Minister of Justice for eight years. It's a wonderful criticism that spending half a year, one year, solving a very demanding situation is critical, but not being able to do it in eight years is going to be completely curative. I don't understand. In total, 1,046 different measures have been implemented to improve preparedness in Norway, ranging from recruiting hundreds of new police officers to improving helicopter response times, getting a new police boat and, of course, better governance and coordination. It seems quite obvious that we are better equipped to deal with a crisis now than we were four years ago. At the same time, ensuring the safety of citizens' tasks is the number one task for the authorities. As many have pointed out earlier in this debate, we will never be done with better preparedness. It has to be done continuously. That is why I am pleased that an overall committee asks the government to present a big message on social security and preparedness during 2016. It is in line with the fact that the Council of State has informed the Committee on the past, and I look forward to the fact that we are being brought up to date with this big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e2996	I want to start with what others have been about, and which I also stressed in my main post, that the most important thing about this debate and dealing with this matter is the fact that, later this evening, we can get together on a unanimous decision that resolves what the Storting needs for the future, namely a discussion on how to deal with this, that a get full security related to the emergency work. I would also like to add that the fact that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee assembled this matter so quickly and dealt with this matter has focused on the matter, and it in itself certainly contributes to the government getting a special attention on the need to promote this message, and that one does so on the basis that the Storting has now asked for. The two things together are at least a very positive result of that discussion and a completely necessary result of it. So some comments from my side now at the end of the debate until as it has behaved. The Labour Party, me and the parties that have supported us in some of the comments, have never claimed that this is a report that is not limited. It is limited, but it deals with fields that are very important for the functioning of preparedness, namely the issue of coordination. I said in my first post that we've learned, and I say that sentence one more time: we've learned. And what have we learned? Well, we have to take into account the reports that are coming, and we have to manage them politically and in fact. It is then clear that although this report is limited in its form, it points to something so essential that it was necessary to focus and put political pressure on it. What I'm responding to is trying to limit the importance of the report by referring to the fact that only the time period of the Health Authority is significant. I believe that this is a violation of the work done by the National Audit Office. That's my answer also to the representative Skutle now said in his post just before me here, that when we say what we say about these issues, it is related to the fact that we cannot fail to recognize the work that the Riksaudition has done on an independent basis after the Health Authority's report has been delivered. There has been a self-assessment, interviews have been carried out, and all the processes normally carried out by the Riksrevision have been carried out. That's why we're saying what we're saying, when the government parties say in their own note that it's primarily the period associated with our government's time. I think that's a political procurator's fist that we didn't need in this context. That's what causes our involvement at this point. So I want to say that I think – and I sat in my seat for a long time and thought about whether I should use that expression, but I say – that it is unreasonable to say that we do not take criticism, as has been said by several of the debaters. In several of the comments and in my post I was very clear on that. When we have a careful criticism of Anundsen's handling related to cleaning up the Department of Justice between the Police Department and the Rescue and Emergency Department, we say in our remarks – and I repeat it from the pulpit – that it is critical that our Council of State did not too. So saying that we haven't criticized both parties for this is completely unreasonable, and I don't need to defend that it wasn't done much earlier. That is why we have written that note, and that is why I have said this from the Parliamentary Chair – and I repeat it now. Why it should then be repeated and repeated and repeated as if we were unbalanced in this field, I believe that is unreasonable. I would like to conclude by saying that I have no desire to be in a Polish situation with the representative Gruvan. I used in the media the term ‘Christian People’s Party a bit on the way’ – I said ‘a piece on the way’. What was my reason for that statement is that the Christian People's Party in the comments supports the fact that the criticism is primarily based on the Health Authority's report. That's one of the reasons why I said that. The second reason I said that is that the measures taken are based on the Health Authority’s report, too – or at least primarily – only. The last is the comment at the end, which was inspired by the Left, that after July 22nd, until the change of government, it had unfortunately not become any better – that is also because Hareide, who is the head of the Christian People's Party and the parliamentary leader, was the head of the Special Committee here in Stortinget, where also the current Minister of Justice and I were sitting, and where the government loyally followed up the treatment and conclusions of that report. And then I said, "Christian People's Party a bit on the way." That it then happened that the representative of Gruvan believes that I am so strongly not doing what I should do as the committee chairman and as the case rapporteur, I hear that he is saying, but at least I have now explained what my considerations about it are, and I believe that it holds.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3011	I note that the committee leader does not want to go back on the statements he has made to the press, where he – quite wrongly – draws both the Christian People's Party and the Left into a situation that we are not in, and says that we do not base the Riksrevision report, that we do not agree with it, that we come up with criticism of it, etc., which is therefore not correct. I note that he has an approximate way of replying to the representative of Gruvan at this point, but he does not distance himself from the fact that the statements he has made to the press are incorrect. I should actually start by referring first to the word of the representative Solhjell. Now he is not in the hall, but I hope some will be told to him that I appreciate him very much. I experience him as a very reflective and good representative and have respect for what he stands for, but I do not feel that the comparison he made was quite precise. I criticized the preparedness work when the report was presented in the media, and there was a big debate in the media that the preparedness was not good enough. Based on this, I said it was too bad. I also demanded consultation, and the hearing was. And I was not alone in demanding a hearing at the end of the day. I also said that the readiness does not appear to be better after 22 July. It was based on both what appeared in the report and what appeared in the media, expressed by the National Auditor himself. I also criticized the Council of State at the time. And I criticized the Council of State here in the Chamber instead, when I held my opening, and also in the hearing, for the fact that the Council of State did not take the criticism seriously in his letter of reply, in which he rejected the Riksrevision report. But, as I also said from here, the Council of State has clarified this both in a press release and – in particular – in the hearing, where he explained why he wrote what he wrote and how it should be understood. He clearly stated that the Riksrevision report is a basis for himself, for the Ministry of Justice and for all the institutions underlying it. Then I think that piece is cleared away. On the other hand, what the representative Martin Kolberg, as rapporteur of the case and as chairman of the committee, did was that he first said something to NTB, which was quoted by a dozen other media, about the Christian People's Party and the Left – obviously incorrect things, which were not to be recognized in our remarks. My way of criticising emergency work was not wrong, because the Health Authority's report has shown that preparedness actually failed on a number of points. So saying, based on those reports, that readiness has not improved etc., is not entirely comparable to the deliberately misrepresentation given by the representative Kolberg. I have to say ‘consciously’, because I put in my post instead that there might have been a misunderstanding here, that something else might have happened, that it was not conscious. Then one had occasion to say from the pulpit that it was not conscious, and that that was not the way it was meant to be, but it did not happen to the representative of Kolberg. To go a little further on this: this NTB message came night to Tuesday. A few days later – as far as I know it was yesterday – a new, separate, interview with the VG, by journalist Alf Bjarne Johnsen, where he repeats these misguided suggestions. Then, suddenly, there is not one interview you have given, but two separate interviews, on two different occasions and at two days' intervals, as there has been a reference time in this respect. It's a different thing that a deliberate misrepresents both the Christian People's Party and the Left, than that I criticize the preparedness work for being poor and demanded a hearing based on the Health Authority's report and on the National Audit Office's report, and that we have actually had a hearing. So with respect for Solhjell – I like the representative very much – that was not a very good comparison, I think. That I did not want to thank the rapporteur from the Chair for the work he has done lies partly in this, and partly in the fact that this may appear to be a deliberate strategy to remove the substance and attention of the matter from what it should be about, i.e. health oversight report No. 3, which is a clear judgment of the Labour Party government's work with readiness and a very crass criticism of the job done or not done, did not follow up. As you turn your attention to whether you agree or disagree with the Riksaudition report, you can benefit from the efforts of protecting your own party and its own party's failed preparedness efforts. I understand well, but when you do this by being the case rapporteur, there is no reason for me to praise the case rapporteur. Then it is very difficult to stand behind the case rapporteur. Then we're wrongly drawn into something that we haven't said or stood for, because we're behind the National Audit Office's report, both the Christian People's Party and the Left. When this comes to the top of a trendy case production, when the work of one's own party is produced better and beneficial, I find it difficult to appreciate that work. I just want to add that otherwise I very much appreciate the chairman of the committee, Kolberg. We have an excellent, good relationship. I like the representative of Kolberg very much, but in this particular case I think this is not something you can say is affordable. I also tried to bring this up with him on two hand, but when it did not lead to anything, this had to be said from here. With regard to the opinions of the representative Solhjell on the speaking time of the Committee, I fully agree with him. I have mentioned this earlier in the committee. Although these matters are of such a nature that we might need some more time, one should still be able to reduce speaking time from 30 minutes to maybe 10 minutes to each party – or at least to each representative. It should be possible to do that. So one last point. Kolberg once again says, "We've learned." I'm not sure if you've actually learned. Because if you had learned, you would have got involved and followed up the supervisory report no. 2 and actually made the changes that were to be made. And health surveillance report No. 3, which is mainly about Grete Faremo’s period – a month or two into Anundsen’s, but it is not worth mentioning, and a little back in time into the Storbergets, but it is also not worth mentioning – clearly shows the breaches that I went through in my introduction instead. It shows that you haven't actually learned, and then you say, well, we've learned, and then you repeat, well, we've learned, yes, we've learned. But Grete Faremo and the previous government didn't really learn, I must report with respect. Health surveillance report No 3 shows the opposite of learning. We were clearly shown how no self-criticism is taken in the hearing, when you count eight times – and this can be counted through the minutes – you are given the opportunity to answer whether former Minister of Justice takes self-criticism: Can you mention something you take self-criticism on? Former Minister of Justice couldn't take self-criticism on any things, but started the answers with: What we've done is... and what I must first be allowed to say is... There are typical politicians' responses in News 18 broadcasts, where we talk away from the problems. But in such an important case for the control committee to sit in a big hearing about this and not answer directly the questions is not exactly to say that you have learned. If you deliberately avoid what the Workers' Party has done and has not done in this, you have not learned. And when you deliberately try to take the attention away from the work that is done and not done, and instead focus on the disagreement about the weight, clarity, significance, etc. of the Riksrevision report, you really don't do learning. I understand that the representative Martin Kolberg would not have a polemic discussion with the representative Gruvan about this, even though he and I took up the same points, but I am quite clear that I am ready to take a polemic discussion about this if the representative Kolberg wants it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3030	At this point in time, the President finds reason in all kindness and so carefully she can remember that we have a very long evening ahead of us. It includes six cases from the Transport and Communications Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3033	It was unfortunately necessary to take the floor again, because I think that both the committee position and, not least, the debate here today have illustrated why the control committee has problems working as it was supposed to work when it was set up. I've had the pleasure of reading this setting in the last few days. I would like to recommend that reading to several members of the Committee – perhaps addressed today in particular to the rapporteur. It is precisely stated that a prerequisite for the Committee to act with authority is that one rises above party-political small cranes. This means that if you are to get collective positions from the committee, you have to start with that work already in the committee. Other speakers before me have pointed out that this urgency that was put on the committee has also gone beyond the Committee’s work – for those who had to hope that the Committee could gather on something that was a common factual description. I also have to remind you that we have had other hearings that have been built up on the basis of a lot of speculation, and then it's not the Riksrevision's reports that I'm looking for, but newspaper essays. I just mentioned that we have spent a great deal of our time in a completely desertless consultation on the location of a hospital that everyone knew would be conducted by the country's health minister. It is clear that if you adopt an attitude based on the references and contributions of others in which you encounter suspicion, we will not be able to get to the joint work that is needed to listen to our settings. We can't do a lot of these things until we're taken off the poster.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3043	I'll be brief. I want to start by saying that I also have the deepest respect for the representative of Kolberg as committee leader and as politician, and I put him high as a politician and as a human being. What we are responding to in this context, and I had hoped that the representative of Kolberg could have been a little clearer, is the presentation that we have not taken seriously the national audit report. Ten times in the setting, in our comments, it says that we take it seriously. We have also shown the Health Authority's report, that's okay, but we've said ten times that it's serious findings, that these are things that we're going to take very seriously. I think it's going to be a special thing to create the impression that it's only the Workers' Party that takes this seriously, and not the rest of us. I had hoped that the representative of Kolberg as rapporteur could have been clear on this and given us support and support. We have carefully assessed the report, the hearings, and the findings. That it should then reproduce the impression that the national audit report has not meant much to us – and the same for the Left – creates a false impression, so I had hoped that the representative of Kolberg could have been clear on that. Otherwise, I would like to say that I am very happy that Kolberg brought this up by getting the matter on the agenda here today. I think it was the right initiative. Being able to get a quick action, getting focused on the matter and getting political pressure we fully support, and we think it was the right way to deal with it, even though we might have thought a little bit more time. Otherwise, I just want to say that I feel that even though we have gone a little in and out of different comments and made different aspects of the matter with different wordings, we agree on the decision. I think that's very important. We have an attitude, an ambition, to raise this important area further forward, and I don't think we're very divided about the way forward. We disagree on how we can characterize what has happened, but I think we very much agree that the Riksrevision's findings, the Riksrevision's points, should be fully followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3054	I notice what the representative of Gruvan says, and I fully agree that we are behind this conclusion. And I notice that both of us are disappointed that the case rapporteur in two media, first of all one, is quoted in all media around the country, and then this repeats in a separate interview with the VG. Then you have the reason here now. He has been given several occasions, and it is still possible for the case-rapporteur to sign – otherwise the case-rapporteur does not like not to let himself be drawn if you have the opportunity to do so – and just say clearly: it was not right. Neither the Christian People's Party nor the Left have at any time said that we do not believe in the Riksrevision and do not base their report. You have an opportunity to do that. You have the opportunity to take the floor and say it, but I understand that pride stands in the way. It's not exactly saying that we've learned.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3061	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3075	The National Audit Office has submitted a complete notification of its activities in 2014. I present a unanimous opinion from the Control and Constitutional Committee on the subject of the message. It is the opinion of the Committee that the message well describes the work and activities of the National Audit Office in 2014. The Committee is pleased that planned actions for 2014 were mainly implemented in line with the business plan. Both this and previous messages show that the work of the National Audit Office is absolutely essential for the Storting to be able to carry out its control of government and administration in a good way. The National Audit Service writes in the message that there is a need for continuous improvement of processes and systems in order to succeed in its mission. It is reassuring that the biggest external control body in Storting focuses on this. The national audit carries out user surveys for the different types of audits each year. It is positive that the Riksrevision thus obtains feedback from audited establishments and departments. The Committee has noted that the user surveys generally provide good results – this applies to all types of audits. It bears witness to the fact that the Riksrevision is an organisation that has a great deal of respect for the administration. There's a lot of evidence that there's a good interaction between the National Audit Office and the government. However, there are some challenges that I would like to point out from my point of view. It is not always the government that follows up what is pointed out by the National Audit Office. It happens too often that the Riksrevision has to point out the same weaknesses over and over again. It is therefore important that administrations learn from the work of the National Audit Office, including accounting audit, company control and administrative audit. Discussions in the wake of the National Audit Office’s work are important for the development of good and efficient administration in Norway. It is perhaps the administrative audit that is most often the subject of discussion. It is also possible that the members of the Control and Constitutional Committee may have different opinions on the details of the administrative audit. It is essential to remember that this is also an expression that the National Audit Office focuses on current and important policy areas through the administrative audits. We should be grateful for that. The Riksrevision was reorganised on 1 May 2014. The Committee hopes that the reorganisation can contribute to the good development of the organisation. The national audit represents a high level of professional competence, including international competence, and it is important that the strong environment of competence is maintained and further developed. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about the National Audit Office's international work and activities. Norway has a strong national audit — also internationally. It may not be by chance that the Norwegian National Auditorate is sought as a member of so-called peer reviews, where national audits assess each other’s audit practices and organisation. As an example from the message, I can mention that for the fourth time the Norwegian National Audit Service has participated in a peer review of the US National Audit Office. This is the second time that the Norwegian National Audit Office has conducted this work. In my opinion, it is an expression of high professional quality that other national audits also recognise. The Committee is also pleased that the National Audit Office helps other countries to build up a good State Audit Authority. National audit assistance projects are based on the idea that an independent and effective national audit is a fundamental prerequisite for a well-functioning public sector. It is very important for the fight against corruption. The notification refers to the National Audit Office’s institutional cooperation projects in several countries. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Riksrevision can contribute to an improved system of governance in this way. The Committee agrees with the content of the Communication of the Riksrevision and it is a unanimous committee that submits it as a referral to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3094	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3108	The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has reviewed the minutes of the Council of State for the period from 1 July to 31. on December 2014, and submitted a unanimous vote. The Committee has no comment on the minutes, whether in the case of admissibility cases, appointments of office or laid down, amended or repealed rules. Regulations laid down by the King of State Councils form part of the Committee's six-monthly review of the State Council's protocols. In the course of its review, the Committee asked the Swedish Research Section to carry out studies on selected regulations to see whether they are in line with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. The Committee has not found any basis for further examination of any of the regulations laid down by the Council of State in the second half of 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3113	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3127	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. The President will also propose that up to five lines of reply from members of the Government be given within the allocated speaking time and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Åse Michaelsen, who has the floor on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Steffensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3136	This case is about road safety, and all the parties at Stortinget share the vision of zero fatalities in traffic. A loss of life in traffic is one too much, and then it is good to see that the increase in traffic safety in the majority of the population, such as high growth in road maintenance, several middles, three times as many rumen fields and four times as many controls on heavy vehicles, produces results and that the decrease in the number of fatal accidents continues. This is very good. The Committee as a whole is committed to providing drivers with a safer everyday life. But today the issue is about the use of a specific instrument, namely distance-ATK, or average measurement. Here the points of view are divided. There is no doubt that those who wish to make extensive use of the route ATK have the aim of increasing road safety. I also do not doubt that the route ATK can have a certain effect, but the report should not be read as the only truth, because it has clear weaknesses. TØI itself writes that the data base should have been about five times larger, and we politicians know that when it comes to polls, at least over 1,000 people should be asked to give a real picture. So when TØI writes that it should be five times greater than what has been the basis, it's important to notice that. Furthermore, they say that accident reduction can be a result of coincidences, but that they have nevertheless concluded that the decrease is probably due to distance ATK. I reread the report yesterday, and then contacted TØI and the one who had written the report. She was able to document the causes of the 22 fatal accidents mentioned in the report. I think that's the most important thing in this context. I asked how many of these were due to high speed, and how many were due to other reasons, such as driving in a rush, the road's constitution, suicide, difficult weather conditions, the car's driving technical condition, etc. I was then told that there were at least 2 accidents out of the 22 how high the speed was the main reason – i.e. 2 out of 22 accidents. So the other accidents could have happened regardless of whether it was the distance-ATK or not. She further wrote that in the other accidents was also high speed likely, at least as a contributing factor, but based on the information she had available, she could not exclude other factors, so she would not speculate. To be honest, it's a very thin basis to make a decision if we're going to open up to widespread use of such a controversial tool as the route ATK. In another report, ‘Death accident analysis in road traffic 2012’ from the State Road Administration, the cause of fatal accidents has been analysed. Accidents are often caused by many factors, and in 2012, high speed was a contributing cause of 32 pst. of the fatal accidents. A big difference in weight – in other words, meeting accidents where a car hits a car, a passenger car hits a cyclist or an MC, or how old Lada hits a new SUV – was the reason for 31 pst. of the fatal accidents in 2012, i.e. One-third. The fact that the car is old and does not have modern safety equipment is contributing cause and factor for death in almost half of the fatal accidents, and conditions such as worn tyres, driving in a drug-induced condition, suicide and difficult driving conditions are other reasons. Much of this can never be changed by using the distance ATK, and I think there is a thin basis for calculating when the report from TØI takes all kinds of fatal accidents on the routes, instead of just looking at the number of fatal accidents where speed has been the determining cause. Against this background, I would like the Stortinget to have supported our proposal that it is natural to go through the guidelines and use of the route ATK in connection with the notified traffic safety message. One thing that unfortunately Stortinget does not seem to be concerned about anymore is privacy and monitoring. Now it's true that the images will automatically be deleted if you haven't been driving illegally, but in all cases where the Storting is going to discuss the challenges of monitoring, we need to see it in a larger context. With a few keystrokes, you can easily convert the route-ATK scheme so that the images are not deleted. It won't happen under this government, and it probably won't happen under the next government, but we don't know what society will be like in 10 or 20 years. Then I believe that it would be problematic to organise extensive monitoring of law-abiding citizens, and, for privacy reasons, would strongly warn against the use of route ATK. I am addressing the proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3151	The representative Åse Michaelsen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3154	The majority of the Committee on Transport has called for the reopening of the route measurement of speed. This will allow road authorities to take a very effective action against speed-related traffic accidents again. I would like to start by thanking the Christian People's Party and the Left for supporting the proposal. The reactions to the proposal were not expected from those working with road safety. Jan Johansen, director of Trygg Trafikk, said in his press release: ‘This is a happy decision. Stretching ATK saves lives and needs to be implemented.’ UP Chief Knut Danielsen pronounced to Rana Blade: ‘It is a real innovation for everyone working for road safety that the majority of the Committee on Transport and Communications today is in favour of refocusing on the average measurement of speed over longer distances with photoboxes.’ I think it is alarming that we have a government and a Minister of Transport who have stopped the possibility of using this effective tool. If we're going to reach the zero vision target, it's important that we apply a wide range of measures. Last year the measure was evaluated by the Transport Economic Institute and the conclusion was 49-54 pst. reduction of death and injury. The findings are consistent with previous evaluations — not just this one — and confirmed in international studies. High speed is one of the most important factors in the explanation of fatal accidents. Stretching ATK and normal ATK are effective supplements to the police's regular checks. The government must now reverse its decision to stop the further use of the average speed measuring photo boxes. The government must also reverse the refusal of the application by the Directorate of Road to set up average measurements in the Ellingsø tunnel and the Valderø tunnel in Møre and Romsdal. The zero vision and the national targets for further reduction in the number of road fatalities and serious injuries in the next few years are ambitious targets and require us to use the entire toolbox with measures to achieve the targets. The government said in the government statement that they want to reduce the use of the route ATK, but said at the same time that they would evaluate this. The evaluation is done, it was finished last autumn. The conclusion was, as I said, a reduction of up to 54 pst. of severely damaged and killed. Despite this, in March this year, the Ministry of Transport rejected, without justification, a request from the Directorate of Road to set up the route ATK in the Ellingsøjtunnel and the Valderøjtunnel on Rv. 658 in More and Romesdal. The tunnels are very accident-prone. 78 people have been killed or seriously injured since the opening in 1987 up to and including 2013. On-site measurements have shown that the average speed is very high and the police cannot carry out checks in these tunnels. The majority of the Committee therefore gave a decision requiring this Decision to be converted. The Minister has also stopped the application for section ATK on fv. 170 in Akershus. Akershu County Municipality has adopted the route ATK on a short distance of fv. 170. Eleven people have died and several dozen have been injured since 2000 on this 5.9 km long stretch between Heia and Mork. Now this application can also be carried out. Targeted work on increased road safety over time has produced good results, but too many people are still being killed and severely damaged in traffic. Traffic accidents lead to extreme suffering for the people affected and cost society huge sums. It is therefore incomprehensible that the government has sidelined and does not support this proposal, which is one of the means of achieving zero vision. The working party considers that both road standard and vehicle characteristics are important road safety measures. We will therefore continue to invest in both expansion and maintenance as well as in measures for further renewal of the car park. The Progress Party and the Right argue that they would rather build and maintain roads and give priority to road safety measures such as enhanced mid-pointing, road lighting and control of heavy-duty cars. The argumentation is problematic. All these measures are good – we agree with them – but they work differently. Those measures should therefore not be set out against each other. Route ATK is a local measure on accident-prone routes where high speed is a problem. It does not help to control heavy-duty vehicles on Svinesund whose problem is high speed in the tunnels in Møre and Romsdal. Our national targets are ambitious and therefore the entire toolbox needs to be used. Despite the happy reduction in traffic deaths to date in 2015 and good figures in 2014, it is important that we are not satisfied. We must pursue all the road safety gains we can, in the short, medium and long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3200	The work on road safety consists in taking many measures at the same time. It is important to have a broad approach to this work. The government has announced that it will present a comprehensive Road Safety Communication to the Stortinget in 2016. That message will represent a milestone in road safety work, and the Stortinget will be invited to a complete discussion on the topic and not just to consider each action separately. It is good to see that we are now at a level of heavy damage and killing in traffic, which is the lowest since the 1950s, despite dramaticly many more vehicles on the roads. The development for 2015 is currently looking good. It shows that many of the measures taken actually work, but it's a reminder that we're not in the goal of the zero vision. Every single person we lose in traffic is one too much. Since October 2013, the government has implemented several measures that have improved road safety. The most important thing is the increased commitment to the maintenance and renewal of our roads. For the first time in several decades, we are now reducing the maintenance run. This means that the roads become more accessible, but also that they become safer to drive on. The investment in road construction has never been greater. When we also this week discussed Report. St. 25 for 2014–2015, On the right track, it represents a historical separation of time in the development of non-conference roads in the most populous areas of the country. In addition, the construction of more mid-driving works and the strengthening of the mid-driving marking of existing roads are more important than the objective of the national transport plan. Only in 2014 has a mid-point gain of 212 km of highway been established, while the target was 74 km. The latter is a consequence of the government's service in terms of road cover. Several non-meeting roads and enhanced mid-pointing may be the most effective measure we can take to reduce accident rates. This government has also quadrupled the number of checks on heavy-duty vehicles, and new technologies are being introduced to make these checks more effective. In addition, the consequences for non-compliances have become more stringent. This will undoubtedly have a preventative effect and will mean that less and less will take the chance of driving illegally, with the positive effect it will have on road safety. There is no doubt that there is a link between speed and number of accidents, as well as measures to check that the drivers stay within the speed limit, and awareness-raising work is important in this context. Increased bets on random checks and more visible police are probably what has the most preventative effect, as it is unpredictable and therefore something that we drivers have to take into account on the whole drive. So for distance-ATK. Automatic speed measurement has already been established in many places in the country, approx. 300 photo-boxes. On 23 sections, so-called distance ATK is established. The conditions for establishing average measurement are already relatively strict today. There is a sufficient need to limit this type of instrument to sections which are particularly exposed to accidents, while at the same time the use of route ATKs must be viewed against other road safety measures. The use of the route ATK is likely to have a significant impact on speed reduction, but at the same time it can contribute to unnatural driving patterns because many reduce speed unnecessarily and thus can contribute to creating both impatience and dangerous situations in traffic. We're not opposed to using the distance-ATK in some cases. As the Council of State also points out in its reply to the Committee, it can, for example: be appropriate to use this type of speed measurement in tunnels where it is difficult to control speed by other means. It is an assessment that must be made on a case-by-case basis, and I trust that it has been done for the two tunnels in Ålesund. There will be a totally hopeless practice if Stortinget starts to deal with the location of each photo box, as it is now put up in this case. For this reason, the Right and Advance Party have made a proposal asking the government to assess the criteria and guidelines for the use of ATK and route ATC within the framework of the work on a comprehensive Road Safety Communication. The Stortinget will then be able to review the legislation on a principle basis and in a perspective where the use of automatic speed measurement is assessed in the context of other instruments in road safety work. I am convinced that we will provide a better result for road users than we will assess the location of each photo box in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3226	Let me start by giving tribute to the proposers for promoting a good proposal. Traffic safety must have the highest priority in transport policy, and route ATK is one of many instruments that we know works. Traffic safety gains are well documented, both in Norway and internationally. Then it's a little strange that the government chooses to say no to this. Governments have more faith in other measures, such as improved roads, more controls on, among other things. combinations of vehicles and several spacer fields or middle parts. All these are very good measures, and he has the full support of the Christian People's Party. But for us, there's no contradiction here. If we're going to get safer traffic on the road, we have to do more things at the same time. For example, rumen fields and average measurements have two completely different purposes and should therefore not be set against each other and compared. While reinforced mid-pointing is a measure aimed at fatigue and inattentiveness, the route ATK is a measure to slow down speed. While ATK operates on all accidents on the route, enhanced central marking only works on meeting accidents and off-roads to the left. We have to have both. So it's said that distance-ATK leads to jerk-and-nap-driving or poor traffic flow. Yes, I'm sure some people experience it this way. Feelings are subjective. But if distance ATC had led to several serious accidents, it would have appeared in accident statistics. Professional environments need to work based on knowledge. We know that this works. A few single sections have had several accidents after the ATK was installed, we have registered that. Elsewhere, the accidents are completely gone. But the numbers are small, and so we can't break up the numbers this way. We have to look at the average effect, which, according to the Transport Economics Institute, is up to 54 pst. fewer killed or severely injured. TØI believes that this conclusion is very solid and is on a safe professional basis. That is, here we are talking about an action with a significant positive effect. What measures can give over 50 pst. reduction in the number of fatalities and injuries? Two reports from TØI, ordered by today's government, document the effect of photoboxes. On 14 routes with average speed measurement, the number of personal injury accidents has been reduced by between 12 and 22 pst, and the number of fatalities or injuries has been reduced by between 49 and 54 pst. The report concludes that the effect of average measurement is at least as high in tunnels as on open roads. Also TØI's conclusions for point measurements at photoboxes show that the photoboxes have a good effect on the speed at which the measurement is made. It is now committed to infrastructure and improvements. That's very good. The nature of the road is very important for safety. But we don't have to use it as an argument to exclude photoboxes. We need to use different measures, depending on the needs of the individual route. It helps, for example: not with heavy-duty car control and maintenance when the problem is high speed in a specific tunnel. The national target of reduction in the number of fatalities and injuries to 2018 is based on a reduction in the speed level of 25 pst. of this reduction. Then we have to use different tools, and distance-ATK is one of them, one of them very effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3245	We have no one to lose, and we must use all the measures to ensure that we do not lose more than what we already do. Extensive ATK is one of many road safety measures, and the State Road Service recommends the measure on high average speed, high expected damage costs and high road safety benefits. The centre party considers that the national road safety targets must be ambitious and that a number of different measures are necessary to reduce the number of fatalities and injuries in traffic. Several of the previous speakers have well explained the different measures needed. I also show that distance-wise ATK has been evaluated. TØI concluded with a reduction of up to 54 pst. in the number of people killed and badly injured where they had ATK. That, I think, is a good basis for saying that it is one of the measures we should pursue. There are many people who choose to drive very fast on routes and in tunnels where they shouldn't do it at all, and they put themselves and others at risk. I see in the media that some have been taken for over 200 km/h in some of the tunnels in my own home country. It's quite violent. I also record that the Progress Party in my home country, Nordland, has said that they are positive to ATK under one condition – that you increase the speed limit somewhat in those tunnels. Nor has it been long since we saw an overview from the UP of high speed on a number of routes, and they had fucked 16 driving licences on just a small increase one day. It says something about the need for measures to reduce road speed. The centre party is very pleased that the majority have agreed on the proposal we presented and that section ATK can be used for particularly accident-prone sections and in tunnels when it is in line with professional recommendations and established guidelines. The rapporteur showed that there was a problem when it came to monitoring. I mean, it's not. The privacy notice concluded in 2011 that the route ATK is not in breach of the Data Protection Act. So there's no good reason to say no to that, but only good reasons to actually say yes and let it be one of the many measures we need in road safety work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3264	The left is concerned with reducing the number of accidents. Many measures contribute to this. In order to reduce accidents, and in particular fewer serious accidents, speed means a lot. In the past, the Left has rejected average data protection measurements. We've changed this position. Route ATK or average measurements are now carried out in such a way that data on cars that do not run over legal speeds are immediately deleted. Therefore, the privacy department has concluded that average measurement does not conflict with the Data Protection Act. So we've changed our point of view. Average measurements are being carried out today in such a way that privacy is properly protected. Routes where average measurements are made have shown that the speed is lower. This in itself reduces the number of accidents. That is why we believe it is a good measure to use average measurement on sections that are particularly vulnerable to accidents. In addition, it is challenging to perform normal speed checks in tunnels. There's also a mean measurement solution. Average measurement shall not replace other good road safety measures, but as a supplement where this is not enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3273	Let me start by saying that I'm very happy that the proposal that I've been promoting gets a majority today. In line with what the State Road Service says in its strategy – that the route ATK appears to be an effective road safety measure that can help reduce the number of deaths – this is an action I see few concerns with. It was highlighted by Åse Michaelsen that this is a controversial measure, but – with all due respect – I have only perceived that it is the Progress Party that sees it as a controversial measure. When I talk to other people – like when I was in Ålesund and discussed the route-ATK, average speed measurements, with the sunsets – there's a clear understanding that this is a sensible measure, because in tunnels where you have 8 pst. increase, and where there have been very many fatal accidents and many accidents in which people have been seriously injured, they see few good reasons why this should not be done. The government completely slowed down the spread of average speed measurements when they joined. In the government statement there was a clear negative attitude to this. Former State Secretary Bård Hoksrud stated that he felt this was a suspicion of all drivers. In this case, it must be said that all checks carried out by the police or authorities to take rough drivers and reduce speed are a suspicion of all drivers. When we know that in the period 2005-2008, speed was involved in 50 pst. Of all fatal accidents – in 2012 correctly reduced to 28 p.m., if I am not mistaken, following a campaign targeting the drivers – there is no doubt that speed is associated with a significant proportion of fatal accidents. It is easy for some in the debate to mix average speed measurements with standard photoboxes. The usual photoboxes show that people are slowing down, and that you get a jerk-and-tap drive – I fully agree with that. But the point of distance A.T.K. is that once you know there's an average speed measurement there, people run slower. Then people run below the speed limit. This is clearly seen in the TØI report available. If there is one thing we know about fatal accidents and accidents in which many people are seriously injured, speed is what creates the really big accidents. We know that kinetic energy is equal to 0.5 mv2. Then we know that the faster you drive, the stronger the effect of the extra kilometers in the hour you drive too fast, the longer the braking distance gets, and the worse it gets. I don't understand why the Progress Party seems to want to hold a protective hand over rough riders. I don't understand. Since the entry into force of the Progress Party, they have increased the speed limits on motorways, but they have not been willing to come up with the restrictive measures needed to slow down the people who are driving too fast. In my opinion, distance-ATK, average velocity measurement, is a good example of not doing something that we know works. I also think that the Christian People's Party had a good post that just showed the difference between what's about middle parts and space fields, and distance-ATK. rumen fields take one type of traffic accidents, are effective and must be implemented. The sectional ATK makes sure to slow down. That's very good. What is my question for follow-up is, in fact, now: how quickly can we expect the Council of State to follow up the decision we are making today – with regard to the concrete deep tunnels of 8 pst. rise and many fatal accidents, between Ålesund and Vigra, i.e. the Valderøy tunnel and the Ellingsøy tunnel? How fast can we expect average velocity measurements to come up there? It's a cheap measure. How fast can we expect that to come? And elsewhere where people have wanted action – as fv. 170 in Akershus, where 11 people have lost their lives between Fet and Sørum since 2000, where police, road authorities, state politicians, rapporteurs and safe traffic believe that the route ATK would be a quick and effective instrument, and there, for example. the middle parts would cost over 400 million. kr to introduce – how quickly can we expect such places to get yes?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3294	The overall theme of this debate is road safety. Traffic safety is the most important thing we work with here from the government, and it's a very important thing that you've discussed and worked with in the Stortinget for a long, long time. One has a zero vision target, and I would say that all the parties in the Storting have supported it. The traffic fatalities in 2014 were 147. There are 147 people who have gone away too early, and family, friends and colleagues miss someone they're happy with. The joy in this is that there are 40 fewer than in 2013, but there are still 147 too many. So far in 2015, we've seen that evolution is still positive. By the end of May there were 42 fatalities in road traffic, compared to 57 years earlier. The trend now shows that there will be the least tragic year on Norwegian roads since the war. It's something to enjoy in everything that's search. In this work, it is important to have an overall approach. Traffic safety work contains many different factors. In the action plan that we are working on, there are 122 different measures, ranging from simple awareness campaigns, driver training and technical things with cars to the major road projects, which cost a lot of money and take a long time. Photobox is one of the tools. There are already over 300 photo boxes on the roads. The road sections that have been discussed have not suddenly become dangerous now. As mentioned earlier, traffic has been killed there for a long time. Nevertheless, we see that there have not been any photo boxes, either by the previous government. So photo boxes are what solves all of the problems, become too simple. That photoboxes have an effect, there is no doubt about it, but many different grips have an effect. Our government has prioritised taking action where one has downgraded too much in the past. In many cases, photoboxes have become the simple grip that makes a bad path poor, but with a little more control. Our approach would rather be to spend more money on cleaning up the road, making it better and safer in everyday life. This is made visible in the State Road Service’s 2014 annual report. The state Road Service publishes an annual report each year, which gives an overview of the action taken on different parts of the road bodies. They also calculate what this means by reducing the number of injuries and killings from a statistical assessment. In the budget submitted by the Stoltenberg Government for 2014, the instruments put into use would reduce the number of deaths and damage to an average of eight persons. On the other hand, the arrests carried out due to additional appropriations from today's majority have meant that the figure rose to 11. So one was statistically shown that increasing investment on the road, as today's government and the majority of today do, is a marked increase in road safety. Statistically, one does not get the impression of setting up an extra photo box. That is a perspective one must have in this debate. The mid-point enhanced marking has been mentioned by several. Yes, we have increased the mid-point remark by approx. three times as much road as originally planned. We've built 50 pst. more handrails than planned. Then we have - to get into what's the theme - the distance-ATK. We have said in the government statement that it is an instrument we will evaluate and evaluate. There's been an assignment for TØI. They've done a job. This does not mean that they are doing the government's job. We have recently carried out an evaluation and thought in our plans that this evaluation would be part of the Road Safety Communication. There is also a background for us to say no to the request that has been received, simply because it was an evaluation process and therefore too early to conclude. When Stortinget proposes to conclude now, of course we will follow it and conclude in advance also in the traffic safety notice. I remember that there is the distance-ATK in place 23 places in the country already, and there are regular photo boxes around 300 places. After my assessment, the route ATK, when adopted, will be used where the Road Administration believes there are professional reasons for it. This means that the Road Directorate will have the operational role to play in making those assessments. I don't want an approach where we put out photo boxes instead of repairing the road where road repair is needed, but in tunnels that are in good condition, photobox can be what gives additional road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3315	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3318	It is good that there is a movement on the part of the Minister in opening up the route ATK, because there is a new message. As has been said by several people here, the death toll has fallen, fortunately, and in 2014, as was also said, we came down to 147 killed and 674 seriously injured in traffic. So far, that's per May, there were 41 people killed -- against 57 last year. It is good that we are on the right track here, but if we are to achieve the goal set in the National Action Plan, we need to put all the measures in place to succeed. TØI have analysed this, and in their last magazine, SOCIETY, they say that if we are to achieve the 2024 target, we must decide on a stronger commitment to action. In the setting we say 30 pst. of the measures shall be physical measures and 70 pst. road traffic and vehicle measures. I wonder why the Minister will not use one of the measures that has been documented to have a significant impact?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3323	As I have said in many debates with the representative Juvik and written in a letter to the committee, this is something we have not rejected, but we have said that we have it for evaluation and assessment. As I said in my post, it will be a natural grip to look at in the large traffic safety message. We have, as I also mentioned, prioritised the grips that unfortunately have been deprived in the past. There are several checks on wagon trains – given the debate on dead trailers that we have had in this room many times, we have quadrupled the checks. We have increased intensive road maintenance, which is one of the best road safety measures. We've tripled the number of miles with an enhanced midpoint observation. NRK Østfold had an article in February of the year when Vegvesenet said that now there was going to be a reinforced mid-point remark on a road map there. That would increase traffic safety by 60 pst. That's more than a photo box will do. Therefore, I would like to say that what we have done in total has been focused on getting as much money back as possible and the road safety perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3328	The minister did not answer the question. The question concerns something that we're really wondering about, and that's why you don't want to use an instrument that we know has great effect. It is well and good that the other measures are put in place, and that is where we fully agree with the Minister. As I have also said in previous debates, it is to open doors. But then you don't want to use a tool that you used as late as 2009, which you see has a lot of effect, and you ask for time to evaluate. I guess that's good. You've been evaluating. It's almost a year since TØI delivered its report that said this has a great effect. Both Safe Traffic and the UP agree. Yes, I really don't know about anyone who says this doesn't have much effect, other than the minister, who for some reason won't use this tool. As I said, it is not useful to control the trails at Svinesund if the problem is high speed in the tunnels in Møre and Romsdal. So I ask again, and wonder, why is the minister opposed to using this tool?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3333	It does not help to make prewritten lines where one says that one did not get an answer to the question, when it was just that one received. The representative Juvik was told – and it is also written in a letter to the committee – that this is a topic we have had for evaluation, we see it as an instrument in the communication on road safety. That's the answer. So one can often wonder when the Workers' Party in opposition says that they're very much for what's happening on road maintenance, and that they're very much for what's happening on the control of trailers. I think that's very welcome, but this isn't a new issue. This is not a new theme. I note that the effort that is now taking place takes place only after a new majority has arrived in the Grand Duchy, which has different priorities. The figures from the annual report of the State Road Administration show a marked increase in the impact of the measures taken in 2014 and compare the Stoltenberg budget proposal and the adopted budget, and then I have nothing to be ashamed of.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3340	As I said in my post, I think there are many different measures that need to be taken before reaching the road safety targets. It is not useful with one, and it has different effects, such as: The representative Grøvan pointed to. My question to the Council of State is, When can we see that this is being used? We know that there are some people who have sought and received no because they want more time to assess it as a response to an action plan and road safety notification. When is it possible to initiate these projects where there is local consensus, the County Council wants them and the State Road Service or the Road Directorate believes that there are good actions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3347	It is said that there are some applications that have been rejected. In fact, we have had one application that we have dealt with – one application. No application has been made concerning fv. 170 e.g. So a debate has been launched that this is an action that has been asked for a number of places and that they have received no. In fact, one place has asked for it. The reason they got no was simply, as I said in my post, a process we had to evaluate and evaluate the situation. We thought it was wrong to conclude with yes. If they now apply again with the decision taken by Stortinget, the matter will of course be re-examined. What I outlined in my post was that we would leave to the Directorate of Roads to make the professional assessments, and then it is up to those who believe that they have sections that should be assessed, to send an application to the Directorate of Roads now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3352	I thank you for the last clarification on how the Council of State intends to follow up on this. I have to admit, however, that I do not understand that the Workers' Party is receiving an answer as to why it has been critical to implement this, but I respect the fact that the Council of State says that this has been part of the evaluation ahead of the Road Safety Communication. Now there's going to be a change in this, and it's easy to relate to. My question is two-part. When the counties, the different regions, those who think it makes sense to do this, are going to apply to the Directorate of Road – will they first experience that the guidelines that apply today are those that underlie the treatment of the Directorate of Road, i.e. the guidelines that were in place before the Council of State stopped this? Secondly, is it necessary to balance this with other measures, in other words, that there is money available to do this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3361	It's always like having a used crown, it doesn't exist in other areas. So one will always have to prioritize something else to set up multiple photo boxes. The Directorate of Roads will have to make the assessment of whether they believe that the route covered can actually get an instrument through the route ATK, which results. It's important to emphasize that 54 pst. reduction in the number of fatalities relates to individual sections. It is not that if you have a route ATK on all roads in Norway, a number of deaths are halved. Not so many people are killed in traffic because of the speed that the calculation had gone into jump. So this has to be viewed in the individual place. Therefore, the overall impact of road safety work will be an assessment of both the percentage and the extent of its effects. One gets more power if one manages to reduce the risk of traffic fatalities by 10 pst. and in the case of all, than if one reduces traffic fatalities by 50 pst. and 1 pst. by those on the roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3370	I have great sympathy for the fact that the Council of State will look at several measures. What I have not understood is why you have chosen to prioritize this for a period of time – now it is to be included in the portfolio again. If you look at the question of what's most important for the money, as the Council of State said, you can take different road safety measures against each other — for example. constructing motorways, such as Bård Hoksrud in its time throughout its opposition existence, drove on and argued for as a solid road safety measure. Then it is clear that for 1 km of motorway you can get quite a number of accident-prone distances with distance ATK. That's why I'm concerned about correcting the impression that the Council of State is trying to create; that it won't be a significant outcome if you get the distance ATK in place. Yes, it will. For example, in the case of the mentioned fv. 170, where eleven people have died since 2000, about every two years you will save a life if the distance ATK works as efficiently as it is here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3378	The last thing I think is a point of view, so I don't know exactly how to answer it. But I would like to point out that in the case of motorways, it is probably right that from a road safety perspective it will be more expensive than just setting up photo boxes. But when we build a motorway, we also get increased visibility and reduced travel time, so society gets a lot of gains, and a lot of motorways are actually socially profitable. So you have to look at the different grips again. I'm pretty sure people who've traveled on both E6 through Eastfold and E18 through Westfold, that means getting motorways in place on those routes has been one of the absolute best road safety measures available. Once again, when we look at the State Road Administration’s 2014 annual report, we see that the additional grips that today’s government has done give a statistical impact on road safety. It is about having a wide portfolio of measures. I record that the opposition has been suspended in a single measure. Now you get it into place. However, we will have great emphasis on the other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3387	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3392	From an accident perspective, 2014 was a historic year for Norwegian transport policy. We have to go all the way back to the beginning of the 1950s to figure out so low numbers for the number of casualties and hard damage. Of course, this is a happy and very good development, especially in the light of current congestion. Today there are about three million cars in Norway, but in the early 1950s there were hardly any cars on the roads. So far in 2015, accident figures continue to go downhill. It is interesting to note that such historically low figures of serious traffic accidents were achieved at the same time as the Right-Fremskritspart government stopped the development of the route ATK and used the resources of other road safety measures. What does that show? Well, it shows that roadside measures are most likely to have a better impact than ATK. Within Norwegian transport policy, we have implemented a number of measures to reduce the accidents. I can mention some – such as the repair of side terrain, the focus on driving behaviour, mid-drawing works, width expansion, double yellow barrier line and rumbling fields. Only such a simple but ingenious measure as a rumen field and more yellowing has shown up to 40 pst. reduction in meeting accidents. The best concrete example of reducing the serious accidents without the use of ATK is Rv. 2 Kongsvinger – Sweden. Right Party Government ATK stopped and zero vision has already been achieved. On that route, a number of measures have been taken to reduce the accidents, including: width extension, reduced speed, spacer field and double yellow barrier line. I think there is already more than enough regulation, restrictions, control and monitoring in the Norwegian community, and that the use of ATK is trotting across the limit of acceptable control forms. However, if ATK is to be used first, the assessments should relate to sections where there are really many serious personal injury accidents. There will be errors if the ATK is gradually to be used as a general surveillance measure, regardless of whether there are many serious accidents or not on the route in question. I would like to challenge, for example, representatives such as Eidsvoll Holmås of SV, Juvik and Myrli of the Workers' Party, representatives of the Christian People's Party and, in particular, Raja of the Left, which is a party that I have at least perceived as being occupied by freedom and not by massive control, regulation and monitoring: is the intention of the proposal as it is written, namely that ATK should be used on particularly vulnerable sections, or is it to introduce even more general surveillance also on sections where there are scarcely accidents?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3407	Someone's trying to make a story that we're going to stroke beyond a lot of control boxes, whether it's distance ATK or photoboxes. We have not read the proposal and our reasons. What we want is that we can still use this tool as one of several means of achieving the ambitious goal we have jointly set by 2024. Last year, as I said, 821 people were seriously injured and killed in traffic. We've combined made a measure that it's going down to 500 in 2024. In the last magazine they say that we do not reach this goal if we do not sharpen, among other things. the control measures. That means we need more control from the police, at the same time, the UP says that the route ATK is a good addition to assist them. That is why it is not the way the Minister and the representatives here are trying to say that we should monitor as many people as possible in this country – on the contrary. It is actually checked out that this is not about monitoring. When you run past the first photo box, a picture is taken, and when you run past the second, it is. Before it is stored on the hard drive, it is checked if you have exceeded the speed limit. If you don't, the picture is gone – spread to all winners, to say it like that. It has been found that this is not a point, and I think it is strongly supported that the Left agrees with this. Stretching ATK is an action against speed. As the representative of the Christian People's Party said, reinforced mid-pointing, which is a very good move, is primarily against inattentiveness and fatigue. Verification of vehicles is another general measure. No one in this room opposes any of these measures, except that two lots are opposed to one of the measures that are an important instrument. Although the minister tries to get away from it, speed is an important reason. High speed, or too high speed according to conditions, has been said to be contributing cause in fact 44 pst. of the fatal accidents. Then it's important. Although the minister tries to talk away from the fact that he has stopped Akershu County Municipality in the case of fv. 170 – because he said that if he had to do something with the signs, he would do it – he does not want that distance. He can't talk away from today. I know – because the committee has been travelling around – that several states would like to use this important tool, but they do not, of course, apply for it when the minister has said that there is no point in applying.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3422	The case concerns the proposal of representatives to join the route ATK on special accident routes and in longer tunnels. The council had five minutes of speaking time, and I took the time. When there was one minute left, he started talking about distance-ATK. He spent the first four minutes talking about other measures. I think I know why the government party has been so skeptical about this, because I've read the government statement, and it says they don't want the distance ATK. If you make such a statement, you must try to deliver. But what's in the government statement, as I see it, is that one takes note that it's going to be evaluated. What we have been saying is that it has our evaluations and that the effect of this has been demonstrated by the percentage of the reduction in serious accidents and fatal accidents which are plus/minus 50 pst. on the particularly accident-protruding routes. I think it seems promising that the Council of State says, as I understand it, that one here will listen to the Directorate of Road when it comes to where to put this into action. So a little bit to High Jensen from the Progress Party, who challenges several named representatives. I wasn't mentioned, but as the representative Sverre Myrli was challenged and he's in a NATO meeting now, I might be able to answer for him. It turned out that one would obstruct freedom and that it was massive surveillance. I have to say, I don't think of this as such. I live and live and drive a car a lot in the West, and although I have not experienced it myself, I have suffered some very bad accidents. Then I imagine that young people are running on the road that is not very good. They can't pass and can't run so fast. Then they come into a tunnel, like an underwater tunnel that is quite bone, and then they give on something so much -- not always, but it hands -- and loses control and disembarks into the mountain wall, and more people get hard hurt, and unfortunately more people are killed too. I imagine that this could be a measure that can really put a damper on that type of activity on such distances, and can prevent us from getting these terrible accidents that also happen pretty blindly. I expect this to be introduced, not everywhere, but that we will have it implemented where necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3433	Now the Left's representative has left the Chamber. I was going to challenge him a little bit, considering that the Left has now said that they want to make a proposal for a week on privacy and surveillance in the transport sector, but I'm going to leave it. We'll have time to debate it later. I noticed that someone would replace four fields and a safe road and replace it with an increased use of the distance ATK. It's getting a little too simple, and that's not the way to go, we mean. However, the fact that route ATK can be used in tunnels is absolutely important to assess in the road safety message to come. That is also what we point out that it is coming and that it should be seen in the context. It may be a measure necessary in individual tunnels, and I share the view expressed here by many that it should be assessed especially in tunnels where one cannot have normal traffic control. But then it's also referred to speed, that most accidents are about speed. That's actually not quite right, because it's not just speed that's a factor in the statistics available, an in-depth analysis of road traffic fatalities done by the State Road Service – no. 196. I'm taking the 2012 numbers, which are the last ones. Of factors related to road users in the proportion of fatal accidents, inability to drive constitutes 60 pst. High speed after conditions or well above speed limit is 28 pst. Noise affects 24 pst., fatigue and sleep requirements 19 pst., disease 9 pst. and suspicion of self-selected accident 6 pst. I think we have to bring those numbers with us too, and then it's too easy just to run on one action. We have to see the whole thing, we have to see the width, and that's what I think the Council of State will come back with in the road safety analysis. Then we'll discuss it when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3444	I'll be brief. I'm going to make four short points. One is because I was challenged if we want distance-ATK as pad hats all over the country. The answer to that is no. We want it in line with the guidelines, on particularly vulnerable routes where speed is suspected to be a major cause of the fatal accidents. That's the one. The second is that I could imagine asking a question to the Progress Party. It seems that several agree on the figure 28 pst, which is the last, updated number of the share of accidents where speed is the main cause. Then the question is, what is the Progress Party going to do to reduce the number of people running too fast? We've come up with the distance-ATK. Attitude campaigns in the past have been very effective. Stretching ATK is an effective tool. What is the Progress Party coming up with to reduce the number of people who die because of high speed? What does the Progress Party do to reduce the number of people running too fast, that is, rough drivers? The third is about a question Åse Michaelsen messed up a little bit, and Solvik-Olsen was also into it, that is. the question of taking 1 km of motorway and instead using it for route ATK. You can get tens of miles of distance-ATK for the price of 1 km of motorway. I don't necessarily tell you to do it. I just pointed out that if you look at what kind of action you're going to get the most money back if you're going to do something about road safety, as the Council of State used as an argument, it's not obvious that the way you spend money today is the most effective. The latter concerns the challenge of the Council of State. I remember that in one debate he once said that I should drive more cars if it was such that I should understand how photo boxes work. Well, I like to challenge the Council of State to a duel about which of us has been driving on most of the country's road sections, but I think I dare say so that through all my time as a driver sees that speed is contributing to creating really dangerous situations in many places, and that if more people had kept the speed limit, we would also have avoided quite a number of accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3455	The representative, Kjell-Idar Juvik, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3458	I don't need any more time. That's a number. At least everyone agrees that speed kills, and is an important cause. To refer only to the national action plan: when it was presented and addressed, figures were used from the report to the State Road Service accident analysis team. It states that the causes of fatal accidents mainly include such factors as: ‘High speed according to conditions/good above speed limit 44 % Inability to drive 53 % Noise impact 21 % Fatigue/sleep 14 % Disease 11 %’. Of course, many fatal accidents have several causes. So you can't sum this up and get 100 pst. But there's no doubt that high speed is an important factor, and the number 44 pst. is correctly quoted from the Road Administration when we created a national action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3478	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3481	I forgot a crucial point, and that is: two of the party representatives have been up in the pulpit today and said that they will then consider this as a measure in tunnels. But that is not what we are adopting today. What we are adopting today is: ‘The Government and the Directorate-General for Road Transport are asked to grant route ATKs on particularly accident-prone routes, in line with professional recommendations and established guidelines.’ Very well known, there is no delimitation in the established guidelines — that this can only be used in tunnels. On the contrary, there are some tunnels and even more sections, which are not tunnels, where there is route ATK today. I assume that the government is not doing anything that restricts the number of places you can place this, but is using established guidelines and professional recommendations, as the Storting will adopt today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3494	I just want to say briefly – as I also mentioned in the previous article today – that when it comes to reducing the number of fatalities on the roads, I mentioned, among other things. Side-terranean improvement, focus on driving behaviour, mid-carriage, width extension, double, yellow barrier line and spacer field. These are good measures, which have also led to the fact that – without the use of ATK – we have already achieved the zero vision on Rv. 2 between Kongswinger and Sweden. This is probably the answer I can give to the representative Eidsvoll Holmås on the question he asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3501	The representative Åse Michaelsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3504	I was challenged by the representative Eidsvoll Holmås as to what the Progress Party is doing. We do a lot. And one of the best things we can do is to have safe roads — safe roads that prevent meeting accidents, safe roads that protect individuals — and stricter penalties for crime. Then it's an important element that we haven't really discussed here, but that will come. Young people aged 18 to 22 years are the most represented in accident statistics. Here we look forward and have proposed in this room, for example. closed track – where one can try, get tried on how a car behaves, not least get an attitude to this with speed and also rush – better driving training, involving the schools in this, supporting different organisations, etc., who are working precisely with awareness-raising work. I could probably have continued with more – I see the time going on – but we will come back and discuss this in connection with many, many other things later, to the autumn and to the winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3511	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 11 and 12 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3541	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who would have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3548	There are two proposals for representatives we are discussing today, after they have been discussed by the Committee on Transport and Communications. One is from the representative of Rasmus Hansson to give priority to public transport and bicycles in front of capacity-enhancing road projects in the metropolitan areas. The proposer addresses several issues related to large population growth in metropolitan areas and traffic management plans in these areas. The proposer writes: ‘Although the Storting expressly decided to include traffic growth in public transport, bicycles and corridors, the rapporteur notes that road authorities are still planning a number of capacity-enhancing road projects in metropolitan areas.’ The representative has made five proposals, which I do not choose to refer to, but which I expect will be well-informed in the debate. The Committee refers to the objectives already adopted in the EEA to include the growth of passenger transport in metropolitan areas with public transport, bicycles and corridors, and it assumes that the government will take this into account in the work on the revision of the national transport plan. This is a prerequisite for both reward agreements and urban environmental agreements. An overall committee assumes that in all reward agreements and urban environmental agreements, it is assumed that passenger car transport in urban regions will not increase. The Committee then clarifies that the commitment to public transport, bicycles and corridors should not mean that all planning of road projects in metropolitan areas can be stopped. It is noted that the overall road network has a standard which enables streets and roads in residential areas to be decommissioned, urban areas to be developed and to guarantee good accessibility for goods transport and other commercial traffic that are important for a city. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, refers to budgetary agreements concluded with the possibility that urban environmental agreements may have up to 50 pst. State funding, while the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party and the Centre point out that there is no 50 pst restriction in the national transport plan. financing of individual projects and promoting the following proposals: ‘In line with the current national transport plan, the size of the budget will allow the government to enter by more than 50 pst. financing of individual projects for the development of public transport through the urban environment agreements and the urban packages.’;» In this context, the Labour Party will refer to the 2015 national meeting where it was decided that the State can cover up to 70 p.m. the investment costs of individual projects for the development of public transport in major cities. There will also be proposals from the Member of the Left, whom I believe will also be duly highlighted in the debate. Then go to the next representative proposal. This is the bike proposal by the depositors Abid Q. Raja, Ketil Kjenseth and Ola Elvestuen on the increased development of bicycle infrastructure. The proposers are busy making it easier for people to make green choices in everyday life. Smart and accessible bicycle infrastructure is, in the Committee's view, an important contribution to this. The Committee shall promote a unanimous proposal: ‘The size calls on the government to decide and to propose greater flexibility in the design of bicycle roads, fields and tracks.’ Then a majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, have promoted the following proposals: «The Government, in cooperation with the county councils, is asked to examine and submit proposals to ensure that the development of bicycle infrastructure is given a higher priority.» And... ‘The Government is asking for measures to be taken by the government for increased use of electric bicycles.’ The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party and the Centre believe that increased cycling provides better accessibility, better environment, more societal benefits and, in addition, promotes the following proposals: ‘The Government is asked to continue the scheme for walking and cycling paths’. With this I address the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind. I hope it became transparent enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3603	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has taken up the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3606	We are discussing here two representative proposals on cycling policy. I would like to thank the case rapporteur for the good organisation of the cases. The first proposal is from the Green Party, document 8:114 S, to give priority to public transport and bicycles in front of capacity-enhancing road actions. The Green Party has promoted a number of proposals of this kind, but the party has a justification for its proposals which make it almost impossible to support the proposals, even though the wording of some of them could obtain broad support. In addition, the proposals have major economic implications and are far from being the subject of most budget proposals. An overall committee clarifies in its opinions that public transport, bicycles and corridors are not intended to put an end to all planning of road projects in metropolitan areas. It is important that the overall road network has a standard that allows both roads and roads in residential areas to be unloaded, to develop urban areas and to guarantee good accessibility for goods transport and other commercial traffic. The second proposal is from Abid Q. Raja, Ketil Kjenseth and Ola Elvestuen on the increased development of bicycle infrastructure, Document 8:115 S. The government is working on a lot of what is proposed. With regard to the costs of the projects, the State Council of the Ministry's reference to the case observes: ‘The Code and the Road Standards are based on knowledge and experience from Norway and other countries. In general, some of the standards are being built in Norway. However, the government wants to focus on costs and opportunities for even better use of resources and assesses the potential for doing so. In this context, it may be appropriate to consider different requirements in today’s road standards in order to achieve lower development costs and time-use.’;» The state road service also recommends a more focused approach to the right choice of type of installation. This can bring great savings. Measures that significantly improve the use of existing street networks have consistently lower costs than building new ones. Examples include: increased use of bicycle fields in streets increased use of streets by 30 km/h and mixed traffic in urban and residential routes instead of own separate walking and cycling routes more facilitating cycling towards the direction of travel in one-way streets better signage of recommended bicycle routes marking of bicycle boxes in light controlled crossings better operation and maintenance, in particular winter time; These are interesting feedback. The costs of bicycle paths have exploded in recent years. So it's important to look at how we can get more kilometers by bicycle for the money. The Right-wing Party therefore supports this Left-wing proposal. In the case of electric bicycles, I will again refer to the Council's feedback, and I quote: ‘I believe that increased use of electric bicycles can contribute to both better health and the environment as well as increased road accessibility in major cities. That is why I am in favour of investigating measures to increase the use of electric bicycles. It would be natural to assess this in the context of the ongoing work on the revision of the national transport plan.’.» In view of this, the Right and the Progressive Party believe that the intention of the Left proposal has already been respected. The government has committed itself to 50 pst. State financing of rail and bus routes in metropolitan areas. This is an important incentive for more public transport in these urban areas. It is also worth noting that the reward scheme for pedestrians and cyclists, introduced from the current year’s budget, is a scheme that can be applied for by all counties and municipalities. I have some knowledge of the county's finances and priorities. It seems a bit strange that in a majority comment in Document 8:115 S for 2014–2015, the government, in cooperation with the county councils, is asked to investigate and submit proposals to ensure that the development of bicycle infrastructure is given a higher priority. I would say that there is no lack of will in the counties to prioritize bicycles. You need money to do that. The main challenge is that the counties are struggling with massive maintenance delays on the county road network and a cost explosion on the construction of the bicycle road network. Increased funding for county roads and the reward scheme for bicycle paths are probably the most important measures for the counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3657	It is important to take care of soft road users such as cyclists and pedestrians. We know that there are more walking and cycling paths being built than ever in our country, and it will increase road safety, that is, if the cyclists use the forms of bicycle paths or bicycle paths being built. We are pleased that all municipalities and county councils can apply for funds to build more walking and cycling paths in our country, a subsidy scheme for walking and cycling paths provided by the government and the cooperation parties, which will help to increase construction. I'm referring in this context to Prop. 1 S for 2014-2015. But we know that most cyclists don't use walking and cycling paths when they travel in traffic. Then we have to stop a little bit and think about whether we're spending the money correctly. If the walking and cycling paths we are currently using do not work in Norway, it will have to be modified, either by the way we build walking and cycling paths or by the traffic rules for cyclists. I drive a car with my heart in my throat, especially in Oslo. The cyclists run across and across, on the red light and on the pavement, towards the direction of travel – yes, they feel like they are running on all four sides of the car. But they rarely drive on a bicycle path or on bicycle-marked fields in the roadway. That they dare, I think. For me, it seems like most people who dress on a bicycle and sometimes also a bicycle helmet, change their personality and think that all kinds of cars and walking should adapt to the bike list. I've witnessed many accidents, two in particular, and it's been cruel. Going to work is actually more dangerous because of cyclists than because of cars. Me and many with me who have walked on the pavement have had angelic action. You think you're safe when you walk on a pavement, but often it's as far as you avoid being driven down by cyclists who drive on a pavement at high speed. Maybe we also have to think about the walk and see if we have to forbid cyclists to drive on the pavement, or at least have speed restrictions and mandatory use of ringing bells to prevent such accidents. We must not forget in all this work with bicycles that it is actually also healthy to go, to go to work and school, that someone prefers to go, and that walking is soft road users. When we talk about walking and cycling paths, we often forget about walking, and that's why I'm taking this up right now. As I said, it is important to build walking and cycling paths. It is important to protect the soft road users, and I cannot say that enough, as in my opinion, especially the small ones who are on their way to and from school. Therefore, it is particularly important to make the right choices about the type of plant to be built. We have to build something that is used, otherwise we throw away the money and could only build a pavement for walking or for those who are jogging. We have to provide both for adults and children, for those like cosy bicycles, and for those who drive at the same speed as the cars. That is why I am pleased with the proposal where the Stortinget asks the government to investigate and propose greater flexibility in how bicycle paths, bicycle fields and tracks can be designed in the future. This is what it becomes important to do, both to get more people to ride, and also to make sure that those who want to use the apostles' horses can go in the usual way as in Adam's time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3674	First, a few words to the proposal of the representative Hansson. The proposal addresses some important issues. Basically, this is about how to organise the cities of the future, how they will work, how to meet the growing transport needs. While taking environmental considerations into account, we must also ensure good performance and air quality. Population growth has consequences for planning, expansion and how we dispose of land in our cities. This must include, inter alia: be built closer around the collective node. It has to be invested in collectives, bicycles and times. At the same time, the car should also have its place in the city. I think it is important to note that the Committee clarifies very clearly that the planning of road projects in the metropolitan areas must continue, not stop, even if collective action is taken. The Committee will develop the urban areas and guarantee good accessibility for goods transport and other commercial transport. I would add that this must also apply to individuals – to those living in the cities. We need to have a good balance in the instruments. The car is also a necessary means of transport in an urban area. Restrictive measures must therefore always be balanced against the real and legitimate needs of the population for a car. The Christian People's Party is concerned that both families with children and others who really need a car should be able to live in our cities. The proposals of the Greens have many good intentions. There is a cross-political consensus on bets on collectives, bicycles and times. There is now a new practice to allow the State to contribute up to 50 pst. in grants for investment in major urban collective projects. This is something completely new with the new government and with the new majority. Now we have a new impetus in the transport policy, including in terms of collective investment in cities, and in terms of the urban environmental agreements, as the Green Party in its proposals mentions, important action has been taken. Urban environment agreements are now being implemented in a completely new way. Then we're going to raise the collective offer in the big cities, in close interaction between the state and the municipality where the state becomes an important co-player. But as I said, this does not preclude offensive action on the road – safer roads, safer roads. We need different tools, different offers depending on needs. The urban population must still be able to have a car where they live, but they must have the choice. It needs to be more attractive to choose collectively, to choose bikes and to be safer to walk. Then turn to Document 8:115 S, from the Left. The birch leg has become very popular in recent years. Bike interest is greater than ever. At the same time, it is less like bicycles in everyday life. This is due to poor cycle paths and road traffic hazards. In the last 20 years, the share of bicycle travel has been reduced. From 1992 to 2013, the proportion of bicycle trips decreased from 6,5 pst. to 4,5 pst. according to the Travel Practice Survey of the Institute of Transport Economics. It is unfortunately the case with bicycles that there are often many fine words from politicians. The will is not the same when it comes to heads and ears, but it's money and the practical implementation that we're going to measure. The Christian People's Party supports the proposals that are on the table here, which are good proposals from the Left. Better organisation of bicycle traffic in Norway requires differentiated policies with targeted efforts in several areas. The proposals that are now being adopted are part of a better cycling policy. At the same time, we must remember that a number of measures are needed. In particular, several continuous walking and cycling routes must be built. But in the case of proposal No. 1 to continue the grant scheme, we do not see the need to make a decision on it now. The scheme shall be evaluated after two years. It shall be continued, but it is always wise to measure the effects, to check whether it is properly arranged, if any, to make any adjustments. This grant scheme is important for the Christian People's Party. Municipalities and counties have a great responsibility to ensure good conditions for the cyclists, including: in land planning and by building continuous networks of routes and bicycles. That is why the Christian People's Party, in line with the priorities of our alternative budget and as we proposed in our alternative transport plan, proposed a state reward scheme for walking and cycling routes. The scheme shall affect transport planning in municipalities and counties and shall act as an incentive for better organisation for walking and cycling. I am pleased that this arrangement is now in place. Finally, in the case of electric bicycles, we in the Christian People's Party are positive to that. Finally, I would like to remind you that it is possible to get up the bicycle share. Look at Kristiansand! They've got the bicycle share of the total transport up to 10 pst. It's above the national target. This is an example of follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3706	I'll focus my article on bicycles. With regard to the first proposals concerning public transport, bicycle and road projects, I refer to the introduction of the rapporteur, who described the proposals that we are behind. The centre party is very pleased that the majority have gathered around the proposals launched by the Left on increasing the development of bicycle infrastructure. It is true, as many people have pointed out, that traffic growth in urban areas is to be done with public transport, bicycles and corridors. It has joined forces to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector and to improve the efficiency of land and transport use. Increased cycling provides better accessibility, better environment and has social benefits, especially in terms of better health. I am pleased to see that there is more focus on bikes around the whole country. We see that there is more to cycling tourism, that people can take bicycles or hire bicycles and bicycles from different routes. So in addition to a health gain, there's an environmental gain and a nutritional potential in it. I think that's positive. It is important to cooperate across the different sectors to facilitate a culture that makes cycling a natural choice of transport for more than today. It is important that you learn to ride early and have safe, good bike paths to get to and from school — perhaps even earlier than that in order to get it into a natural way, so that you enjoy it, like it and feel that it is a good choice. It is then important to facilitate this also by the State, with a system of grants for walking and cycling routes and by ensuring that county councils are able to give priority to this. It is right that the representative, Mr Igstad, points out that it is the maintenance piece that the county municipality needs to prioritise, and many county municipalities want to invest more in walking and cycling routes related to special school buildings. Then you have to give it priority and give them that opportunity so that they can raise it further. It is also important for the State to make proposals to increase flexibility in the design of bicycle roads, bicycle fields and bicycle tracks. Perhaps there are some simple steps that can be taken to establish more opportunities for good cycling policy than is the standard today according to state road safety standards. With this, I refer you to the proposals that were in the matter, the comments that are in both cases, and to the proposals on which the Central Party and the Workers' Party are united.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3721	Tomorrow I will travel from Stortinget to Lindesnes, because on Saturday I will cycle Norway along the way from Lindesnes to Nordkapp. The tour starts immediately after the session is over, and I hereby invite all my colleagues who want to join me to join me. I expect that no one will want to cycle the whole trip, but when I get to their local municipality, and pass a local municipality, you can hang on and show their love to bikes, you too. The box is located on the left.com. I would then like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Kjerkol, for his good and thorough work on both proposals. It is particularly gratifying for the Left that we are today considering the proposal for a representative on bicycles, and it is, of course, just as gratifying that it has a majority. An overall increase has agreed that traffic growth in urban areas will take place with public transport, bicycles and corridors. This has been agreed by the Storting to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector and to provide more efficient land and transport use. The left is concerned about making it easier for people to make green choices in everyday life. Smart and accessible bicycle infrastructure is an important contribution to this. It is therefore necessary to modify and adapt the instrument in order to make the bicycle more attractive as a means of transport. At the same time, the fall in the price of the electric bicycle market and in the winter adaptation of the bicycle offer a new opportunity to increase the bicycle share if the infrastructure is adapted accordingly. The cooperation parties Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left have put in place a state support system, which the state finances 50 pst. planning and development of bicycle paths and parking. Bicycles are also a central part of the negotiations on reward schemes and urban environment agreements in the larger urban areas. A good cycling network to and through the centre of urban areas and between residential areas, public nodes and workplaces should be part of the coordinated land and transport plans of those regions. A number of sites include: in Stavanger and Østfold, the requirements set out in the State Road Service Manuals prevent the efficient, smart and attractive development of bicycle infrastructure. Many of the requirements are cost-effective without increasing the quality and attractiveness of the infrastructure. In addition, the innovation and development of new solutions, such as elevated cycle paths, are hindered. Health-promoting transport solutions are win-win, both for individuals and for the environment. There are huge societal gains in building a society where it is easier to move, whether on foot or on bicycles. To facilitate increased use of bicycles to and from work, school and place of study, it may be appropriate to create door-to-door strategies for the use of bicycles. Good solutions for bicycle parking at public hubs can be an example of a part of such a strategy. With regard to the second proposal, I would first like to thank the representative, Rasmus Hansson, for promoting the proposal for a representative. We have had several cases for treatment within a short period of time that come within the theme of transportation and the green shift. In addition to greenhouse gas emissions, traffic growth contributes to significant local environmental problems in metropolitan areas such as NOX emissions, particulate matter and noise. There is a high socio-economic cost of driving while car traffic does not contribute to a positive and humane development of the centre. Recently, the Stortinget adopted more ambitious 2030 climate targets, reducing emissions from the transport sector in the order of 40 pst. by 2030. The high level of ambition makes it even more crucial to implement the size decision of 2012 to exclude traffic growth in the metropolitan areas of public transport, bicycles and corridors. I'll bring this up to the left's suggestion in the setting. In conclusion, I just want to say to the representative Kjerkol, who says that the cyclists are running a bit strange: those who have racing bikes, for example, don't like to ride within the front edge or as close as possible to it, even if it is a bicycle path. That's because not all municipalities are equally good at sweeping. When there's strained sand over there, the first thing that happens when you come with these thin racing wheels is that you puncture. So that's why we cycle into the lane, because we don't want to stand and patch the bike over and over and over again. This must be understood by the drivers, and the drivers must also learn to share the path with the cyclists. To ‘take’ us the cyclists with window washer fluid and run very close to us is not very smart to do. Finally, I am very pleased that the Left's proposals have a majority. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee and the Stortinget for the year that has passed. I look forward to my bike ride. It will be an election campaign, but above all a declaration of love for the bike as a means of transport, training equipment, and something that gives true open-air feeling and joy. Then I hope that I can inspire more people to ride more, and politicians around the country to make bike plans across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3754	The representative Abid Q. Raja has taken up the suggestions he referred to, and I think we can all wish for a good bike ride on Saturday. The next speaker is the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – and without a helmet.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3760	It's going to be with helmets, but just in the beginning. Does the president want me to take off my helmet?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3765	Yes, I want you to take off your helmet.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3768	Then I'll take off my helmet, and then I'll do it for you. If we're going to succeed in getting more people to ride, we have to think about the bike first in all our planning. That's why I ask the following question: is there anyone who loves to ride a bike here in the hall? Do you know that feeling of freedom about the spring when you run down a hill, rise up and stretch both arms out to the side and breathe in the spring, which whips freshly in your cheeks? Is there anyone here who loves to ride a condom suit – and then I look in the direction of Abid Q. Raja, who is not here right now – and turns off his bike suit and surprises non-principled everyday cyclists that condom cyclists ride without underpants? Is there anyone who loves to put your pants in your socks, put on your helmet and think that it would be best if your hair was short, so you don't get a helmet weed when you bike to work? There'll be room for all the cyclists in the future bike Norway, and then we'll have to set the bike only when we plan. In many places it's about removing cars, because in our cities it's a struggle for space, and if you remove parking spaces along the roads, you have the opportunity to build bicycle fields, then you have the opportunity to make arrangements for more bicycles. We have a disastrously low bicycle share in Norway compared to other countries we should compare with, and the reason is evident in particular. a survey in Oslo where people were asked, would you think to ride a bike if it was better organized for a bike? Then over half of the answer is yes, we could imagine that. But people feel insecure when they ride bicycles, and I understand why. On my way to Stortinget today, after delivering my daughter to the kindergarten, I was pushed out of the way by a car, which was just supposed to take account of the cyclists – and which just illustrates the point that the bicycle field is often not continuous: you come to a cross and there the bicycle field disappears from the cross. That's the kind of non-coherent planning you often see when you don't put the bike first. I want to focus on a couple of points. I think it's good suggestions, and we're going to support the vast majority of the proposals promoted by Abid Q. Raja and Rasmus Hansson, and I say thank you for your suggestions. But at the same time, I want to draw out a couple of extra things, when we first have to do a job of looking at electric bicycle betting and arranging for it. In the revised national budget, SV proposed to look at the possibility of providing support for a pilot scheme to incorporate electric bicycles into the urban cycle schemes, which are spreading in more and more cities. I think there had been one thing that had caused more people to taste electric bicycles, and it had made it possible to extend the urban bike systems to a much wider area. I also believe that looking at the VAT exemption, as we suggest, would have been a good way to make sure that more people get the taste of electric bicycles. The government is, of course, for tax exemptions in all sorts of other contexts, so it should be possible to look at it also in the context of electric bicycles. The second thing I want to say is that one of the things that emerged today in the media was that the most important way to get more people to choose collectively is to make sure that they have fewer parking spaces in the cities. And then I'll say, let's hit two flies in one taste. If you take care to reduce the number of parking spaces in cities, you can use that area to make bicycles. Then you get more people like bicycles and more people who choose collectively. Finally, I will say two things about congestion and motorways. One is this: I think it's good, the proposal promoted by the Workers' Party and the Centre – and we're going to support it – to increase the state's ability to grant up to 70 pst. support for collective projects through the urban packages. I think it's a little strange that the Christian People's Party and the Left do not share in supporting it, but they have given clear notice that they do not. In this regard, it is important to say, since the representative of the Christian People's Party was in that one should continue to bet on roads in the cities, yes, but remember this: The faster and wider the highway, the faster one can get in and out of the cities, the less one will succeed in his consolidation strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3787	After a week of debates on road, rail, climate and the environment, it has become very clear that this is a sector that is characterised by little plan and much chance. In cash, the Minister for Transport has rejected all demand for plans, objectives and obligations in climate and transport in Norway. The only thing we now know is that neither government, Minister of Transport, Minister of Climate Change nor bigotry has the slightest idea of how greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts will develop in Norwegian transport in the decades to come. The government refuses to have a bearing. However, for the specific transport projects, we know where the Stortinget has said that we should, through the 2012 climate agreement, say that: ‘The growth of passenger transport shall be taken with public transport, bicycles and corridors.’ [[...]] However, governments and road authorities are equally planning a series of capacity-enhancing road projects into the metropolitan areas. According to the State Road Service, E18 between Asker and Oslo will increase traffic across the city border from 110 000 vehicles per day to 170000 in 2030. New E16 from Hønefoss to Skaret will increase traffic across Solli Heights, from today’s around 10000 light vehicles per day to between 25000 and 34000 – and in passing will also rage one of Norway’s most important and strictly protected wetlands. The E18 in Telemark will increase traffic into Grenland. Extended E6 from Ranheim to Stjørdal will make car more competitive compared to trains, etc. Everyone knows that increased road capacity also increases traffic. This increase in traffic has also been introduced as a pre-requisite for these road projects — almost the sovereign contempt for the climate settlement of the Stortinge. But we also know that the opposite is true: the tunnel maintenance that has cut the road capacity of some sections of Oslo in the last few weeks shows what is happening. Less road capacity immediately results in fewer cars. People immediately find alternatives. The smaller road actually solves problems. On the new roads that the government wants to build, it's of course going to drive more and more zero-emission cars, but this argument would have been a little better if the government had a never so small measure of how much this will cut the road emissions – and when – instead of just making claims into the fog. Now we just know that new roads will give more cars, and that many of these cars will be fossil cars for a long time. So this is the government's climate policy in the transport sector, the same government that is going to negotiate to a commitment of maybe 40 pst. cut in Norwegian emissions over the next 15 years. And this is also the government's urban policy: a lot more cars into big cities and cities where there are already plenty of cars. What the cities and towns of the future need is, as you know, the opposite, in order to improve the quality of life and contribute to a green future. We have to take the area from the cars and give the area to pedestrians, cyclists and public transport, and people have to stop because of air pollution and particulate matter. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party have insisted this week that using billions for new motorways into cities does not at all mean fewer billions for public transport, corridors and bicycles. But Ole Brumm is known to have died quite a long time ago – we're going to have to give priority. In Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger, money is needed for the city train and superbus. Oslo is screaming for a new T-Bahn and railway tunnel and for a new T-Bahn to Fornebu. The State should fully finance rail infrastructure into the metropolitan areas and increase operational means of public transport through the urban environment agreements. We're still going to have roads in this country, but we're not going to have that many more. Therefore, the Green Party proposes to stop further planning of capacity-enhancing road projects for the metropolitan areas. And at the same time, we are happy that the Left has taken up two of our other proposals, which we of course support. This is as simple as complying with Storting's own decision in the climate agreement, and it's making cities and agglomerations that will be good to live in for more people further into the future. I would like to bring up the Greens' proposals with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3814	Then the representative Rasmus Hansson addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3817	I don't know if it's my dialect that's the problem when Rasmus Hansson didn't get the post I had in the hall here on Monday. I then said very clearly that the government has said that, in the context of the work on the national transport plan, a national climate strategy is to be established for the transport sector. Here gives the impression that you don't have any thoughts, any ideas, any plans or anyone wants to think about it at all. I'm also going to review some other things that show that today's government is doing a lot more than what was planned in the transport sector as such, but with a climate perspective. It's a collective effort. The reward scheme that supports the collective effort in the largest cities has a 30 pst grant. higher than that underlying the national transport plan. It means that more cities can bet more on collectives than they had thought just a little over a year ago. Today's majority have ensured that urban environment agreements are put in place, where it is not stated that the state can contribute to investment in collective infrastructure, as it says in today's National Transport Plan – where we need to correct the Workers' Party a little bit. In fact, the majority platform requires the State to contribute to infrastructure investments and the State to contribute 50 pst. There is a much stronger investment than in the national transport plan. Today's majority have said that the Fornebuban must be a stretch that is realized. The previous government talked about it as a possible distance. The last government barely talked about the Ahusban or the tunnel under Oslo. Today's majority have included in the current negotiations on urban environmental agreements with Oslo and Akershus, that an Ahusban and a tunnel under Oslo should be part of what a negotiator is about. So it's going to be more than just that. There are now over a hundred more train departures on the railway than it was just six months ago. Some of them were included in the schedules that have been under work for several years, but many of the departures came as a result of the fact that today's majority have given more money to buy trains, both train sets and several departures. A doubling of the number of departures on the Sørlandsbanen was something that came because there is a new majority. The previous government was proud that they were able to maintain a sleeping car on the night train between Stavanger and Oslo. Today's majority had doubled the number of daily departures. Work is now under way with a KVU, known as Oslo-Navet, a collaboration where the Swedish Railway Agency, Vegvesenet and Ruter together just show how collective action should enable you to take the growth of traffic with collective means of travel. This work is in progress, and it will be delivered on it. On the development of bicycle paths: if one looks at the results of the National Transport Plan 2010–2013, it has been realised approximately. 70 pst. Of the plans that one published each year in the budgets, one was 30 pst. lower than the own target values one set. For 2014, however, the result is that today's majority has realized 30 pst. more bicycle path than that announced in the 2014 budget. So that means that in practice we realize almost twice as much bike path as the red-greens had added. It again shows a bet. So we know that in the current year there is an additional investment on bicycles, not just that it was put up in the budget for a growth of 40 pst. more than what was planned last year, but one has also set up a reward scheme for bicycles, thanks to the Left and Christian People's Party, which now makes it 90 million. kr for distribution to cities and other places that have a bicycle strategy, and that money is distributed in these days to different places. Once again: a bet on a bicycle in addition to that in the national transport plan. I'm proud to be part of that majority and make sure that we realize this. For good cycling and more people who travel collectively, it is both about improving road safety and better urban accessibility, and it is about reducing emissions to the environment. In the work done on bicycles, however, it's not just about boasting about how much money a grant is, but it's about making sure that a sheep built the bike paths where they do the most good, that is, where you can convert as many drivers as possible to want to ride by making better use of them. Cycling is not just for those who are going to train for Birken, but it's about making bicycle a means of transport in everyday life, and then one has to make it easy and safe for people to choose bike. We therefore work with several municipalities to find better solutions at lower prices, simply giving municipalities greater influence in how cycle routes are established. I have contact with several municipalities now, where we are going to get a test project, and thus get some freedom from the State Road Service manuals just to bring down the cost level for several kilometres by bicycle paths.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3836	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3839	We have two representative proposals for collective action and cycling. There's a very big consensus about betting on it. The measures are very welcome, in particular the Left’s proposal on bicycles – to lift this. Then the Council of State goes to the pulpit and talks for 5 minutes about how amazing he is, and how hopeless it would be to get to the additions he's made, with another government. We in the Workers' Party have provided alternative budgets for both 2014 and 2015 – in 2015 we had 1 billion. kr more than the government by 100 million. kr more for bicycles. I wonder, does the Council of State think he's the rescuer of Norwegian cyclists? And: is that really what the Council of State says, that he believes he has increased the investment in bicycles beyond what is in the national transport plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3846	I think that's a slightly strange question. I don't think there's anyone alone who's a lifesaver for the cyclists. But I note that today's majority in Stortinget grants more money for cycling and cycling than what the previous government did. We're getting several kilometers of bike paths – so we're going to make sure people can ride. It is still the case that it is the individual cyclist who must make the choice and choose it as a means of delivery and means of transport in everyday life and for training purposes. So I think it's very interesting that the Workers' Party boasts of what they're paying, because it's obvious that they believe that the national transport plan they themselves put forward and boasted of in 2013 is not good enough. But I'm glad that this government delivers increased appropriations and several kilometers, not least the last – there's one get for the money, which tells something, not just how much money you've given. There we have a good account so far, but the job is far from done. Substantial efforts shall be made in the years ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3853	In his speech, the Council of State said that he has increased the investment in bicycles beyond what is in the national transport plan. My question to the Council of State is, Is he familiar with the national bike strategy? And how far away are you going to reach the goals of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3858	What I said was that we got a result that is 30 pst. above what was planned in 2014, where the previous government was largely 30 pst. lower than they planned for each year. The national transport plan has a four-year period and a 10-year period. How much we achieve in the different areas must be measured after the four years have passed. So we've had a significant growth in cycling activity compared to what it was added up to the first year from the last government. So that's how we're doing well. As I also said, we're far from the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3864	It is possible to miss most of the questions, but the truth is that it was cut in the cycle road allocations on the national road side of the budget presented by the Council of State. And thank me for having the Christian People's Party and the Left, which are environmental parties, and which force the Advance Party and the Right to invest more money on bicycle paths, railway and collective than they would otherwise have done. That's so good, but it's hardly anything the Council of State can take on income for its own commitment and its own investment in this matter. I have a very specific question relating to the point that the Council of State has also raised, namely the proposal for Decision I: ‘The size calls on the government to decide and to propose greater flexibility in the design of bicycle roads, fields and tracks.’ This is in line with what the Council of State has previously talked about. What does this mean? The bicycle field is estimated to be 6 pst. growth in the number of cyclists, while bicycle field with curbstone gives 25 pst. growth. Then I'm worried if it gets downgraded quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3878	Our goal is to facilitate more people wanting to ride. It is both about making safe roads and about making progress. Some places are security the most important factor. Elsewhere it's about making it easier, so people feel that they can get faster to and from work. It'll be part of the job that we have to do with the municipalities, because they know their people the best. They know best how the different travel routes are for people and will thus best be able to facilitate it. I think it is well deserved to give praise to the Christian People's Party and the Left. I also think that the previous government would want them to have such parties as supporting parties, because then they could also get better results in the eight-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3885	The last statement is so absurd that I won't even go into it. But I'm going to ask a follow-up question about bicycle fields, and what the council says about cities, because I'm concerned about exactly what the council says, that's to make city security easier. But does this mean that the work done by the Council of State in the area of flexibility will be presented to the Storting in a way that will enable us to deal with it? That's my one question. The second is a question that I have previously addressed in written form, which concerns the rules on compulsory withdrawal. There is a great deal of ambiguity about mandatory rules for cyclists. I'm sure that if we had put the members of the Committee on Transport around a table and given them a quiz of what the rules of veto apply between cars and cyclists who meet each other, we would get a lot of strange answers. I get that, because it's complicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3894	I don't think it's absurd to say that the Christian People's Party and the Left have got a lot, and they would probably have helped SV very well. At least we can show good results together, and that's what we get together, which is the important thing here. With regard to mandatory termination rules, it is a topic that has been discussed a lot, not just this year, but for many, many years. I record that the Cyclistese National Association and others have long wanted other mandatory rules without having been implemented. We had a recording conference on this topic just before Easter this year, precisely because we think it's important. I registered that the cyclists' representative there said this was the first time she was invited to the kind of recording conference during the many years she had been driving. I also feel that this is a sign that today's majority is concerned about the cyclists. You don't just talk about them, but you talk to them in a good way. I was in Utrecht the day before the cutthroat day and visited the Dutch city, which is one of the best cycling cities in the world. There was much discussion, both how to facilitate bicycles in cities and.... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3903	It was time for the line. It's in 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3906	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3911	Despite dialectic differences, I think I've got about what the Minister of Transport has said about greenhouse gas emissions and transport. He has said that he has not committed himself to and will not commit himself to any specific target for cuts in emissions in the transport sector. And most people will realize that such a painting is in a certain contrast to very concrete plans for completely concrete roads in a number of places. Instead, the council says there's going to be a plan. The question is then: can the Council of State at least confirm that this plan will provide emission reductions at the level of the government that will be agreed upon at national level once they have finally completed their negotiations with the EU on climate cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3916	I think we got confirmed that there must be a dialect problem here, or it's about will, because in the debate we had on Monday, I was very clear that we are going to work with the European Union to get a binding agreement on the climate side. So I didn't say I was against obligations. I said that while we are negotiating with the EU, and while we are working on it, it would be unnatural for each state council to go in and say that this is the commitment in a given sector. It is precisely the whole we are going to find together with the European Union, in order to take action to ensure that, in Europe as a whole and in each country as a whole, we get to the best possible climate action, so that we can reduce emissions. In it is that we have to reduce emissions in the transport sector. And as I have said, we are well placed in terms of rail, collective and bicycle investment, both in terms of appropriations and not least in terms of achieving goals. I am concerned about the overall results we get, instead of making it a debate about who promises the most in a debate, before an agreement is reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3923	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3928	What strikes me when I hear Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås and so far also Rasmus Hansson, is that they live in a slightly different world than we do when we talk about these problems. It has a very Oslo feel, where you have a city that has the largest collective share in the country: 80 pst. in the rush hour, 45 pst. the average. It's getting organized for walking and cycling, and you talk here about expressive cycling and not so much about cycling to and from school, because in Oslo you don't have to. You don't need school buses, because you live like that, so that it's kind of arranged for both cycling and going to school. But Norway is not like that. We talked about it so far on Monday: Norway is not even connected for public transport. We are a small country with few inhabitants, and we live scattered. That's not the way the world is, and you're not going far outside Oslo until you find that you have to focus on other things about walking and cycling. Then I want to take my own state, since I know it: In 2012, we made a bike strategy, an investment strategy for bicycles, and we concentrated on what we thought was important. It was the use of bicycles to and from schools, i.e. to secure the school path for children, i.e. within a radius of 3 km for children in primary school and within a radius of 6 km for children in secondary school. We went through all the municipalities in the county. We'll map the need. We ended up with a In retrospect, this has been examined in more detail and the number of school pathways that need to be addressed because they are extra dangerous. It was found that 78 measures had to be taken over a total of 90 km, where it was extremely dangerous, and 127 measures over 220 km on the county road network, which was medium-hazardous. If these exclusive measures were implemented, the first measures could be taken for 3 to 4 billion. kr only in Akershus. So it's a completely different world. And so here you sit as a representative of Oslo – Oslo is a very good country to be a representative from, but when you get outside the city border, the world starts to look different.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3935	I think it's special, what I'm saying now at the end, because I think it's important to bring out – as the Christian People's Party pulled out earlier today – that cities that choose to bet on bicycles succeed with it. So the majority of the country's population live in urban areas, and there's an excellent way to make bicycles. We have a lot to go on, and you see that all those who want to get it. But there's a lot of problems associated with it, because it's about land disposal in cities. Take, for example: everything you see around this town, in the Kristiansand Square, in the Bergen municipality or in Ålesund. In a lot of our cities we see that they're planned for smaller roads, and at that moment you start to say that here we actually have to make more space for the bike, it goes at the expense of something else. Then tough political priorities have to be made, and that is actually the most important thing that politicians have to do if they are to put their bikes first – it is not primarily to set billions of billions for cycling, although it is also necessary to achieve the goals we have. The crucial thing is that one actually finds the political will to give priority. Look around you here in Oslo, look around you when you go home wherever you live in Oslo, look at those places, and you will understand that as a cyclist you face challenges every day in this city. I also fully agree with the representative of the Progress Party who spoke of our having too bad a culture of bicycles in this country. Every day I have to admit that I see both cars and cyclists running on red light, and that violate traffic rules in a large monn. The only way to do this is to make sure that you get a critical mass of cyclists, and then you get a culture of bikes. But I fully agree that a lot of cyclists are doing. I just want to say one thing at a time. Since climate and climate objectives are part of the representative proposal from Rasmus Hansson, it is right to re-examine just a little of what we had in the debate on Monday. Ketil Solvik-Olsen says – as Rasmus Hansson says, but as Ketil Solvik-Olsen says he does not say – that he does not want to set any climate target for Norway, as long as Norway is negotiating with the EU. I would like to stress that this is the opposite of Mr Tine Sundtoft, Minister for Climate and Environment, who said at the European Committee meeting on 10 June. We know what the EU is going to do – either 35 pst. reduction or 40 pst. reduction in emissions from the non-quota sector. It's going to be the transport sector, it's going to mean that the transport sector will take that kind of goal, and it's actually possible to plan for it. But we're going to get back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3949	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 11 and 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3963	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3970	This case concerns the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Regulation No. 452/2014 laying down technical requirements and administrative procedures for air operations performed by third country operators. In the Transport and Communications Committee, a Joint Committee has underlined that an authorisation under the Regulation does not in itself confer on third country operators the right to operate in the EU/EEA territory. Operators must apply for traffic permits in accordance with existing aviation agreements. This means that for Norway, the Air Safety Authority will continue to have the final word. The government has pointed out that EASA will be able to make a more thorough assessment of aviation safety than the individual EU/EEA States have the capacity to do separately. EASA will have extensive experience in the processing of applications, which will in the long term provide the Agency with a better basis for carrying out safety assessments than individual national supervisory authorities can. By setting common air safety requirements, to be operated by EASA on behalf of all EU/EEA States, the regulatory framework could in the long term increase aviation safety in the EU/EEA area. The Committee on Transport and Communications has also shown that one believes that there is a strong need for common requirements for air safety. The regulatory framework could lead to an administrative savings for the Air Safety Authority in addition to the fact that the assessment by EASA could provide a very good basis for the assessment by the Air Safety Authority of traffic rights. The Committee has pointed out that the methods to be used for applications and studies will be more extensive than those practised in Norway today. A Joint Committee also highlights the importance of Norway taking advantage of its right to meet, propose and express its opinion on the EASA Board, so that Norwegian interests can be developed in a good way in the future. In view of the comments I have now referred to from the Committee on Transport and Communications, I will again point out that one here sees it as such that this inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the Regulation laying down technical requirements and administrative procedures for aviation companies will strengthen aviation safety in Norway, and it will also create a more efficient system that is more holistic, including in the context of the whole of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e3992	This case is about Norway going to give birth to a supranational body of which we are not a member, the independent EU agency EASA. Should EASA be able to verify and provide authorisation for the safety of third-country operators engaged in commercial air transport in, to and out of the EU/EEA area? The reason why the Central Party and the Socialist Left have its own comments in the Foreign and Defence Committee is not primarily due to the health and great scepticism of EASA cooperation – although it may also be present – but to the relationship with the Constitution. In five cases under the EEA Agreement in 1992, the size has transferred decision-making competence to EU bodies using the procedure under the second paragraph of Section 26 of Grundlova. The size itself suggests that such a transfer has its place in the so-called ‘little intrusive’ transfer of sovereignty. The central party is not in agreement with this legal basis because, for the first time, there is no support or any basis in the Constitution for its text; for the second, it is contrary to the Constitutional Law of 1962 as well as to the Constitutional Law system, and for the third, it is contrary to and undermines the decision-making procedure of the Constitutional Law § 115. In short, the ‘small-invasive’ transfer of sovereignty has no support in any legal source other than the Stortinge’s own practice in contravention of Grundlova’s clear words and purposes. We are outside the Storting's legitimate room of interpretation when it comes to Constitution. If the Stortinget wants to transfer decision-making competence without using § 115, the Stortinget must change the Constitution. The connection to the connection condition is the following: How can the Storting with simple multiples according to a rule that is not legal, do something explicitly forbidden in Grundlova § 115, even with three-quarters majority? This is what I am asking the Council of State to do well for today. In the light of my view and the view of the Centre, Stortinget does not make its current practice meaningful in the light of the conditions of membership of § 115. Neither the Constitutional Disbursements of the Ministry of Justice, the Government nor the Grand Duchy of Justice have attempted to explain why Constitutional Laws should allow the transfer of sovereignty to EU bodies, with the exception of non-statutory ones, which are controversial, so-called ‘small-scale’ transfers of sovereignty. Another question is: Would the Stortinget have been able to make today's decision under § 115? In connection with Norway's application for membership of the European Community, in the 1960s, the Stortinget received contributions from Professors Torkel Opsahl and Johs. Andenæs. Both concluded that the ‘closed’ condition required Norway to be represented in the international body on equal terms with other States. There is also a point of view that is clearly dominant in later legal literature. In Arne Fliflet's commentary version to Grundlova, it is simply stated that § 115 only opens up the transfer of decision-making competence to organisations in Norway are in or are in the process of becoming a member. The general principle of international cooperation is that states participate on a similar line, albeit with different participation in voice numbers according to population and the like. It is this EEA Agreement that is based on – equal representation – as all decisions directly affecting Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein are to be made by bodies where those States are fully and equally members – ESA, the EFTA Court and the EEA Committee. Looking at the preliminary work of § 115 from 1962, it seemed clear that the Stortinget then understood the word «closed» as a requirement for membership or participation on equal terms. Given this use of the word ‘closed’ in the pre-work, we must expect that the Storting had made a special comment about what they meant by the same word in Section 115. In addition to a broad agreement in legal literature, the elements imply that Norway must formally be a member of, or otherwise be represented on equal terms with, other States of the EASA Aviation Agency in order to be closed under Section 115. In other words, as long as Norway only has the right of meeting, proposal and questioning on the board of EASA — and much less so on the basis of Section 26 — the Stortinget may not transfer to EASA the decision-making competence of Norway. One might wonder how long the majority of population will continue to break the Constitution in their arduous drive to bring about EU integration. Where is the logic that requires three-fourths of a plural number to give away sovereignty to an organization we are a member of, while, as the plural suggests, that simple plural numbers are sufficient to give away sovereignty to an organization we are not a member of? I would like to deal with the proposal from the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4013	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4016	First of all, on the content of the regulation: this is a regulation requiring aircraft operators, i.e.: air carriers from non-EU/EEA countries need the approval of the European Aviation Safety Agency, EASA, in order to operate within the EU/EEA area. EASA shall ensure that third-country operators comply with the common European requirements for such operations. The authorisations of EASA will apply to the entire EU/EEA area. The authorisations replace the current regime, whereby third-country operators must obtain authorisation from each EU/EEA country in which they wish to operate. They're getting a clean security permit, it's not a traffic permit. They have to get it from every state to which they want to fly. There is no automatic means of obtaining a traffic permit, even if they have received a safety authorisation. In the case of the Constitution: Norway joined EASA already in 2005 by incorporating the EASA Regulation into the EEA Agreement. Norway thus agreed in 2005 that EASA will have a direct effect on Norwegian companies involved in the design and construction of equipment for the aircraft industry. While only a handful of such permits have been granted, it shows that the Storting has already agreed in 2005 that a supranational decision-making authority is sensible in relation to specific and strictly factually defined areas, such as aviation safety, and the Constitution allows it. So this is a practice that has been in force under the government of which Navarsete was part. That perception was actually repeated in Prop. 27 S for 2012-2013 under the red-green government when the Stortinget agreed to the inclusion of a new version of EASA Regulation into the EEA Agreement. It's a little strange that what is now suddenly problematic was quite fine when the party of Navarsette itself crashed. The starting point now is that one from an aviation safety professional perspective is associated with EASA in an area that gives a common approach across the EU/EEA area. That means, in sum, that one could have increased aviation safety in our part of the world. I think that is positive. There are no rights to fly to Norway, but there is a safety assessment that makes it safer to fly in Europe. I think that is positive. So this is an organ that is not very interventional, and then, with the consent of Storting, it can be adopted with the consent of the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution by requiring a simple majority. Air traffic surveillance will continue to be able to refuse the authorisation of operators to fly to and from Norway on grounds relating to the market situation. Air traffic control may also assess the assurances of the operator and one may refuse to operate in Norway when unforeseen safety concerns arise. This means that the Air Safety Authority has the possibility to sanction, even if it has received a safety authorisation, when a local authority considers that the situation so warrants. I am pleased that the Stortinge makes this decision that gives us safer aviation in Europe. There's nothing new in the way you decide, compared to what was adopted just a few years ago when the Senter Party had the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4033	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4047	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4052	I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation and support in the preparation of its comments. The proposal presented is anchored in an external quality assurance draft selection study, on the basis of which further development of the transport system is to be based on a step-by-step approach. In phase 1, priority is given to optimising the current transport system with the development of R & D. 36 Shadowstone – Skeleton beach and fv. 32 Gimlevieen – Augestadveien. In addition, industrial transport measures, pedestrian and cycle road development and public transport, urban environment and road safety measures are included. The aim of the Urban Package Grenland Phase 1 is to take the growth of passenger transport with public transport, bicycles and corridors, as well as to improve the conditions of business transport. There is local political support for an arrangement for partially toll-financed development of the Urban Package Grenland Phase 1. In addition, government, county and municipal funds will be provided. The overall economic framework for the Urban Package Grenland Phase 1 is approximately 2.7 billion. 2015-kronor. Urban package Grenland and project rv. 36 Shadowstone–Skelbretstrand is mentioned in the National Transport Plan 2014–2023. Urban package Grenland Phase 1 involves a significant commitment to the development of the collective offer. In the scheme submitted for local policy treatment, a total of 310 million were added. kr for public transport measures and 310 million. SEK for the operation of public transport services at the 2013 price level. The Ministry of Transport has concluded an agreement between the State, Telemark County Municipality and Porsgrund, Skien and Siljan municipalities of 215 million. kr in reward funds for better public transport and reduced car use in the period 2013-2016. With the exception of the municipality of Bamble, there is local agreement on the Urban Package Grenland. Bamble Municipality has not joined the proposed Urban Package Grenland Phase 1. During a visit Right fraction had in Telemark on 18 May, it was pointed out that rv. 36 Shadowstone – Skeleton beach was not a natural part of the urban package. In the proposal submitted, the Ministry has proposed to take this route out of the package and to finance it through State resources. That's a good solution. It is worth noting that it has been proposed locally that part of the toll revenue can be used for the operation of public transport. It was opened up in connection with Oslopackak 3. The Ministry is waiting to decide on this. Urban package Grenland Phase 1 is anchored in KVU/KS1 for Grenland, and the project rv. 36 Shadowstone – Skeleton beach is a priority in the National Transport Plan 2014–2023. The Ministry of Transport considers the financial assumptions underlying the package to be realistic and essentially recommends the local development and funding proposal. That's a good solution. The Ministry will return to the desire to use tolls for the operation of public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4071	It's a pleasure for me and for the Workers' Party that we now have completed the Urban Package Grenland Phase 1 in Telemark at Stortinget's next day of this session. This means that a longer, longer job can be started now. There has been strong local commitment in Grenland to address the area of transport that can make the region more competitive and increase the attractiveness of a region that is also growing. There is broad local political commitment both to the urban package itself and to the partial toll financing scheme. The funding page also includes state doctors, county councils and municipal funds. The transport objective of the Urban Package Grenland Phase 1 is twofold by covering the growth of passenger transport in public transport, bicycles and corridors and improving the conditions of business transport needs. The proposal now presented is anchored in an external quality assurance concept, on the basis of which further development of the transport system is to be based on a step-by-step approach. In this phase one priority on the road side is the optimisation of today's transport system with the development of Rv. 36 Shadowstone – Skeleton beach and fv. 32 Gimlevieen – Augestadveien. In addition, industrial transport measures, pedestrian and bicycle road construction and public transport, urban environment and traffic safety measures are included. A number of these measures are expected to have a beneficial effect on the region in the Urban Package Grenland Phase 1. Actions will contribute strongly to the development of a coherent walking and cycling network, cf. The debate we had here a little earlier, about bicycles. There will be much better access for public transport. Two major road projects will be carried out. Measures in the West Corridor will be important for improving the emergence of business in the urban community. Overall, these measures will have a beneficial impact on several target areas. There is a comprehensive Committee on Transport and Communications which supports the setting, and in the joint comments the Committee is concerned that toll collection must be effective and that the costs of collection and financing must be as low as possible. In addition, the Committee points out that lower costs could benefit drivers through lower bombing rates or shorter collection periods. These are the formulations that we from the Workers' Party also agree to, but I regret that the government party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have not joined the additional remark that if possible, lower costs should also be used to get more out of the project if local authorities want to do so. Much often happens during such a project, both in terms of technical solutions and on the cost side. Therefore, we felt that the opening had to be there, also in order to get more road and traffic safety out of the project if local authorities wanted this. But for all things – this is a happy day, not primarily because the Storting Transport and Communications Committee is united in one cause, but rather because Grenland with this gets the start of a long-term and forward-looking upgrading of the transport system, which will ensure that Grenland will also become an attractive region in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4094	Like the two previous speakers, the centre party is pleased that this matter is now coming to a decision. I still want to comment on two aspects. One is linked to guarantee liability, and the other is linked to financing. This is one of eight major toll projects presented by the Progress Party Councils during the last year. Grenland City Package means 2 billion. kr in tolls. In Aftenposten on 23 May 2013, the current Minister for Transport, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, said: ‘The amount of tolls will be small with Frp in government.’ During 2014, there are two Norwegian toll records — one unofficial Norway record. I dare to claim that 2014 was the year it was spoken – talked – mostly about cutting tolls. That means very little to the drivers. But it is also an official Norway record — an official Norwegian toll record. Out of answer to written question No. 1,081 shows that one in 2014 demanded 8.5 billion. tolls from Norwegian drivers. It's time to say that the Progress Party has been tolled. On 12 September 2014, the Council of State promised on the blog that there would be ‘a State guarantee’. The central party thinks this is a pretty good idea, because we think it is wrong that county councils and municipalities have to provide large guarantee amounts for the development of transport. In this case, Telemark County provides a guarantee of 800 million. kr. But in Meld. St. 25 for 2014–2015, On the right track, which was dealt with here in the Stortinget earlier, there is nothing about state guarantees, and there is no obligation to do so. That's weird. I understand that one before a election makes promises that one can't keep, but the Progress Party is not able to stop the promises, even if the elections are over. And there's quite a difference between writing something on a blog and making sure that it becomes the current policy. Policies have been adopted that matter, not big words in public space. With these comments I would like to say again that this is a good day for Grenland, this is a good day for Telemark. It is important to invest in public transport, it is important to facilitate the car, and it is important to facilitate a comprehensive transport system, for the benefit of the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4112	SV supports the proposal submitted. I think it's a good day for Grenland. Now I'm looking at the branch representatives, who show the thumb up here. But I have two comments and a challenge to the Council of State. One is that in this package there is a restriction on cars. It is essential if we are to achieve the goal that the Stortinget has decided that all growth in passenger traffic in the major urban areas – the Grenland area is one of them – should pass through collective, bicycle and gangways. Therefore, it is good that it is a condition of the reward scheme, but I am stunned when operating funds for collectives are something that is not met in the agreement here, but is something the department will decide later on. It would have been very good to get a more detailed statement on why not the Council of State already at the time of presenting the matter to the Storting will go in to say that this is important and proper to do. I would like to say from my side that I believe that one of the things that have made the Oslo package and the effort we have had in Oslo, to a success, is that we have been able to say, yes, it is actually the way that the citizens who choose to travel collectively get a better offer through the bet that lies here. It helps to give good carrots to make people go from driving a car to choosing collective instead. It's one of the things that originally gave a drop in traffic through the toll section, that I was inside in a previous debate, but that we unfortunately don't see is powerful enough, because there's a little bit of going up again, from the great decline that we had. I mean to remember that it was 8 pst. down at the beginning, and that it went up again now, and Istad mentioned the number 7 pst. That's what I said. We're going to have a discussion in the Oslo region. But my point is just to stress that collective effort and having resources for collective activity are really crucial to succeed if you're to have car restrictions inside as an instrument, and that's what we're going to have. That's what the people in Grenland, the politicians in Grenland will do, and we're going to say yes to that on Stortinget, and then it has to be followed up. From my side, I just want to say that we think it is right to spend money on the operation of public transport. At the same time, we would like to stress that it is important to look at what has been highlighted in the media today, namely that reduced parking in cities is an effective measure to make more people choose collectively, and it is also an effective measure to free up space for bicycles and thus hit two flies in one taste. One final comment: I notice that the government invites us and the Stortinget to make decisions to reduce the interest rate if the local politicians want it. In this way you get a lower price through the tolls, but you pay more money as a driver in total, because you spend longer time paying off the amount. This is an old debate that we have had in the past, but it is only necessary to remember that by doing so in the way the Minister of Transport invites, and as the Stortinge decides today, it becomes more toll to pay for the drivers, not less, as it may seem when you run through the toll station.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4123	For the government, it is important to build better roads, to create a better urban environment in cities and to facilitate better public transport and to make it easier to use your feet or bike in people's daily travel. The Grenland urban package is an instrument for achieving many of these things. It has been adopted locally by Telemark County and by the municipalities of Porsgrund, Skien and Siljan. Bamble has chosen to stand outside. The aim is to make the border area more attractive, both for those living there and for business, and to create better accessibility, better local environment, increased road safety and simply a better everyday life for those who live and live in the area. I am proud of the work that has been done. It shows a good compromise between the government parties, where we get a lot going in place, but we do it with less tolls than what was meant. In the layout that was originally designed, 16 toll stations were added. Now it's going to be 13. One of the roads that was mainly planned for toll financing is now receiving a State contribution of 310 million. kr, which means that a person is fully financed by the State. The package has an economic framework of 2,670 million. kr in 2015-krona. Over 1 billion. kr goes to rv. 36 and Rv. 32, and so there is some funding for commercial transport, public transport, pedestrian and cycle routes, urban environment, road safety and the operation of public transport in the rest. The KS2 consultant has pointed out that the financial structure appears to be very robust, and that it is likely that there will be less traffic rejection and thus higher revenue than the one used in the planning of the package. That means that you're probably going to be able to pay down this debt faster than you've assumed. Then one can also remove the toll correspondingly faster. It is important that projects have portfolio management where target and performance management is an important part. This means that projects and actions are prioritised on the basis of the criteria objectives, results, societal economy, planning status, available resources, planning and implementation capacity. The scope of development must be adapted to the economic framework. This is a project that gives you better transport solutions in place in the urban area. There will be a discussion about tolls. I find that some of those who have never even lifted a finger to reduce the toll are dissatisfied because the Progress Party has not removed any more tolls. Then everyone is welcome to vote to further increase the state's shares. I have not registered any such suggestions. What I recorded, on the other hand, was that the Senter party was opposed to increasing the state contribution to the toll project in order to reduce tariffs when we dealt with the toll reform on Monday. Then it appears as a bit hollow and a little superficial populistic when one points out in this debate that the tolls are not being reduced enough. But today's government makes a difference: it builds more roads than what was planned by the previous government, it's lower toll than what it was put up to, and I'm very pleased with that. Then it's up to the voters to decide whether they want even more of it at the next election, or whether they're satisfied with the evolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4136	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4139	Let me first start by thanking the Committee on Rapid Treatment, because it is an important day for Telemark and for Grenland. These are projects that have been discussed for a long time. I'm joining 100 pst. to the Ministry’s assessment of the project, which highlights at all points the quality of the project in terms of the urban environment, the surrounding environment, road safety, etc. One gets fixed two national roads that are highly inappropriate as they appear today. When a person corrects the level crossing on fv. 32 and crossed there, maybe Norway's worst cross is removed, and that must be good. I'm not going to say I'm dissatisfied with the Advancement Party, I'm very pleased with the Advancement Party, and now the Council of State should listen: I think it's well done that a party that has built up its entire electoral campaign strategy towards 2013 to be against tolls, now goes in and is for it and presents one project after another with toll funding. I think that is good and realistic. What's not so good is that the Progress Party locally is still very concerned about being against tolls, even though the Progress Party in government is now very much for it. I think that's a little bit of a shame and shows a lack of consistency, that one is still running that type of rhetoric. In sum, this is a good project. It is an important project, where one builds up during the walk and cycle path and gets loose bottlenecks that have direct negative consequences, not least for the commercial traffic in the area. It is good that there will be a little less toll and a little more government funding. Whether it's good with 16 or 13 collection points, I don't think it's very relevant. In reality, a reduction from 16 to 13 means that fewer people have to pay more, but I accept it because this is an important project for Grenland, and it's a good day when it's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4150	This is a happy day for many people and for the industry in Telemark. For more than 20 years, plans have been put in place to solve traffic problems in and around the cities of Skien and Porsgrund and the gateways to the cities. It is not everyday that a State Secretary from the Progress Party gets flowers and thanks from the Labour Party and the Center Party, but it happened when the then State Secretary Hoksrud held a press conference in Skien on 29 May about city packages. The Little Elve Cross is famous, and many think it is the most difficult cross in northern Europe, also called the 'infested'. The cross includes, inter alia: a railway crossing which finally receives a new solution by submerged parts of the track in an environmental tunnel. For 50 years Porsground has been waiting for a better traffic system. This is a project in which the municipalities of Skien, Porsgrund and Siljan, together with the county council and state, and not least the city of Bilistan, take a force for better roads and collective solutions in Grenland. I note that not everyone agrees to the funding of Citypackakte Grenland with tolls. It is also desirable that one through these transport measures be able to strengthen Grenland as an attractive and competitive region. Grenland should become a better place to live and work. A stretch that has been discussed is Shadowstein-Skelbretstrand. The stretch is outside the city center, and many think it should not be financed by tolls. Therefore, it is particularly gratifying that the state is now entering and financing this section of the urban package which is very important for business. The right fraction of the committee experienced with its own eyes during a visit to Skien on 18 May. Then we experienced heavy traffic and freight with great challenges in the swinging and steeping road into the town of Skien. It's also nice that one reduces the package by three fewer toll stations than what was in the original project. There are warnings from several local politicians in Grenland that champagne corks should be spread tonight. Most people are very pleased with the work of the government and the setting up of the committee. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the Committee for a good work on Urban Package Grenland Phase 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4163	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4177	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4184	As rapporteurs, I would first like to thank the Committee for a very good cooperation and goodwill in order to have this matter dealt with quickly now before the end of the session. I'm surprised that the drivers at E39, the inhabitants and the business community in Sogn and Fjordane, and not least in Förde, were very much appreciated. Ministry of Transport in Prop. 137 S, the Pre-package, propose partial toll financing for projects and actions forming part of the development of the road network in the Förde municipality of Sogn and Fjordane. It includes projects and actions on both national roads, county roads and municipal roads. The road network in the Leading Centre is not dimensioned for today's traffic. There is sometimes a problem with the safe and efficient operation of traffic. In Rushtida there is dense and slow-moving traffic. The transport corridor E39 passes through the Leading Centre and meets Rv. 5, which goes out to Florø. The solution for the traffic situation in the Front Centre has both a short-term and a long-term perspective. In the long term, there are plans to operate through traffic on E39 away from the Centre. In the meantime, it has been suggested that projects and actions in the Pre-package should provide better conditions for both transit and local traffic. This will be achieved, among others. by separating pedestrian and bicycle traffic from traffic. It is a goal to establish a coherent bicycle road network. There will also be built download routes. Several of the projects will facilitate development and development in and near the centre. There is local political support for a partial toll financing scheme for the Pre-package. A joint committee agrees that the established toll company should be allowed to charge tolls for the partial toll financing of the Sogn and Fjordane Pre-package. It is estimated that the construction of the first project will start approximately at the same time as the toll collection begins, i.e. a so-called parallel toll collection. With the financial contributions for the Pre-package, a tolling period of 12 years has been introduced. In accordance with the Toll Agreement, the right to collect tolls will lapse once the company has fulfilled its obligations. Upon collection, any excess funds will be put at the disposal of the State Road Service and may be made available to the national road system in the area where the tolls are required. The decision in principle was taken in Förde Municipality in 2011, and one of the projects has been ready for implementation for less than four years. It's a milestone in itself. I would like to thank the locals who have worked locally for E39 and Förde to get the fastest possible solution to the traffic challenges they face. I am pleased that today we can make a decision for the Pre-package, so that Sogn and Fjordane can start a long-term project and action.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4203	The day tomorrow, the last day of this session, is essentially the time for us to debate the revised national budget and the matter of the emergency situation of Syrian refugees. Therefore, this last ordinary matter does not appear on today's map, the toll proposition about the Prepackage, one day too early. Whether we in the Transport and Communications Committee and here in Stortingen have had to wait a long time to get things done, it is mainly for those who live and travel in Förde and in the districts around, that this is a day of joy. The current road network in the Fürde Zentrum is not dimensioned for the traffic going through the center today, nor is it a forward-looking solution. In Rushtida there is dense and slow traffic, and there is also a problem with road safety. This prepackage is, therefore, a long-awaited package of measures, which will now provide better conditions for both transit and local traffic, which includes: will be achieved by separating pedestrian and bicycle traffic from car traffic and the aim is to create a coherent bicycle road network. In addition, download routes will also be built, and several of the projects in the package will facilitate further development in and near the centre. The traffic situation at the Centre will be improved by the implementation of these measures, but at the same time it is important to have also looked forward to the future and more long-term approach, which means that the transit traffic on the E39 is being conducted outside the Executive Centre. There is broad local and regional political support for the partial toll financing of the Pre-package. Before the municipality and all surrounding municipalities are associated with Sogn and Fjordane County Municipality behind this application – an application based on government, county and municipal funds being included in addition to tolls. It is here, in line with the local policy decisions, that people passing through the toll stations are also very well advised to take part in the overall benefits that the toll package will provide, while emphasis is placed on avoiding the benefit of many without participating in the payment. So here it's going to be a lot of work. The Committee on Transport and Communications notes that toll collection is to be effective and that the costs associated with collection and financing are as low as possible. In addition to the fact that the entire Committee believes that low costs may benefit from less congestion or shorter collection periods, the Labour Party and the Centre have an additional comment on this, pointing out that, if local authorities wish, any lower collection costs should also be used to get more out of the project. This will also benefit motorists and public transport. I am pleased that today, not one day too early, we can make a final decision on the package, and I would like to wish everyone involved all the closures with the important work that is now being given a final clarification, and which I hope can now be started as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4222	The prepackage is a large and lengthy road project to improve traffic continuity and local traffic. There will also be an upgrade of the roads in the center. Tolls are an important source of funding for the project, with a cost framework of a total of 1.65 billion. 2015-krona, in addition to funds from the Förde municipality and the county municipality. It is good that the project has now been presented, and it is not one day too early, as the previous speaker also said. This project has been planned, planned and planned over a long period of time. Lead is a growing city, and the E39, which today goes through the city, is of terrible quality. Both the upgrading of the E39, the local road and the new bicycle and cycle systems will have a major positive impact on the further development of the Förde. So one would believe that everyone is happy about this grip, but no. On May 3rd this year, the Group Leader of the Progress Party said to the NRK: ‘The national meeting has agreed that tolls on the use of the urban package arrangements will not be applicable to Förde. The prepackage has tried to take a shortcut by connecting to the urban package, but the national meeting has now established that only the nine largest cities have the type of environmental problem that makes them eligible for the scheme.’ He also said that with such a decision from the national meeting it would be impossible for government members or large-scale representatives from the Progress Party to go in for tolls: «Now we have the governance of both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Department of State. There is little evidence to suggest that there will be any positive adjustment from there.’ That's what Frank Willy Djuvik said. And when the matter was finally put forward, he claimed that the entire Progress Party was disappointed both locally and centrally, and that it had been fighting a lot of battle from the Progress Party's side both in collapse and government to avoid this matter. He owed it to the Right and the Cooperation Party. But it is now the Minister for Transport who has presented the case, and he is even the next leader of the Progress Party. Then a well presented thing without tolls, as the red-green government did with the Kvivsvegen, which lies a little further north on the E39, and where we took away the tolls that were initially planned. It sounds hollow when Djuvik claims that the Minister of Transport has also worked hard to finance this package without tolls, that is. without the billion that is now in. I ask the Council of State in its article to do well for what other options have been considered in the process, and whether any of these options were free of tolls. And why choose one anyway to file a toll case? I note that the Council of State in the press report indicates that the government will provide interest compensation for some projects. If the package becomes one of these projects, we don't know anything about it today. But why go the way of interest-rate compensation? One would have made better use of the funds by giving them directly to the project without going the way of borrowing, with the costs that it would have to incur. For Förde and Sunnfjord, the decision we have to make in Stortinget tonight means that one can launch a project that will give all road users in the Förde area a better everyday life. Transport is important for development, and it is good to have another project where the plans start up under the red-green government, agreed in the Stortinget. It's just so sad that there's clearly a strong reluctance from the Council of State and his party traps. The central part is in agreement with the Workers' Party on a note that points out that lower collection costs can and should provide more roadway. There are many and good projects, both large and small, in this package. But as I know Sunnfjord and the Förde area, I know that there are also more projects here that can get involved in funds if resources are available. It should be possible to add up to it. But regardless of tolls or not tolls – there may be a lot of meaning about it, both here in this room and locally – there is a happy day for Förde, for Sunnfjord and for Sogn and Fjordne when the Fjord package now passes the Stortinget, that a positive decision is made to enable one to launch a project that I am absolutely sure will mean a lot for the development of the Förde city and the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4256	SV terminates the setting up of the committee. I could say the same thing about fares based on lower interest rates. I did that in the previous case. In both of the last two cases, there has been a note from the Workers' Party and the Centre that the possibility of lower tariffs can also be exploited if there is a local political desire to do so. To that I would like to say that they can use the money for other things than the way as well. They can use them for a bike path, for a service of the Førde bike path – it’s a great place, which is well suited for bicycles, I just have to say that – and for public transport, as in the previous case. I just wanted to say that. It'll be fine, this. I think it is good that several of the municipalities in Norway, several of the cities in Norway, think of comprehensive collective solutions when they address the state, instead of they being fed off that no, the only thing you can get money from the state, the only thing you can get solutions to from the state, is road construction. If you want to develop good housing and urban environments to live in, it's just thinking overall density completely central. I am very pleased that the Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party is also overrun in this matter by his local politicians from the Progress Party to provide a better solution, in line with what the vast majority of local communities want.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4265	Good roads are important. It binds communities, it binds cities and housing and working regions together. For the Förde kommune, the Fördepaket means that you get better accessibility. Leadership is the most populous place in the county, has many jobs and is a focus of commercial and industrial activity. The roads in the centre are not dimensioned for current traffic. With relatives in Sogn and Fjordane, I can confirm it. E39 goes through the center and meets rv. 5, which goes to Florø. There is also a lot of local traffic that transports this, so that you get transit traffic and local traffic that creates challenges. The prepackage includes 20 projects and actions by national, county and municipal roads to ensure a good flow of traffic through the Centre and to increase the safety of walking and cycling. There will be better conditions for both local and transit traffic, and there is local political support for the package. Then there's probably some disagreement about how this is going to be financed, but there's a known conflict between some of the parties. The package involves the construction of new road links, the construction of pedestrian and cycle roads, the upgrading and extension of existing roads and the upgrading of existing pedestrian and cycle roads. The last projects are Angedalsvegen – Hafstadvegen, E39/rv. 5 Mountain road as main street, as well as fv. 481 Angedalsvegen on the route Førdehuset-Prestefossbrua-Skora. The financial envelope is $1.65 billion. 2015-krona, financed by a combination of tolls, government, municipal and county funds. The toll scheme has been discussed. Everyone knows that there's one party that doesn't like tolls, we've lost on this case, but gets reduced. At the same time, there is a toll reform that the Stortinget dealt with on Monday, giving room to reduce fares. I think it is gratifying that the Storting agrees that this work will be done. I also think it is an interesting, curious side to the debate that the two parties that opposed the toll reform on an interest-rate compensation are the two parties that in this debate have drawn up the desire for lower tolls. So they have a desire that they themselves are not willing to finance. It appears to be quite populist and little reality-oriented. But you're always allowed to change your mind. If the Workers' Party and the Centre change their position on the interest-rate compensation scheme, I think it's very nice, and I'd like to see them promote a proposal in the Stortinget about it. Anyway, now we're going to build better roads in this region too, and I think all the drivers are satisfied with that, even though you might be dissatisfied with the way it's financed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4280	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4283	In my post, I challenge the Council of State to say a little about what other alternatives have been in the process. Unless one assumes that the party leader in the Advance Party in Sogn and Fjordane is completely uninformed in his statements and does not have contact with what is happening centrally, he has a clear belief that one has a light and a light for other solutions. So I ask again, what other options have been evaluated in the process? Were some of the options without tolls, and why choose one in that case anyway to bring up a toll case?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4288	I don't think it's news to anyone here that the Progress Party is against tolls and believes that someone should finance infrastructure and construction in the country by investing a little more of the oil wealth. It would probably give a better return on capital than by borrowing it out by buying low-interest bonds from other countries. So that's the way we're going to get the adoption of what's being promoted. That means that the government must compromise in line with the budgets that have been adopted in the Grand Duchy, and what we think we are getting a majority in favour of. One has recorded that many of the parties in Stortinget will not be involved and will spend more tax money to reduce toll charges, and in this case one came to the distribution that lies here. At the same time, it means that the toll reform that has now been adopted, although the Centre Party and the Labour Party have protested at its content, provides economic space for action in order to reduce tariffs or reduce the pay-down time, compared to what was the basis of the local policy decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4295	I noticed that I did not receive an answer to my question. So I'm going to ask another question, because interest compensation is clearly the answer to most things. The red-green government took away tolls on some projects, including: The waveway, which is also part of the E39. You can ask yourself, ‘ Why don't you do that instead of walking the road on interest compensation? ’ Does the Council of State think that by providing interest-rate compensation, money is better used than by giving it directly to the individual State budget project?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4303	I find it fascinating to have questions about cutting tolls from a party that has protested every time the government has proposed to cut tolls. What you're asking about here, is you yourself not willing to be involved in financing. However, I shall say that today's government – with the Right and the Advance Party – together with the Christian People's Party and the Left in the Stortinget have managed to reduce the toll on a number of road projects by increasing government contributions. On seven-eight sections, we have also completely removed the toll stations. It's an assessment we do from time to time, based on what we think it's possible to get the Storting to join in and finance. It is true that if a cutter tolls, that means that one has to increase the state share, because no one is building the road free of charge. We've gotten to a lot of places lower toll than what the previous government provided. If the Center Party wants an even bigger toll cut, I think it's a nice development. It's a little sad that it didn't happen when the Stortinget dealt with the toll reform on Monday. Then the Center Party and the Workers' Party protested that the government is proposing to reduce the bombing tariffs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4312	I would like to ask the question again, because I did not get an answer – I did not get an answer to the first question and did not get an answer to the second question. Does the Council of State think that by compensating for the interest rate, i.e. by providing an interest compensation, the money is better spent – getting more money – than if one had allowed them to go directly to the project over the state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4319	Interest compensation is a scheme in which a reduced rate of bombing is applied to all projects included in the scheme. It is a way of stimulating toll companies to merge – to reduce administrative costs, to increase financial weight, and thus reduce interest costs. So yes, it actually gives lower toll costs for the inhabitants, and one gets more for the money than if one had just gone into and granted a little bit in some projects. I think it's interesting that the Center Party takes up this subject, all the time they themselves were against the interest compensation scheme. Taking into account that the interest-rate compensation scheme will reduce the cost of the bombs on almost all road projects, compared to the central part of the government, the drivers have much to be pleased about, namely that they were given a government change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4326	I don't want to ask the council about anything, I'd rather tell him something. It's to try to clear up the round with the state council from instead, when he said that the Labour Party really wanted things to get cheaper. Everyone wants to make a good deal, but our point is that if it gets more reasonable, you should not only be able to reduce the amount of bombs you have and not just cut down on your downtime, but you can also expand and do more actions. It can be cycling, walking, and collective action – or road. In addition to that, on this last night, I want the Council of State to have a good summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4331	Then the state council has accepted the story and the summer wish. Does the Council of State want the word?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4334	Yeah, I might want a good summer back. I look forward to it. Monday I'm going to start driving the E39, just to experience the entire stretch from Trondheim to Kristiansand. I also find that in the story that I have now been told, the Workers' Party confirms that even when today's government wants to reduce the bomb tariffs, the Workers' Party prefers not to have lower bomb tariffs. They'd rather spend the money on other things. There is a view as to whether to allow citizens to keep more of their own money or whether it is always the way politicians should spend the money. So on the one hand, we get criticism from the opposition that we don't reduce the fares enough, and when we do, we get a little bit of criticism that we're actually using the money to reduce the rates, and not using them for other things. That means that the opposition is really trying to ride many horses at once – most to be critical of the government, not so much for the actual content of the case. I think that is a little sad about a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4341	What we have said, and what we have written – it says black in both of the last two cases – is that if one wants it locally, one should also have the opportunity to take more action. There's nothing we say that the Labour Party wants to decide, it's local democracy to decide. Otherwise I will recommend E39 from Trondheim and southwards, I ran that road last year. There was a bit of trouble with the ferries a few times, but otherwise it is pretty good and very nice to look at. Drive carefully, and good summer on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4348	I look forward to it, I've already started to test-eating faucets to find the right combination of butter and other on top. I can also rejoice that there are more ferry departures after today's government took over than it was when the government that the representative Rommetveit supported crashed. The chance to hit a ferry and get space is considerably greater now. I think that also gives peace of mind for a traveler on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4353	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4356	In the past evening, there has been expressed concern both that I do not understand dialects from the south-west parts of the Kingdom, and that I am unable to engage in transport policies in Norway other than those relating to the capital, despite having lived in Akershus for the last 30 years. But that is why it is a pleasure now to be able to make a proposal to improve the package. It is very good with that package, because good political craftsmanship has been done, and there is an affordable bet in the package on both bike routes and soft road users that makes those who are already cycling in and around the Førde will get a lot better relationship. We're happy about that. At the same time, the Pre-package has the same problem as many other urban and urban road projects in Norway – no climate accounting has been established for the Pre-package, and there is reason to fear that the Pre-package will contribute to more road traffic and more car traffic into and out of the Centre. Facilitating car entry, there, as elsewhere in the country, will make more cars. There is also a lack of analysis of whether the development of the route along with the introduction of parking systems and increased public transport will really solve the traffic challenges. If you compare it with the neighboring cities of Florø and Sogndal, they have, for example, parking arrangements which function well and for which equivalent solutions could have been considered in favour of in the package. That is why the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European I take this up with me the proposal I have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4367	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the proposal he referred to. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4373	I am very happy that we are here today and will make final decisions on the package. It's actually very lengthy. The current road network in the Leading Centre is not in the vicinity of being dimensioned for the traffic passing through the centre today. The prepackage will provide better conditions for both transit and local traffic. The lead is going to be our bike town in Sogn and Fjordane, and the goal is a coherent bicycle road network – yes, this is going to be very good! There is broad local and regional political support for the package, which will be a split layer of government funds, municipal and municipal resources and in addition to tolls. I am also very pleased with the additional comment from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, which says that, if required by local authorities, any lower collection costs should also be used to get more out of the project. Had this been multiplied, it would have been even more valid to stand here today, for this would also have benefited the motorists and the public transport. But I'm very pleased that the Progress Party's group leader in the county did not get a pass in his own government. "This is a great defeat for the whole party," said Frank Willy Djuvik from the Progress Party in a press release when the recommendation was made. The advance party’s front figure in Sogn and Fjordane has tried to stop the prepackage from day one, and, as the representative Navarsete also said, it peaked when Djuvik triumphantly declared after the national meeting decision of the Progress Party on the urban package scheme only in the nine largest cities: “This decision has probably buried the prepackage once and for all”. We can only say today that he was wrong. Fortunately, he has not passed centrally. I want to use the opportunity to thank the Committee for the very quick handling of this package. I would like to thank you for your support. It also applies to the Right-Representative Soap meal – good work by everyone! This is where we've been, and it turns out that we're going to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4388	Today Stortinget manages the Predepackage – a major and important case for the Förde municipality and for the Sunnfjord region. It is working well and targeted with this case from the Förde municipality's side, with Olve Grotle at the head, and from the toll company. Saka has received rapid and good management in the department and in the government. The work on the Spring Package was serious for the autumn of 2011, and it has always had good support and enthusiasm from the vast majority. The urban package has had considerable administrative and political support in the Förde municipality, in the municipalities of the area and in the county municipality. Government and Storting's approval of the Prepacket is an important lever for growth and development in the Förde region. Through the Pre-package, walking, cycling and car roads will be built over the next eight years for over 1.65 billion. SEK in 20 different road projects. The costs shall be covered partly by public concessions from the State, the County and the Principality and partly by tolls. Of course, the toll section should have been in front of it, but it is a decisive and necessary factor for the road package to be realised. The prepackage represents so much investment that it itself makes a positive contribution to the optimism, development and growth of the Förde. The various road projects are so extensive and many that they will, in sum, change and modernise Förde in their expression as a city – not least because of this huge investment on soft road users, which will give Förde a milder and more friendly facet. The prepackage thus fits well into the important work that is going on to make the city more pleasant and attractive. The prepackage solves many of the traffic challenges in Förde and will ensure that the city will have good and forward-looking traffic management over the next few years. Similarly, it will be much easier to build and develop property in Förde, especially in the centre, where a demanding traffic image has put fantastic and legal obstacles to investment and good urban development projects. Before the municipality has also recently approved a municipal plan, where many of the measures in the package are included. As a result, the planned aspects of the package are also well developed. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate the Förde municipality on the words Grotle in the head, and the toll company, for the work done and for the success of the individual actions of the Fördepakket. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the Committee and the Stortinget for the rapid and effective management of the package, and for the co-opting of the opinion in line with the proposal of the toll company.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4410	I would also like to start by thanking the case rapporteur and the rest of the Committee for quickly delivering work on a package that Mr. Förde has been waiting for. Of course, it's a happy day, not least for Sogn and Fjordane and Fjordane and Fjordde. It is not to hide that many of us were concerned when we read the Fourth Post on 3 May, where we saw one who did not have the same name as me, even if someone said it like that – Djuvik, with ‘D’, I would clarify – said he would torpedo the Predepackage. I expect that everyone in Sogn and Fjordane has got along, and like previous speakers, we should be happy that he was wrong, and that the minister, after written questions from me, kept the promise that the matter would come before the summer. I would have been even more satisfied with the end of the summer holiday here at Stortinget if we had another package for treatment today, but that you didn't have to put forward, and that's the road package Helgeland south, but it's probably coming right away. I'm also very happy that what we have here is the opposite of what Igstad said in his post about the bike bet we have. It actually shows that there is both room and need for bicycle betting outside the largest cities as well. This is a good example of this. I've been in Förde myself, and there it is, of course, very well arranged, with these suggestions, in order to make it an even better city of bikes. Unfortunately, we have not managed to get a majority for an important principle. We succeeded in the Bodø package, and it should be a principle, but I note that the Advance Party and the Right have brought the Christian People's Party and the Left on that principle, and it is important that we do not open up the possibility for the local authorities to use the difference in interest rates for more measures if they so wish. It is very important in this project, because there are 20 measures here. Many of them are below the amount that you might get in that interest difference of $55 million. This means that you may now have to drop some of them, instead of using them on good measures. At least there won't be any more way or more collective of that proposal. Then I think something has been shown with clarity today: here we knock through two new bomb projects. I record that there are some new ones who are going to be involved. There is at least a clear message out to the upcoming election campaign and the upcoming municipal and county elections that it should be noted that it is not only on the Stortinget that we sometimes experience a slight difference between the Advance Party and the government. We see it not least clearly between the municipalities, the government and the Stortinget, when we know how powerful they are out there saying that they say no tolls, but then something completely different happens. That should be included in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4425	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4439	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4453	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 17. Case No. 18–30 is the second reading of legal cases, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4602	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 18-30.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4608	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4701	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Per Rune Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Per Rune Henriksen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 4, by Kjell Ingolf Roppstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Environment Party The Green proposals No. 5-7, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party 8, by Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Greens There is a vote on proposal No. 8. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to facilitate the delivery of power from sea-based renewable energy to the area solution’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4736	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-7, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The size does not consent to the extension and operation of the Johan Sverdrup field, and asks pursuant to the Petroleum Act § 4-5 that the extension of the field be postponed indefinitely.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking that expected greenhouse gas emissions from both the production and combustion of petroleum become part of all future plans for the expansion and operation of fields on Norwegian base.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that a thorough analysis of climate risk is carried out in future plans for the development and operation of fields on Norwegian soil.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4763	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for further efforts by force from the country to the Utsira area to also dissipate power from land for the full or partial electrification of the Gudrun field and the Sleipner field.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4780	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the following measures and return to the Stortinget on a case in the budget for 2016: 1. Strengthen the work of KonKraft by resuming participation by OED. 2nd@item: inlistbox Measures that can contribute to a greater transfer and use of the competence of the Norwegian supplier industry in other parts of industry. 3rd@item: inlistbox Increased appropriations to carry out the work of revising the NORSOK standards. 4th@item: inlistbox How governments can contribute to the provision of work on the study of permanently abandoned wells, thereby exploiting available rigging capacity. 5th@item: inlistbox Adjust the basis of calculation of the obligation to pay in the case of leavencies, so that the load on industries with rotational arrangements is equal to that on other industries. 6th@item: inlistbox Measures to ensure the realisation of profitable modification and maintenance projects, thereby making use of available capacity in the supplier industry. 7th@item: inlistbox Measures to ensure that time-critical and profitable projects for increased extraction are realised, thereby ensuring good use of resources and making use of available capacity in the supplier industry. Eight. Ensure that petroleum professional lines in secondary schools are not laid down as a result of the fact that companies do not recruit in the present situation.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to assess how, through a closer follow-up to development projects, governments can ensure that contract strategies and project implementation contribute to the achievement of our overall objectives in the field of petroleum policy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4827	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess whether the objective of being a world leader in HMS can be reinforced by the fact that all, or part of the regulation on health, environment and safety in the petroleum industry and in some land installations: [[Rule of the Rules of Procedure]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4863	The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4908	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Nikolai Astrup on behalf of the Right and the Progressive Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Green Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that petroleum activities are not initiated in the ice and polar regions’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to refrain from allocating blocks 7336/1, 7435/9, 7435/10, 7435/11, 7435/12, 7436/10, 7435/3 and 7335/1, 7435/2, 7434/7, 7434/8, 7434/9, 7332/9, 7333/7, 7322/3 and 7323/1 in the 23rd concession round, in line with the consultation of the Norwegian Polar Institute and the Environment Directorate.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4943	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the right hand side and from the front, which reads: «Report. St. 20 [[2014-2015]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e4963	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government in the 2016 State Budget to set aside funds to initiate and strengthen the search and rescue work in the Mediterranean, and to take initiatives for a broad reform of migration legislation in Europe with a view to ensuring a more balanced distribution of responsibilities between countries.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e5131	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Right and the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess the criteria and guidelines for the use of ATK and route ATK within the framework of the work on the overall road safety notification.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e5158	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e5171	President, I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e5176	Let's do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e5207	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Mr Kjerkhol on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, 2–6, by Abid Q. Raja on behalf of the Left-wing proposal No. 7-9, by Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 7 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide full funding for the development of rail transport in the metropolitan areas through the urban environment agreements.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e5236	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9 by the Greens. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to make it possible for the State to finance a greater share of the operating resources of public transport and bicycle routes through the urban environment agreements.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to stop planning capacity-enhancing road projects in the metropolitan areas’.» The Socialist Left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e5260	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Two to six from the left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that road projects in the metropolitan areas are in line with the climate agreement.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The Government requests the submission of carbon budgets for major road projects in line with the treatment of St.melding by the Stortinget. [[2006-2007]] No 34 Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that road authorities base agreed climate objectives on transport planning in close cooperation with local authorities.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assume that, at the time of the conclusion of urban environmental agreements, the package of measures has been put together in such a way that road traffic in and through metropolitan areas does not increase.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether climate emissions should be an independent criterion in the award of reward schemes and urban environmental agreements.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e5300	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In line with the current national transport plan, the size of the budget will allow the government to enter by more than 50 pst. financing of individual projects for the development of public transport through the urban environment agreements and the urban packages.’;» The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e5335	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to continue the scheme for walking and cycling paths’. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e5361	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e5386	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e5419	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Size Transmits Prop. 123 S. to the government, as Norway, according to the Constitution, is not able to give sovereignty to supranational organizations the country is not a member of. [[2014-2015]] The Government may, if appropriate, refer the matter back after securing Norway's right to vote and full rights as a member of EASA.’;» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e5442	The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e5483	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to assume that the projects financed by the Førdepaklet will not contribute to increased traffic in the Førde zentrum’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e5524	Case No. 16 is the third time the legal action has been dealt with and is subject to the rule of law 94, with the opinion adopted at the meeting of the European Parliament on 15 June 2015. That is why we are voting on the draft law with the adopted statement from the second reading. – The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the third reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e5536	Case No. 17 also applies to the third processing of the legal case and to the legislative decision 103 with the adopted remark at the meeting of the Grand Duchy on 15 June 2015. That is why we are voting on the draft law with the adopted statement from the second reading. – Thus, the Bill passed the third time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e5547	Case No. 18 to 30 are the second time legal proceedings and concern legislative acts 110 to 122. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-18.ana.ud1556e5561	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
