ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e55	The called alternate of the Eastfold County, Fredrik Björnebeck, has taken the seat. The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e63	On behalf of the representative Audun Lysbakken and myself, I will put forward proposals to ensure integration from day one.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e68	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting is going beyond noon if necessary. 16:00.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e84	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: the Working Party 30 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to five lines of reply are given after submissions by the main figures of the parties and six lines of response by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e91	I would like to start by thanking the members of the Committee on Transport and Communications for a thorough examination of this budget which we are debating today. It's an important work we've done over the past few weeks, which we're finishing today. I would like to thank all the Members for their good contributions. The budget setting shows that the Stortinget has knowledge-rich and committed transport politicians, and it promises well for the transport sector too for the next two years. I would also like to extend special thanks to our good friends in the Christian People's Party and the Left for the cooperation we have had, including during the negotiations. The budget for transport involves two historic milestones. The first is that the budget leads to a second reduction in road and rail maintenance in two years. The second is that we're actually doing something historically new. We grant money to a road company that is to expand the major shipping years in a long-term and predictable way, and we are reforming the rail and toll sectors. These two things make the budget for transport this year stand out from a historical perspective. Great numbers and milestones are important, but what does it really mean when we say that there is a historical commitment to transportation we are going to adopt today? Well, that means, among other things. that we are now building new roads and more railways throughout the country. In Alta and at Arendal, in Djupvik and in Larvik, a new road or path is being built that connects housing and labour market regions in completely new ways. In the magnification documents, it's a place name and a sum. For those who live there, it becomes a whole new everyday life and a whole new reality. I am pleased that the government is following up the action programmes and is accelerating projects where possible. The historical commitment to transport also means that we maintain the infrastructure we already have. In terms of rail, we have documented an annual increase in the maturity of 1 billion. kr in the year 2005–2013. But in 2014, the cooperative parties reversed this trend, and in 2015 and 2016, we are reducing the downturn on the road and the track that has been built up over decades. That's what results are. A few days ago, we could read in the VG that CargoNet is finally making money on goods by rail, and they point to one of the important reasons: ‘a development of punctuality that is the best in human memory’. [[...]] So they point out that the profitability of goods is coming on track now, after the solid maintenance effort we see from the government, and that we have finally begun to reduce the red-green decay that has built up over so many years both on the road and on the railway. People who drive a lot on our roads can tell that there's just been asphalt very many places. Tunnel safety is important to the government, and therefore we have made sure that, even after adjustments in the budget, we grant about five times as much to tunnel safety now as we did before the government change. Bets on new road and track and bets on the maintenance of our infrastructure not only do we get safer roads and trains that go when they are going to. It also creates thousands of new jobs and secures the jobs we already have. Because of the halving of the oil price, many people in the oil-related sector lose their jobs. The fact that we then have a high level of transport investment is absolutely crucial, and actually more important than ever. Technical Weekly could tell that a quarter of engineers starting in other jobs start in the construction industry and in the power industry. It's an example of how increased transportation efforts help get people to work and keep the activity around the country up at a high level. The transport sector shall contribute to the green shift. This is why we are increasing the appropriations to expand public transport and bicycle routes, so that more people can choose environmentally friendly ways to get to work, to kindergarten and to school. It is absolutely vital that we cope with the green shift in the transport sector. The contributions experience people every day. More money for public transport means more buses going. More funds for trains means that now more than 100 more trains pass through our capital every day than it did before. That means people save time in everyday life, time they can spend with family and friends rather than waiting for trains that don't come when they are going, or sitting in line in traffic. Traffic shall be a competitive advantage for Norwegian jobs, but an efficient transport system is essential for getting the puzzle in people's everyday lives to rise. That's what the Right Government and the Cooperation Parties are working for. We need to get people moving faster and safer home. We create jobs, we give business more competitiveness, and we contribute strongly to the green shift. There's a little bit left until we're where we're going to be, but with the agreement of the cooperation parties on the priorities of transport, we're closer than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e119	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e122	In November, together with the Progress Party, the Right invited you to a seminar here at the Stortinget on maritime safety in the recreational boat sector. It's an important theme, because the numbers of accidents and deaths in the recreational boat fleet are too high, with an annual average of 33 deaths in the last ten years. This seminar took place. by several boat organisations and authority bodies called for better evidence of accidents and deaths associated with the use of recreational craft. It was pointed out that a separate emergency group, in cooperation with the Directorate for Maritime Affairs, could be an important step in strengthening the safety of recreational boats. The Workers' Party, in a comment, is in favour of increasing the capacity of the State's Committee on Disasters in the field of Transport to strengthen its efforts towards recreational craft. Why won't Right support this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e129	I thank the representative, Mr Rommetveit, for raising a very important question. It is quite right, as the representative points out, that we have unfortunately seen too many accidents involving recreational boats at sea, usually related to alcohol and drugs. That's why it's crucial that we look at what means we can use to reduce death rates at sea. Like the Workers' Party, government parties also want to produce a larger factual basis. We are very concerned about the safety of recreational craft at sea, but we are concerned that we need to put in place the right prevention measures. Then we want to assess whether a breakdown commission is the right measure, or whether we can get more out of other solutions. We're going to come back to how we're going to find the best possible solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e136	In the last edition of the industry magazine Boat magazine, I see that Royal Copenhagen Norwegian Boat Federation under the heading «KNBF succeeds in its boat policy work» refers to the Right Maritime Safety Seminars as «very successful». I was there, and I also thought it was a good and not least a useful seminar – especially useful because there were many different but relevant actors who pointed out which way you can go to increase the safety of those who use a recreational boat. When we designed our remark, it was after the advice of several recreational boat operators. We would raise a field that we thought everyone would join. My question will then be: What must be done by my representative to increase the safety of the recreational boat fleet, in addition to what the representative said in his previous reply, that prevention is important?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e143	I am very pleased that the representative Rommetveit appreciated attending the leisure boat seminar in the direction of the Right and Advance Party. I promise the representative, Rommetveit, that we will arrange several seminars from which he will have great pleasure. I think it is a commendable initiative, what is now in the position. It is not that we – on the part of the government parties, at least – do not want to go into it, but we want to assess in more detail whether it is the most appropriate solution that is pointed out. We want to take a closer look at it, because we are, of course, like the Workers' Party, very concerned with the safety of the recreational boat fleet. This is a work that we're going to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e150	In the budget adopted before Christmas a year ago, it was decided, with the votes of the four cooperation parties, to initiate work on the national road safety plan. And even though we now have better numbers for the number of fatalities and injuries in traffic in recent years, the zero vision will always be an important leading star in road safety work. What does the Right think about the main areas in which a future focus should be on in the further work on the national road safety plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e157	I would like to thank Mr Gruvan for raising a very important question, and of course it is related to road safety. It's a very central work for the government to prioritise. It is gratifying that traffic death rates are falling, but a life lost in traffic is a life too much, and therefore we have to use all the instruments. I am pleased that the four cooperation parties have proposed a separate road safety plan. I think it's important to look at what we can do in terms of physical instruments on the road with middle-parties and other security measures, but also to look at awareness-raising work, especially against risk groups and the drivers we know are particularly vulnerable. But we also know that there is a lot of good road safety work going on around the counties. It has to go into that work, so that others can learn and take advantage of it, because we're now beginning to see clearly what works.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e162	In the budget position, the majority say that they will: ‘emphasise that the 2016 state budget, with the subsequent agreement, contributes to a green shift in the transport sector’. I then have to assume that with it the majority believes that greenhouse gas emissions are going down and that this budget contributes to it. Then I ask a very simple question to the representative of Hofstad Helleland: Will the greenhouse gas emissions in 2016 fall due to this budget? Is it enough to be on track to the goal of the climate agreement of 47 million tonnes that the Storting has adopted, and can she guarantee that it is going down at all? Or is this more a comment that expresses a hope that greenhouse gas emissions will go down?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e173	Thank you for the question. It is a hope, but it is also a strong belief that this budget will ensure that greenhouse gas emissions go down, and it is not least because of the enormous railway effort that the four cooperation parties have provided in our three budgets. When you're out meeting people who work in the sector, and I know that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås is also often, you now notice the enthusiasm and the belief that the increased appropriations have a lot to say to get ahead on the railway development. We're strengthening the railway operation by 466.4 million. kr both on maintenance and new investments, and we see that we now have large projects to be implemented and that are also being set up with great funds in terms of planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e178	So the line change was over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e181	The story of Norway is the story of how we have jointly met challenges that have faced us. The last time the Workers' Party was in opposition, we announced a systematic bet on transportation. We met with accusations that we had air billions. History shows that we have succeeded in our ambition – transport has been lifted on the political agenda, we have historically high appropriations, and we are in the process of renewing and improving the transport system in the country. The Stoltenberg II government started the journey of time. Since 2005, there has been a systematic increase in funds for investment, operation and maintenance in the national transport plans submitted. We have followed up with annual appropriations for the State budget. In the spring of 2013, we presented the current national transport plan. It opens up large investments in the transport sector between 2014 and 2023. It is the most ambitious plan of the time for the renewal of the transport sector — with a growth of 65 pst. and a 508-billion-dollar frame. kr. Central investments are higher investment levels, lack of maintenance is to be reduced early in the period, planning needs to be more efficient and better organised in the sector. I am very pleased that the sitting government has the ambition to follow up the ambitious national transport plan we presented. The Council of State will have the honour to ensure that he is able mainly to allocate enough money to meet the level of ambition in the plan we put forward. I note, however, that the government is very far from complying with what they promised in the opposition to their voters in the spring of 2013. The working party will continue the lift for transport – also in opposition. That is why we are giving priority to transport and telecommunications in our alternative budget, and we are proposing 463 million. kr more than the government. We have a different priority than the government. Increased promotion, better safety and environmental considerations form the basis for the Workers' Party's transport policy. During the weekend, the world’s countries concluded with a very ambitious plan to limit the effects of climate change: less than 2 degrees increase, with an ambition to limit down to 1.5 degrees. The problem with the agreement is that there is too little binding concrete action. With this rear carpet, we now have to look forward to the climate area. Norway has committed, with broad support in the United Kingdom, to cut emissions by 40 pst. by 2030. The changes will not happen on their own. Should the companies and travellers really change course, predictability and clear signals are needed. As the Minister of Climate Change said to TV 2 on Sunday, dramatic changes in the transport sector are required to achieve this objective. This is not what characterises the government's proposal for a government budget for the transport sector. The government refers to a number of emission challenges and describes what will come in the next national transport plan. The willingness to give priority to emission reduction measures is small when one is self-responsible. What we know today is the result of how, as a society, we have been able to adapt to great changes and upheavals. Throughout history, this has been normal rather than the exception. Now we've become more people in our country, new technology has replaced old solutions, and challenges are solved and then replaced by new ones. It requires active political choices. There is little evidence to suggest that the government has arrived in this area. I would like to thank the Left and Christian People's Party for having pulled the government parties after the hair in the right direction. The priorities of the agreement in the field of collective and rail bet approach the priorities of the Workers' Party. Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time. It's about the future and the possibilities of future generations. The transport sector currently accounts for about 30 pst. of the total Norwegian climate emissions. Measures in the sector are therefore central to reducing domestic emissions. Technology development, public transport and the development of environmentally friendly means of transport are therefore key actions under which we want to support. Centralisation and population growth in and around the big cities will be a challenging challenge that we have to face. The climate agreement at Stortinget presupposes that all growth in passenger traffic in large cities is to be taken with public transport, more cycling and walking. Then we have to make sure that it is possible. That's why the Workers' Party will invest 10 billion. kr for climate and collective action in major cities over 10 years. We're following up on last year's proposal and we're proposing 700 million. kr more than the government proposes, for 2016. It is the county municipalities that are responsible for public transport. In addition to urban population growth, county authorities experience a reduction in the growth of the economic space in general and direct government reductions. We therefore also strengthen the framework for the county municipalities by 600 million. kr in next year's government budget. But that's not enough. We believe that the State must take special responsibility for the development and operation of urban railways and bus lines with its own tracks. This is essential for good transport solutions in major cities, and this means that, after negotiations with municipalities, the State must be able to take on up to 70 pst. by collective investment in large cities. Important projects such as the Bergen Urban Railway, the Stavanger Bus Road Project, the Oslo Inner City T-Bahn Tunnel and the Trondheim Superbus Project are to be carried out. «It is far this country», Rolf Jacobsen wrote. And that's where people live everywhere, fortunately. It's a result of wild politics, conscious political choices. Access to basic infrastructure is essential in order to maintain residence and to realise opportunities throughout the country. This is why there is a major boost for investment and renewal of the national road network in the national transport plan. Roads bind towns and villages together. The main road network connects regions and the country. Good and safe roads are good for both residents and businesses. Therefore, the Workers' Party will continue upgrading the road network. The working party believes that modern broadband connectivity is the basic infrastructure that everyone should have, and that this is an important contribution to growth and employment across the country. We will therefore continue to develop in areas where there is no commercial basis for this today. Just as when you rolled out the copper network by phone, this is an option that everyone should get, regardless of where you live. It's not the market that can fix it. Therefore, the Workers' Party will invest three times as much as the government to ensure that everyone has an equivalent opportunity for a digital everyday life in 2016 and for the future. The government has been consistently lagging behind with measures against a record high number of unemployed. When the government presented its budget in October, great emphasis was placed on spending money on employment, because there was a sharp increase in unemployment in the West. It is positive to use the situation to provide the necessary maintenance. However, the actual impact of employment is uncertain. The Norwegian construction sector is competent and operates seriously. I am therefore concerned when the major construction contractors in Rogaland have notified possible permits before Christmas. We have a lot of expertise and experience that can and should be used. In the Building Industry magazine on 6 December, it can be read that on Folloban alone, EPC contracts have been distributed to a value of 14.2 billion. kr. None of these have gone to Norwegian operators, they have only gone to Italian and Spanish entrepreneurs – nothing wrong with Italians and Spaniards, but the shift of time should also be a vitamin injection for our own construction sector. It is a matter of concern to increase the renting and renting of labour. The aim must be to create sustainable jobs in a competitive sector. In Oslo we have received a city council led by the Workers' Party. One of the major challenges in Oslo is air quality in the city. In October, Norway was convicted in the EFTA Court of Justice of not having taken sufficient measures to ensure adequate air quality. The government has no strategy to meet this. Nevertheless, the representative of Hofstad Helleland, who intervenes and assesses several measures to ensure good air quality that the citizens actually have to breathe in, is strongly expressed over the Oslo City Council. No one has heard what the Right Option is to bring down the emissions in the city. In the national transport plan, one of the main objectives was to reduce the planning time for major projects. A number of measures have also been identified that will contribute to this. There was broad support for this in Stortinget, but what is the status after two years? It is not possible to answer, because the ministry does not follow up with a systematic survey of an area where there was very high and dark in the election campaign. It is still a long time before the government shows action in this area. In the Labour Party, we believe that everyone should be included. We must achieve the goal of a universally designed society in 2025, a society in which everyone can participate. Still, someone will depend on help to get out of home. The key to this has been the TT scheme. Next year, the government is taking a rematch to cut the development projects that are in three counties. Once again, fortunately, they are whipped in place by their partners in Stortinget. The government is pursuing a policy of increasing disparities by combining large tax cuts for the wealthiest of the country with unsocial cuts, among others. for those who are dependent on help to get out. We support a national TT system based on the experience gained. Government parties will increase differences in the country. The richest country gets hundreds of thousands in tax cuts. Instead, we choose to cut the subsidy to fishing ports, we do not want to provide subsidies for broadband development, we want to increase the charges on passenger transport, we want to remove employment measures, we want to postpone the protection of tunnels, we want to protect the race, and we want to see the opportunities of municipalities and counties to facilitate development and growth. The Workers' Party's alternative budget is a budget where work for all is job number one. It points forward towards political priorities for the future. High employment combined with a serious and organised working life is a prerequisite for a society with small income differences. This contributes to the security of individuals and to a reduction in people’s opportunities depending on the wallet and gives important advantages to companies competing in an international market. In meeting these challenges, the Labour Party believes that we should strengthen the social fabric that has made Norway the country it is today – not weaken them. I bring up the proposals that the Workers' Party and the Center Party are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e230	The representative Eirik Sivertsen has thus addressed the proposals to which he referred. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e235	Over time, we have recorded a trend in which construction costs per metre of road have increased significantly. In recent years, construction costs per metre of road have actually doubled. This means that we get less weight for each krona invested, and in the big message ‘On the right track’ we do a lot of grips, among other things. with the establishment of a separate road carrier and the use of public-private cooperation, precisely in order to increase the efficiency of road construction. This is the Workers' Party against. My question to the representative Sivertsen is: Is the Labour Party concerned about cost developments? And in that case, what is the Workers' Party's proposal for what we can do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e240	I share the representative's concern about the cost development of construction projects on the road, and so far on the railway side. Yesterday we had a debate in connection with the recent ageing of the costs of national road ferries, and the county municipalities are experiencing the same thing. But the Workers' Party's answer to this is not to move boxes on an organisation card and create new limited liability companies. We can't see that building a road necessarily makes it cheaper, but we're busy developing the construction industry. We have warned to raise the professions to raise skills as an important step to make them more effective. We think that might be a proper grip to take. We believe that if we are to solve these challenges, we are doing so in cooperation with the major actors in this area, balancing the demand for the actual supply so that there is not too much demand. In times of very high economic activity, it becomes cost-effective in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e245	The Right and Advance Party went into government and got government power because they had new solutions. People believed in them, they believed that you could solve things faster, better and fairer. I read with pleasure and interest alternative budget from the Workers' Party, on which Sivertsen was in, and there you can read on page 51: ‘The long time it takes to plan and develop roads and railways is a challenge. It is therefore an objective to halve the time it takes to plan and implement infrastructure projects.’» I fully agree with that is a good goal. But we have had a road reform and a rail reform, and the Labour Party voted against everything. The question is – after the Labour Party has ruled continuously in the last eight years before this government and most of the last 50 years in Norway: What is the solution? Where's it going? I have not seen it in either the budget or other proposals from the Labour Party in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e255	I understand the representative's need to talk about the eight years that ended two years ago, instead of talking about the two years of self-government. When we talk about being believed in what we went to election on, where was it of the 454.5 billion? kr more as the Progress Party promised to travel in opposition? Where did the measures to be implemented in terms of planning and efficiency become? The government is not able to prove that something has actually been done. From the option for the Workers' Party, it is clear that in the current national transport plan, a whole range of measures are being taken to improve efficiency, including: State authorities are to practice clearly and in the past, to implement the amendments and options of the 2009 Planning Act, to draw up deadlines and plans for the treatment of transport projects, to look at the treatment of the draft selection inquiry and planning according to the Planning and Building Act in the context, and, in particular, to use the State plan more actively than has been done in the past – that is the response of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e260	The reform on the right path was adopted in spring, including: The creation of a new road company was seen as an important tool for speeding up the development of roads in our country. And then we have to admit that no matter what kind of government we've had, the tribal road development in this country has been going on clandestinely and in historical times. The road reform aims to change this by giving the new road company responsibility for important and coherent sections, and for 2016 the first money is allocated to the company. In the Labour Party's draft budget, we record that the appropriations for new roads are zero kroner. I want to know if this is a clear signal that if the Workers' Party were to be in position after the 2017 election, then the company Nye Veier will be shut down, and everything will be as before in the case of Norwegian road development?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e267	The working party grants, as the representative points out, zero kroner to the road company, and that is because we believe that the road company is not adding anything special new. We believe that our option, where the State Road Agency could manage several projects in a separate project organisation, negotiate with government and raise priorities, get more slack to have rational progress also linked to annual budget appropriations, is a better option. We do not see the gain by creating a new box that will compete for competence and planning resources to progress. The funds we cut from the road company, we mainly put into national road investments, so we agree that there is a need for more funds there. Thinking about what's going on in 2017, I think it's a little early, but it might be that you gain some experience that can be useful to build on further. And I am absolutely sure that in any case, the Workers' Party will ensure that the road company will abide by the obligations they have assumed when we return to the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e274	I would first like to take the opportunity to thank the representative Sivertsen for taking the opportunity to thank both the Left and the Christian People's Party for helping to get this budget in a much greener direction, and I believe that both the representative Gruvan and I agree that we have actually contributed to a much greener and more forward-looking budget. Speaking of greeners, I was thinking about the fare, because the Workers' Party has communicated that the fare will help to destroy jobs, that the aircraft will be cancelled, that less will fly, and so on. – that one simply makes less to fly. At the same time, they have communicated that this measure will have no climate impact, that it is a purely fiscal charge. But I have challenges in getting both things to vote, because either there will be fewer flights and so it has a climate effect, or it won't be, and then it will have a purely fiscal side. I would like to ask the Labour Party to clarify: does this have an effect on the climate, and will this result in the closure of several flights?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e280	It is nice that the representative Raja appreciates the praise he earned. In such a nuanced question, I will also give a nuanced answer. It has been raised beyond any doubt that if we charge for one thing, demand will decrease, and thus one also most likely will have fewer air travel, and thus also less climate emissions. The Labour Party has criticised not necessarily the absence of climate change emissions, but the justification for the tax and the motive does not appear to be a green tax, because it would come in the Green Tax Commission. This appears more to be a balancing of the budget. We are not the ones who have said that this will lead to the disappearance of hundreds of jobs. We're not the ones who have claimed that there will be fewer flights, and that routes will be shut down, it's actually the operators in the industry that have done, and we've chosen to take that seriously. We think it is wrong to impose such a charge overnight without having determined the consequences in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e287	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e290	Standing here on the pulpit at the end of the year is always a little bit daunting. What did we get in the year that went on? Was what we adopted last year? If I look back, we have delivered a number of targets in 2015. We have launched several reforms, and not least a lot of good action has been put in place in our area. The final result for the 2016 budget has also been good, even though there are areas that I would have liked to have seen to be different from the point of view of the Progress Party. But the proposal under consideration shows that this is how our democracy works, and this is how negotiated majority agreements work. So what does 2016 bring us? Yes, a budget for work, activity and migration with a strong increase in the transport budget of almost 4.5 billion. kr. We get a clear commitment to the maintenance to stop the red-green decay with a road investment increase of almost 3 billion. kr and with a total contribution to the railway of 9,9 billion. kr. Plus 568 million goes into it. kr of the Government’s package of measures for increased employment for the maintenance and renewal of the transport infrastructure. All of this helps more people get into work in a situation where the nation with a reduced price of oil and increasing unemployment needs new forward-looking projects to work with. I can't imagine a better timing for this huge investment in infrastructure than now. Take the road company, where it is already working on detonating and structuring the start-up in a few days. Seven sections have been selected from within the European TEN-T network as main inland waterways in Norway to be completed within 20 years with a framework of 130 billion. kr. This gives clear leads and predictability. We build better, we build longer, and we build faster. We're cutting down on the planning processes, we're gathering the different opposition authorities around the same table, and we're taking input that's come from other countries' good experiences on road construction. As I said, the budget and transport reforms are placing considerable emphasis on new major projects, but also take better care of those we have already built. This is precisely what increases road safety, accessibility and links housing and labour market regions with growth and jobs. However, Norway also has a lot of roads to take off that unfortunately need to be upgraded. Because it is not that by moving out seven sections to the road company, the job is done. No, most of our roads are located in the NTP, and will be very well cared for by the State Weighing Agency. We overcomply with the National Transport Plan by 2.7 billion. kr. This is an important signal because it gives the state's road system an indication that there will be funds adapted to the future. The government also delivers large volumes on the railway. Here we have started reforming. There is full progress on all major projects, and we go into another year with reduced maintenance kits. This results in a quality improvement of the infrastructure with increased road safety and not least of a punctual and predictable railway. There is also a lot going on in aviation: new FOT routes are in place, open-skies completed, investigation of the Polar Circle airport, relocation of the Bodø runway and soon a new terminal on the OSL. But not least, the final luggage project for travellers in transit at Oslo airport is under way. I think maybe representatives of the area around the capital have no idea what this has to say for travelers and for the competitiveness of the airport. The district representatives probably know very well what this means. In the coastal area, sector taxes on the Coastal Plant are reduced by 86 million. kr. It is designed to strengthen the framework conditions of short sea shipping. The construction of five fairway projects and two port projects is also under way. The aim of the majority constellation is so absolute to get more goods from sea to sea. By betting on intermodal nodes, we will succeed much better. Look at the agreed location for Trondheim, for Bergen and other important projects. I wonder a little bit about the opposition's resistance to taking new action for the future. We've tried pieces and divided. I guess there's a cross-political consensus that it didn't work out completely. So now the government is promoting innovation. Nevertheless, the opposition is against it. I heard that the representative from the Workers' Party pointed out that they were also thinking new, building completely and further. But why do they vote against it? The most important thing now is to look ahead and ensure that the transport budget is provided with sufficient funding in the future. The country deserved it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e322	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e325	For many in this country, the flight offer is part of their collective offer, and it helps to bind the country together. That's why we're very surprised to see that we have a government that makes it more expensive to fly, with the new We are already seeing that this has consequences for the flight offer. It will hit the districts extra hard, which already has high prices on the air routes. I also believe that this will lead to increased costs and threaten to maintain the offer of the least profitable flight routes, and not only in the districts. Yesterday we could read that Moss airport has to shut down in the worst case case next year, and that this could affect as many as 1,000 jobs. Does the Advancement Party in Stortinget think that this is a good proposal and does it share the concern of those who are so deeply affected?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e330	Firstly, I would like to say to the representative of the big business that I assume that the representative from the left will explain the view on that particular fee. When it comes to the matter, about the airlines, airports and everything that has to do with that sector, I think you'll see a little bit bigger about it. It is not just this proposal that has been made in connection with the financial clearance that lies there. We have an oil sector that's struggling, and this has led to a passenger drop of 30 pst. There is an increased need for security agreements, etc. at aerodromes, which have also caused Avinor to impose a major charge on the carriers. We have other types of charges that make it part of a challenge for airlines. What we're doing now is going to consult the proposal that's been adopted and engage in dialogue with the airlines in this area. I'm sure we'll find something that will work well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e337	Turning to another issue, which concerns road safety. The national Road Safety Action Plan 2014-2017 shows that 30 pst. the planned reduction of fatal and severe injury shall be taken with physical measures, while 70 pst. shall be taken with roadside and vehicle measures. Action against speed shall be taken alone for approx. 25 pst. of the reduction. Route ATK is a local response to speed. It is strange that the Progress Party will not take part in our comments from the majority of the Committee. Is that why the Council of State is still trying to stop these photoboxes, or is there any other reason why you will not be involved in the proposal that goes on the route ATK – and for that matter also the pace with regard to alcohol locks?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e344	For our part, we don't think it's necessarily proven that the number of accidents is going down because of the distance-ATK. We've discussed the need for it in tunnels. The Progress Party has looked at this, and where traditional police control cannot be used, it is possible to assess it. But the general distance ATK does not necessarily mean that the number of accidents is decreasing. If you look at statistics, the most important thing we can do about road safety, building better roads, safer roads, roads with middle parts. Most of the accidents that occur on the road occur either as a meeting accident where one car enters the other carriageway, or where one car comes out of a side field on the right. So I think the most important thing we can do is build good roads. We look at the statistics that that's what gives counting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e349	The majority unanimously adopted a plan of measures in the spring of 2015 to get more goods from road to sea. This is an important part of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by making more environmentally friendly modes of transport profitable. In the 2016 draft state budget, the government presented proposals for the removal of the bulk emergency charge for boats below 10000 tonnes – a measure that will make it more reasonable, we believe, to transport goods by sea. What other types of action does the Progress Party consider could contribute to intensifying the development of more goods from road to sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e356	What's important to us is to get the different modes of transport to talk better together. This means that one facilitates one, for example: have rail tracks down to a port to facilitate and reverse the transition between goods at sea. That's what we think is very important. I was in my post about the intermodal node. It is an area of concern for the government – and also from the representative’s party – how we should get a better flow. Then it must be that those who use freight must be able to trust that the goods arrive at the agreed time. So the best thing we can do, that's for both track and sea, is to get goods to come out when it's going to. There are people who say that a dead salmon really needs to get there. Therefore, we must make the best possible use of both berths and interconnections between the various modes of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e363	Before the party came into government, the party was a strong opponent of road construction-related tolls. Now the pipe has a different sound, and there is a toll proposition after the toll proposition from the Ministry of Transport. That's exactly what I'm going to leave now, since I'm a member of the construction of the projects in question, and tolls are a necessary evil to get it done. However, the Progress Party is now also involved in introducing aviation tolls, more specifically by means of a charge on air travel, which will give more than 1 billion dollars. tax credits to the State Treasury. What has happened that the Progress Party has become such a strong supporter of such transport charges? And, did the representative say what I understood, that you were open to put the fee in the drawer, like that Prime Minister said here a few weeks ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e373	What I was clear about was that when it comes to any change in an area, one should listen to the industry. That's normal, we always do. Now this proposal is to be consulted. The airlines and other actors are going to be allowed to say their own, and then we have to see what comes out of it. Now I'm not going to start shooting at the end of this, but it's a little too simple just to say that this fee that's now being proposed to air passengers is the reason that airlines stop flying, that routes are shut down, and that airports are being shut down. It's a little thin. But now it is important to listen to the industry, and then I am absolutely convinced that after the hearing there will be good suggestions on the table with which it is actually possible to live for both one and the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e378	This weekend we had air pollution levels in Oslo that were on the red level. That means that healthy people get sick, sick people get sicker, and the sickest die. That's what research says, like, among other things. is supported by this Government. Now we are going into the third winter with the government we have now, and there is not yet a concrete government proposal on how to ensure that people get clean and safe air. I have noticed what the Progress Party writes in the setting, and then my question is: Is it so that the Progress Party at national level is ready to overrun the Progress Party at local level, which is moving towards low-carbon zones, and which goes against having environmentally-differentiated toll charges that keep the most polluting cars away, so that we can get clean and safe air?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e387	For us it is important to maintain local democracy. Then you have to be aware that a government consists of several parties that work together, and I assume that the representative who stands here knows well from his time with eight years with a majority government from the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens. So it's like we, who represent the Storing, are negotiating with what the government is presenting to us here. We are now playing very clearly in the collective field. We've been in favour of a budget where we're going to contribute 50/50 in the big city in order to increase the collective share when this is being expanded. We've also been involved in saying that the increase should be taken in the collective field. And so it is that the Progress Party has promoted a number of proposals, including: employer paid collective cards, which we had hoped the representative and SV might be able to support, and which TØI shows would just give a 20 pst. increasing the number of people who would then have used collective services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e394	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e397	Safe and efficient roads are important for people and businesses throughout the country. The Christian People's Party therefore considers it important and necessary that the new political majority take new and absolutely necessary action. Major reforms are taking place in road and rail in these days. A renewal of the transport sector that can make travel life safer, more efficient and more environmentally friendly has been programmed and long wanted by the Christian People's Party. We therefore support the main actions taken by the Solberg Government and the Solvik-Olsen State Council in the field of transport. Investment in infrastructure is investment in future quality of life, development and value creation. Prosperity is important both in districts and urban areas, for businesses and individuals. Despite the fact that investment in infrastructure was promised as one of three areas for the use of the return on oil wealth as the rule of action was designed under the Bondevik II regime, the transport sector has long suffered from a lack of resources and unpredictable framework conditions. The result has become too bad a standard on the road and maintenance and not good enough collective services. Therefore, we are pleased that the maintenance run on highways is further reduced by 1.4 billion. through the budgetary agreement concluded by the four cooperation parties. Greater predictability, more coherent planning and development must be ensured through alternative forms of organisation and new funding systems. The aim is to increase the rate of investment for both road and track. Operational stability and high-capacity infrastructure and train equipment capable of managing large transport flows are necessary to improve train provision. Therefore, there has been a need for a rail reform with a new incentive structure that can create a better dynamic, a better offer for our customers. For the Christian People's Party it is important to strengthen the train as an attractive means of transport. Then a reliable train offer with sufficient capacity, good comfort and high safety is required. A more well-functioning railway will also be a good tool in facilitating housing pressures in the larger cities. That is why we are very pleased with increased appropriations for railway planning and maintenance, and that the maintenance phase will be further reduced by means of the Christian People's Party budgetary agreement with the Left and the two government parties. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to put in place a new and better TT system. We need a national system for those who have a special need for organized transport and who must be in addition to the county system we have today. Now we've had a trial plan in three counties. The testing scheme should provide us with experience so that we could create a better and more user-friendly system. To our great dismay, we discovered in the budget that the government proposed to wind up the TT system. The whole bet was zeroed out. The Christian People's Party could not accept that. That is why I am pleased that, through the budget agreement, we have now not only saved the trial system, but also increased appropriations, and not least that we are now going to develop a new and improved national regime. It's important. It will mean a lot to those who need their own transport service. This is about all people's right to participate in society in the same way as others. It's about creating an inclusive society for everyone where everyone has the same right to experience being part of the community. It makes the impression when those who have participated in the trial scheme tell about how life was experienced with a new scheme. As one says, the first days of the new arrangement were going to be overjoyed. Think I can get involved in something when I want to. I've now got the feeling of living, not just being alive. We in the Christian People's Party are therefore pleased that the majority of the four cooperation parties assume that the experience gained from the trial scheme will form the basis for a national scheme. It is assumed that criteria and establishment for the new scheme are developed in dialogue with user organisations and stakeholders. It is important that the scheme for the user groups in the three experimental groups be continued until the new scheme is in place in 2016. The next year’s allocation will also allow current users in the sample groups to continue their offer, the possibility for new users to be included in the scheme. It is important that we now use 2016 to lay the foundation for a national system that can allow everyone with high transport needs to be included in this offer, based on the same criteria.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e416	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e419	This weekend, world leaders concluded with an ambitious plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. As the representative Sivertsen had in mind in his main post, the Christian People's Party has so far a tradition of moving the governments' climate and collective efforts in the right direction. Grøvan's party leader, Knut Arild Hareide, has already been in the class struggle and demanded that the government submit a plan for cutting emissions now. Then my question is, where in the transport field will the Christian People's Party cut the most emissions in the near future, so that we can reach the ambition the world leaders have now settled through the Paris agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e424	That's a very important question. Today, the transport sector accounts for approx. 35 pst. of the emissions. If we are to achieve these objectives, it is absolutely necessary that we put in place targeted measures. One of the areas in which action should be taken is to be able to make collective provision more attractive in the larger cities and to have low-emission zones. We also believe it is important to look at the diesel and petrol charging policy and to create a better infrastructure that makes it easier to use an electric car, a hydrogen car, etc., so that it is always profitable to pollute as much as possible. These are some of the areas that we want to give priority to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e429	I would like to thank Mr Gruvan for his answer. I have a really short follow-up question: Does the representative Gruvan think that the Christian People's Party is getting the most out of control of its climate and collective policy through continued cooperation with the Right and the Climate Skeptics in the Progress Party, or is it getting more out of hand in working with the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e434	For the Christian People's Party, the results are what counts. We are committed to achieving results in this area, because we believe that transport policy is an important key to achieving the objectives as a nation. We are very pleased with the achievements we have received, not least together with the Left, in cooperation with the government parties in important areas. We think we can go a few steps further to become even more concrete both in terms of charging policy and in terms of differentiated zones – low-emission zones – and we believe that we should be able to have an impact on the cooperation we have. So I would like to add that we are also open to good proposals from the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens, which we will definitely be positive to consider if we see that in a broad deal on the Storting we can reach the results we are all concerned with in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e443	The party is concerned that those who own something must take responsibility for what they own. Consequently, it makes sense for the State to take responsibility for its ways and also for its financial responsibility. But we still have tolls, unfortunately. It's a udder, and we would rather not have. But when the majority of Stortinget wants us to have tolls, it is important that the toll rates become as low as possible, and that as much as possible of the toll rate goes down the road and not all other possible measures. Is the Christian People's Party also concerned that the share of tolls paid by the drivers becomes the lowest possible, and that the tolls go to pay off the road, and not everything else?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e449	Tompenger is, as the representative Johnsen points out, a necessary partial financing of major road projects, and it has said both the Christian People's Party and the political majority in the Stortinget. At the same time, we are also concerned with the fact that tolls are to be experienced both relevant and fair. We believe that some of the steps that have now been taken in road reform, among other things. fewer companies and larger regional companies will result in more efficient collection and lower administrative costs, and in this way we will get tolls more directly into road projects. We are absolutely committed to using the possibilities we have to reduce the amount of tolls, but at the same time we want this to still be part of the funding, and we also think that it must be for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e458	Nor am I going to aggressively attack the Christian People's Party for the efforts made to draw the budget in a more environmentally friendly direction. The starting point is, in my opinion, pretty bad. But let me start by asking a question in an area where the Christian People's Party can't possibly be satisfied. It concerns the air conditions for children, heart disease, asthmatics — people who have asthma, and those who have carbon. Now we are going into the third winter in which the representative's preferred government rules, and no concrete action has been put forward to improve the urban air for people. I would just like to ask a simple question to the representative: how quickly does the representative feel it is necessary for the government to make concrete proposals on the table that the Stortinget can knock through?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e465	I believe that Holmås points to a very central and important issue, which must find its solution through concrete measures. It is clear that the air conditions described in several of the larger cities – Oslo is mentioned, Bergen is another city that has very big, concrete challenges in this area – require special measures. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) has participated in the Committee on Energy and the Environment in proposing measures to enable municipalities and county councils concerned to implement their own measures in terms of both low-carbon zones and other restrictions aimed at improving air quality. We believe that action should be taken quickly, and we hope that, in the next year, we will already be able to see the first measures that will be able to deliver concrete results from next year and in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e470	Thank you so much for that answer. Let's say it like this: I'm happy and not surprised that the representative shares the concerns of all the people who are now suffering, as I mentioned in a previous line. This weekend and this time there have been really healthful air values – at the red level – in Oslo. The problem is that year after year we see that it happens little. And it's quite right, as the representative says, that all the proposals that can make an improvement are promoted by opposition parties, whether it's the Christian People's Party, SV or the Left. Nevertheless, we see that the government is training and does not come out with measures in time for municipalities to have the opportunity to take action. I just want to ask a follow-up question: does the representative think it is essential that the government present these grips during the spring session, so that we can have them in place for the next winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e475	We believe that there is an urgent need to get the grips and the room for opportunity and to put in place measures that can deliver concrete results. We've been in favour of this, because this is a serious problem. We believe that there are measures that can solve this and significantly improve air quality. Therefore, we believe that we have no time to lose. We should get started and put this into practice and give the municipalities and county municipalities the tools they need to create the necessary quality improvement for the inhabitants of these cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e480	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e483	The Central Party's transport policy is based on a more comprehensive understanding of the country's transport challenges than what we see from the majority parties. There was a great boost in Norwegian transport policy when the Red-Green Government and the Minister for Transport of the Centre Marit Arnstad presented the national transport plan that is now in force. One party believed at the time that they could build the transport sector without taking into account the economy and the state's finances, but that party has recovered to the fold over the last few years, to say it cautiously. We are in many ways happy with this, but I will nevertheless hold on to a central point: we still feel that too much of the money that could have been spent on transportation for the common good is being wasted on tax relief to the richest without anyone being able to prove in a reassuring way that this leads to investment and jobs. In the time we now experience, the Center Party believes that tax relief to the richest comes down a long way on the priority list. The transport field is one of the fields that will therefore receive more money with the arrangement of the Senter Party. Good transport solutions mean a lot to people's everyday lives. This is why there is a need for a strong commitment to racial protection, the removal of bottlenecks on the road network, crossing tracks on the railways, ports and fairways and the expansion of broadband coverage and mobile networks along transport years. All too often, we experience that the interests that benefit the manufacturing industry outside the major cities are far behind in the line of priority action. Take racial protection as an example: in parts of the country, the danger of race is a creepy reality in people's everyday lives, either daily or almost daily. Racial protection contributes to the promotion and security of both business transport and not least for schoolchildren and daily travellers. Therefore, the Centre Party proposes to increase the allocations for racial protection on highways and county roads by a total of 400 million. kr, a strengthening of more than 30 pst. This can be a good example of the fact that the Centre Party sees all of Norway and takes all of Norway’s needs seriously. Such a holistic view of the challenges facing the whole country is necessary. We need a strong infrastructure and transport policy. This is necessary for the vision of using Norway as a whole. We face several oppositions from the government parties and their co-conspirators when we present a policy that takes the whole country seriously. We must avoid developing a class distinction on the roads, where the county roads fall due while the highways are being restored. The most important thing for road users is a coherent and good road network, regardless of the level of administration on which they own the road. That is why I am pleased to say that the Centre Party has promoted a comprehensive proposal for a liberal local and county economy in 2016. We have proposed a significant increase in transfers to county municipalities – earmarked for the maintenance of county roads. We have put forward proposals for a reinforced compensation scheme for states that have demanding boating and ferrying operations, and we have made proposals to adjust the so-called county keys. The centre party believes it is important to remove bottlenecks on both highways, county roads and municipal roads. So we're proposing a 390 million bet. NOK to this. The massive and increasing traffic of goods on the road network poses a significant challenge, both in terms of safety problems, road wear and tear, and not least in terms of climate problems. Therefore, strong efforts should be made to shift freight traffic from road to rail and sea. If stimulated, the number of accidents would decrease, and Norway would be better able to achieve its emission reduction targets, among others. the freight transport sector. The commuters got one of the toughest cold showers when the government presented its proposal to the government budget. The 2016 budget is worsening the number of commuters for the third consecutive year. In Norway, there is a long tradition of political thinking that compensates for distance abusers. In this way, we have managed to create a Norway that has a little more similar opportunities across the country. When the government now chooses to hit the day commuters right in the wallet to define the fight against distance obstacles out of the political calculation, the Center Party will warn against this. There is a clear obstacle to the functioning of our labour market regions. Unlike the government, the Centre Party will strengthen the compensation for commuters, precisely so that we can strengthen and increase the housing, service and work regions. Ibsen told us, "At and at, it's equidistant. In and out, it is equally intrusive.» The government and the cooperation parties have obviously been inspired by this in terms of the grant to broadband at the edges. For two years, the government has cut off, and for two years, the Left and Christian People's Party has been negotiating the appropriations back to the level on which they settled. This is not offensive broadband betting. On the contrary, it's a round dance that has a light comic cut. The budget of the Central Party would strengthen the competitiveness of business throughout the country, provide a stronger national climate response and strengthen regional and local development. I'll bring this up with the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e506	The representative Willfred Nordlund has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e511	It was really a lot to grab into that post, but I'm going to talk carefully about one thing that was pulled out. The centre party has had a special responsibility for the Ministry of Transport quite many times. Every time there has been a red-green government, the Minister of Transport has come from the Central Party. The representative, Nordlund, said in his post that we spend our money on anything but transportation and give to the rich. In 1980, the budget for transport amounted to 8 p.m. by the State budget. Under the red-green government it was down to 3.5 pst. Is it to prioritize transportation rather than all other things?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e518	I record that the representative believes that the level of ambition was too low during the last government period. I think I have to remind the representative that today's government is in charge of the national transport plan of the Center Party and the Red-Green Government. If the representative believes that we should have further efforts, he is cordially welcome to vote in favour of the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e523	Unfortunately, when the Central Party ruled the country and even had the Minister of Transport, it was common to build up the main road network in pieces and in parts, and not in a coherent and complete way. Retorically, the red-green government talked a lot about building coherently and completely, but the words were never made into action. In 2006 it was built approx. 10.7 km of motorway in Norway, and in 2013 only 10.6 km of motorway was built. But after the Right-Fremskritsparti-regierung turned empty rhetoric into action and established the road company – just to build more rationally, coherently and completely – finally woke up the Center Party and, in fact, also the Workers' Party. Now the Central Party wants to open the way for the State Road Administration to work in a similar way to that of the road company, with portfolios and expansion over several years. I wonder why the Progress Party had to enter the government and set up the road company, and the Center Party had to leave the government before the Center Party really understood that in order to build coherently and completely it is wise to see projects for one and over several years?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e531	I have to thank you for the question. If I heard the representative right, he referred to a continuous motorway expansion between 2012 and 2014. The last time I checked, the representative's party put in government in 2014. The centre party has always talked about strengthening the ability to build more holistically. That is exactly what was mentioned in the national transport plan that the previous government presented, and which I am very pleased that the Progress Party in government has now also chosen to follow up – as we would have done if we had continued in government. Project management and portfolio management provide opportunities for a more holistic development – a development that is better socio-economic and allows us to see larger and longer distances as a whole. It's positive that you're now adding up to the next one.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e540	The size decided in spring 2015 to adopt a unanimous action plan to transfer more goods from road to sea, to reduce climate emissions and make more environmentally friendly modes of transport profitable. In order to achieve this, a whole range of measures are required. Among the proposals to be considered today, the Centre Party has proposed an action plan for better intermodality, ‘to facilitate the transition of freight between road/railway and port’. What kind of measures does the Centre Party regard as one of the most central to achieving this kind of intermodality?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e547	There are quite a number of measures that need to be taken to increase intermodality, including: regularity of freight trains must rise in order to allow transhipment in ports and intermodal hubs which are appropriate and competitive against road transport. In addition, we have promoted a separate incentive system for the carriage of goods by sea, and it is a system that we believe can defend itself out of this NTP period. It is that intermodal hubs and this of getting more goods on track and sea are important precisely to meet the climate challenges we have, and not least to strengthen the competitiveness of industry. In many cases, industry has called for such efforts. I hope that the government has also noticed it, and that it is followed up in the further work of looking at several tribal networks and their development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e558	The government provides for a rapid treatment and a rapid deployment of E18 between Sandvika and the Oslo border by assuming that they are to accelerate and allow land acquisitions with a background in the municipal sub-plan instead of waiting for the normal regulatory plan. But what amazes me the most is that the Center Party is involved in saying that it is important to keep progress in the project and indicates that they will spend more money on the land purchase in Bærum. My question is very simple. The highway that lies out there is a motorway that Oslo municipal authority is opposed to. The majority in Oslo is against that path. It's going to cost $40 billion. kr and will increase road traffic in the area and into Oslo, contrary to climate objectives. Is it really the case that the Center Party will prioritise as many billions of dollars for road projects in central struts – which are opposed to central struts?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e565	I must first be allowed to thank you for the question, because it gives me the opportunity to also say something about the Central Party seeing the needs of the cities. I want to go back to my post where I refer to business needs. We have to have the ability in this room to actually see the needs of both city and country. The possibility of accelerating projects has always been a matter for any government to use, if appropriate. But if it were to be such that you do not have local agreement about it, you have the full opportunity to move this money to other projects that also need them. I think we're going to say what's true: we have a huge aftermath on a lot of road sections in this country, and other road sections could have used this money if it's such that the locals in the region don't want this stretch to expand.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e572	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e575	Let me start by thanking the cooperation parties for having arrived at a good budget, which we are adopting today. The Paris Climate Summit concluded that the world needs to move in a more environmentally friendly direction. It became a very ambitious agreement. As you know, the left has had the environmental issue on the agenda for a long time, and we have just prioritised environmentally friendly solutions in the negotiations with the Right, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. Because this is what this is all about. We are becoming more and more people, and this leads to increased transport needs. At the same time, we need to be able to reduce total emissions from the transport sector. The railway system has estimated that the growth in rail passenger transport by 2050 in the urban areas of Oslo, Trondheim, Bergen and Stavanger will be about 170 pst. We therefore need to build smartly around the collective nodes and, at the same time, expand the housing and labour market regions. I think we're doing a lot right in Norway to meet this challenge. Last week, and now there's a little bragging at the Council of State, it became clear that the Council of State wants to build a new road and railway between Voss and Arna. The so-called K5 option will provide a travel time of about 40 minutes between Voss and Bergen and make Voss a suburb of Bergen. It is positive that the Council of State has cut through this matter and given a clear signal. It's about securing both a safe road and a modern train offer. At the same time, the planning of the Ringerik Railway is well under way, and the journey time between Oslo and Bergen can come down to four hours. In the east, an intercity network is well planned which will dramatically expand housing and labour markets. It is precisely such projects that we need to prioritise in the future whether we can achieve the objectives outlined by Paris. At the same time, we can reduce the pressure on the housing market in and around Oslo. The left is pleased that this budget is worth 835 million. kr for the planning of the four intercity sections in the East in 2016. The left is very pleased to have had a pass to increase the appropriations for the railway by 425 million. in addition to the Government's proposals. It contributes to a reduction of the maintenance set-off by about 0,5 billion. kr and may require some investment measures, to which the majority refer in the notes. Public transport in and around major cities needs to be significantly strengthened over the years to come. I am pleased that the urban environmental agreements that are now being negotiated will strengthen the offer, and that 50 pst. shall be covered by the State. In the budget agreement, we were able to strengthen the reward scheme by 275 million. kr, which allows us to get started faster with important projects like new T-Bahn to Ahus and new T-Bahn tunnel in Oslo. The budget also provides important progress for the Fornebuban. The fact that the Left also provides a majority for a 20 pst monthly reduction in NSB cards, with some limitations, will lead to more people choosing collective solutions over cars. Although the Left prioritises rail, public transport and bicycles the highest, it does not mean that the Left does not also act on the road. I myself had the pleasure of seeing our beautiful long country on my bike ride from Lindesnes to Nordkap this summer, and there I also saw the need to repair the road network. This budget will also increase the roadside framework next year, and although the majority will decrease slightly on road appropriations, the maintenance run will be reduced by a total of 1.6 billion. kr next year. Road accidents in 2014 and so far in 2015 show a marked decline. We're all the way back to 1947 to find corresponding low numbers. In this context, I would like to refer to the draft representative document No 8:18 S for 2015-2016, presented by, among others, myself to improve road safety for cycling. The size adopted the National Cycle Strategy as part of the National Transport Plan for 2014-2023. The bike strategy aims to increase the bicycle share to 8 pst. national and between 10 and 20 pst in cities. It involves a double in relation to today. With several cycling road users, it is appropriate to apply road safety measures at the same time. Better bike paths are first priority, but even if we're going to expand many bike paths in this ten-year period, we can't cover the need. That is why we also need to focus on measures to reduce accidents involving bicycles. In the budget, the left-hand side received a The left considers that these means should be inserted where the bicycle share is the largest, so that it contributes to a safer everyday life for cycling. Transport projects require large areas. I would therefore also point out in this context that the Storting has just decided to strengthen soil protection. By 2020, re-disposal shall be reduced to 4000 deches per year. It's an ambitious goal and will require all the agencies to think smart when choosing new routes. This is the third budget for this period in which the Left provides for a majority in this Chamber. The left has provided a greener profile in each budget. We've had an impact for 1.5 billion. kr more for railway and 1 billion. kr more for collective betting and cycling. Within the transport field, we can achieve significant environmental benefits by giving proper priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e609	Then we were on target! Perhaps the representative, Raja, would like to make some suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e612	I'll take up our suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e617	Then the representative Abid Q. Raja mentioned the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e622	The reading skills were nothing wrong with the school!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e628	That's very good. Unlike very many others, the representative Raja has a very good dictatorship, and it's not stupid to have in this hall, actually.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e631	Thank you, President! It warms up at Christmas to hear this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e636	It could seem as if he needed more speaking time, so now he gets at least one more minute, when he's going to answer my reply. I'll continue where Raja ended. This is the third budget – the budget for 2016 – for which the Left is securing a majority. My question is quite simply: is there now a left-wing policy in the transport sector? Is the Left satisfied with the transport policy in Norway after three years as a budgetary partner?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e643	If you're going to answer it honestly, it's not that the left is satisfied and in terms of goals. If we were to be satisfied, our alternative budget would have been adopted. Our alternative budget has a much stronger environmental profile, but with our 5.2 pst. We understand that we cannot have a majority in our alternative budget. But especially if you look at the year's budget in conjunction with the previous two, you will see that the maintenance run goes down on the railways, that we are strengthening the cycling effort, and we are also reducing the maintenance run on the road. Some of these measures are well-satisfied with the Left. But I think that if we had been able to decide alone, we would have moved the country faster in a much greener direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e648	The left shall be praised for drawing the government in the right direction. Unfortunately, it has become almost a sport for the sitting government that they cut the aid budget, they cut the rail budget, and then the Left and Christian People's Party gets to add in the areas that matter. That's good, because then the budget gets better. But it's clear, it should have come to the top of what was already there, and not that you should just reverse the cuts from the government. The left is quite so offensive in its general remarks about the railway. It's for the left. But when we come to the railway budget in concrete terms, I think it will be quite so vague. The working party has tried to raise several sections of the track in the notes when we come to the chapter on the Railway Works: the Intercity sections in the East, the Oslo area, the connection of the Vestfold Railway, the Southern Railway, the Kongsvinger Railway, the Gjøvik Railway and the Dovre Railway. There's no left here. Why isn't the Left involved and looking a little bit ahead in the railway operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e655	It was a long reasoning. I have no reason to shoot at the government, as the representative has. I think we have got a pretty good budget together with the government. In a cooperative structure, you have to give and take, and I think the Workers' Party is also familiar with what it was like in the previous period. The environmental parties were very proud of SV when they were in that position together with the Workers' Party. However, I note that we – fortunately for the environment – get through more environmental policies with the Progress Party in government than the SV succeeded in working party government. It's moving the country in the right direction. I think that if both the SV and the Left could decide more, we would probably have got'speeded' up this further. In the case of part of the suggestions made by the representative Myrli, part of them is in fact in the majority submissions between the cooperation parties and the Left and Christian People's Party. But there's no reason to frame all the good projects, the important thing is that you have a targeted effort to increase the railway effort, and this budget clearly shows that we are actually doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e665	The representative Raja spoke very warmly about his so-called bike ride. I have had the pleasure of following this with repeated searches in the media where the representative talks very warmly about the need to strengthen the road network independently of roads, and not least about betting on bicycle and pedestrian routes outside the most densely built roads. Then I would like to ask the representative: is it now that, since you've come to this room, you don't want to have an overall bet independent of roads? Is that why one has been on a budget that cuts down both on tunnel renewal, the ability of county councils to invest in bicycle routes, and not least on the possibilities of the various roads to ensure our soft road users?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e672	The representative Raja was very satisfied with his bike ride and learned a lot about it. It's like reading statistics if you look at this budget and start comparing the alternative budgets between yourself and so on, and seeing where you've been reduced and where you've increased. We have our alternative budget. I would like to call the proposal the government came along for an alternative budget. Looking at the budget that has actually been adopted, it is increasing in relation to last year, both national road investment on the roads and tunnel safety. It also increases the rural profile, and it increases the railway effort. Overall, this is increases in post by post, so I do not know myself in the reality description the representative is trying to make. Clearly, these are shifts in relation to the alternative budget promoted by the government. When the government then goes into a partnership with the Christian People's Party and the Left, one has to give and take, but overall it has actually become more to highway investment and more to tunnel protection than it was in last year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e679	That's right, as the representative says, it's become more national. This is related to the overall alignment with the national transport plan. Then it is interesting to note that the representative is pleased to be able to follow up the transport plan of the previous government, and no further action seems necessary precisely because of the challenges we see here today. Then I would like to ask the representative further about it. It has been said that we have several KVUs that go today, among other things. on tunnel repair, to be completed during these days. Then I have to ask the representative: does it not correct that the representative has been on a majority who has cut, among other things? One hundred million. For tunnel renewal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e686	With regard to the national transport plan, which the representative first mentions, the national transport plan of the previous government can be said on many points, if one were to characterise it as it was not really ambitious enough on a number of points. That is why, when we look back at the cooperation agreement between the government parties and the cooperation parties, there are just a number of points on which to over-comply with the national transport plan. And we're going to start doing that. The railway maintenance run has been reduced last year and is also going to be reduced by the budget that is now coming, and we know that under the red-green government, the maintenance run on the railway increased by 1 billion. kr per year. In the case of tunnel repairs, I refer to the previous answer where I said that in relation to the last year's budget and national transport plan, we are actually doing well. We're actually cutting back on that, and we're increasing both national road investment and, not least, tunnel security measures compared to last year's budget. If you compare it to the alternative budgets of the other parties, it will always be negative for some party. But what you have to look at is the sum of the last year's budget. And there we go.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e694	I would like to commend what the Left does with this not particularly environmentally friendly government, but I just have to arrest Raja when he makes the claim that the environmental policy of this government is much, much better than the previous one. I can only ram up: Fördefjorden, Repparfjorden, shooting in nature, climate emissions that are standing at a standstill, where the government's own tradesmen's reports do not even allow us to reach the climate agreement in 2030. But let me ask the representative a question about what I think is important: how long can the representative and the Left hold their hand over a government that does not submit a follow-up to the decisions we both have taken to ensure clean and safe air for the inhabitants of Oslo and the other big cities? We see that it's drained and drained, and while the air gets bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e701	We have mechanisms in Stortinget if the government or the state councils do not follow the decision of Storingen. At that time, there are mechanisms in the United Kingdom to invite the Councils of State to hearings, possibly other types of action in this Chamber. And if it turns out that the government doesn't loyally follow the decisions that the Stortinget makes, it will of course have consequences. It's not like we've protected anyone at any point. So the proposals that the Left has been in favour of, which the representative Eidsvoll Holmås has also been in favour of, we expect the government will loyally follow up, and I have reason to believe that they are actually being loyally followed up. One of the proposals – which is about something else – a common ticketing system, which is a demanding proposal that I have been involved in promoting, I know the government is working hard on, and the representative Eidsvoll Holmås and I have been working together to promote car-restrictive measures to improve air pollution in cities, and I expect that it will also be followed up by the government. I also refer to a note where the Left and Christian People's Party has formed a majority together with the Workers' Party and the Center Party, which is just praising Bergen for the measures that are about to be taken to reduce car use there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e708	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e711	I come straight from Paris where Environment Ministers from all over the world agreed on a climate agreement that clearly says that we are far from cutting enough in climate emissions, we are going to prevent global warming of 2 degrees. We're even further away if we're going to reach the goal of 1.5 degrees, which was fixed as ambition. The message from Paris to all the countries of the world is as follows: Go home and turn up the ambitions! The more that can be cut before 2020, the better. The Minister of Transport, along with the rest of the government, does all he can to deny that climate change and the climate agreement should have something to say for Norwegian policy, including transport policy – they refer to the EU rather. There has been a widespread misunderstanding that the EU – and hence Norway – has ambitious climate targets. We don't. The four largest emissions in the world, China, the United States, the EU and India, are expected to use the entire CO2 emission compartment based on what has been reported by countries. And then there's nothing left for the rest of the world if we're going to reach the two degree goal. The EU is among those who are far from being a reasonable proportion cut. The main question in transport planning is whether we are going to build Atlanta or Barcelona. It's two equal cities. Atlanta is scattered beyond, Barcelona is dense, Atlanta is car-based, Barcelona is collective based. Atlanta has high energy use and high greenhouse gas emissions, and Barcelona has low emissions. No cities in Norway are of Barcelona size. But the principles of social planning are the same. At the presentation The New Climate Economy, where both the former and the current Prime Minister were present and praised Barcelona and thought it was essential that we reduce transport and energy needs, they wanted to build societies like Barcelona. But it doesn't matter that Erna Solberg talks about Barcelona in the celebrations when the Minister of Transport builds Atlanta. Today we see urban sprawl, where cities are pushed out because of motorway expansion, and then you get the opposite of Barcelona, you get the opposite of the organic growth from within that both the State Road Service and the Railway Agency argue for. Tennøy at the Institute for Transport Economics wrote the following in a research summary: ‘According to research-based theory and empirical evidence from all over the world, long-term expansion of road capacity in such systems will result in induced or innovative traffic.’ In other words, research-based theory and empiricalness over a long period of time. Then it's impossible for me, when we have this knowledge, to understand why the Council of State thinks we should force the development of a project, E18, which violates the Storting climate goal, which will increase traffic, with the pollution it causes, which is not socio-economically profitable, which has a price estimate of 40 billion. kr, which builds Atlanta instead of Barcelona. SV has a number of transport policy objectives. One is: if it's not zero emissions, or if it makes it easier to achieve the zero emissions goal, it's not good enough. The second is that we need clean and safe air. The third is that we want safe and good roads in the districts. The fourth is that we want public traffic around the cities and lightning trains to bind the country together. The fifth is that we want to set cycling and walking first. So we spend the same amount of money in the transport budget as the government, but we show a different course. We're going to base the measure of zero emissions on everything we do. We're re-prioritising from road to cycle path and have 1 billion. kr extra for cycle paths. We cut the planning of new, large airports and motorways around the cities, prioritizing railway and collective bets and lightning planning for the benefit of both goods and people. We maintain the railway more. There are strong words from the government fraction with criticism of the decay of the railway in the red-green time. Even I think the government parties should be honest enough to admit that the maturity would be larger, sometimes significantly larger, with the opposition budgets of the government parties. We're more sure of race. It is worrying after a year with several serious tunnel industries that it is more important for the Minister of Transport and the majority to build new roads than to race and repair the unsafe tunnels we have. We say no to the red tape of road and rail and rear-facing competition, and we give priority to clean and safe air in the interests of driving a car, making healthy sick and sick sick people, and making the sickest ones die. No later than this weekend, there were levels of contamination harmful to health. The Minister for Transport has not taken a single initiative or action to create clean and safe air for those in the population living with health-related pollution, despite the fact that road traffic is the main problem and he has been sitting for over two years. I will end with something that I believe is serious about the relationship between big business and government, and that is the following: That the Council of State believes that he himself knows best, he shows by word and action. I believe, however, that the Council of States must give up when he gets the majority against him. And I believe that the Council of State shows contempt for the Storting when he chooses not to follow up a decision that was widely agreed. I think it is remarkable that the Committee on Transport does not arrest him for this. When Stortinget examined my proposed representative 106 S for 2014-2015, the Council of State opposed setting climate targets for the national transport plan. He'd rather make climate strategies. The whole Storting, with the exception of the Right and Advance Party, voted him down and ordered him to follow up with climate goals, but in the budget he again says that he wants to create climate strategies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e736	The time has come, and the President assumes that the representative will make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e739	The President has done this before. I'm taking up suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e744	Then the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås brought up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e749	The representative has an engaging way of talking, of course, but we don't agree with much of what's being put on as a premise. I want to go into geography in particular – when he talks about Oslo being able to control road projects in Akershus, I think it has very little to do with local democracy. And when you look at what Oslo has achieved by digging E18 through Bjørvika, what Oslo has achieved by having city renewal in areas where there were previously parking spaces, why shouldn't the same quality be established outside Oslo, for example. can dust and noise be eliminated from the existing road network, can areas be freed for urban development, can there be provision for bus, road, pedestrian and cycle routes in the country's sixth largest municipality? Why shouldn't the Akershus municipalities have the same offer that Oslo has had?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e754	Let me start by saying that I am in favour of a resolution of the situation in Sandvika. I believe that it is entirely in place that Sandvika gets a type of repair that allows a person to open the area in a completely different way from what it is today. I believe it is right to prioritise money for it within the E18 project. But what I'm opposed to is the capacity increase that it adds to the road section when it comes to the planned development of both its own local and extra collective tracks, which will increase the possibility of driving a car and thus get more emissions. Oslo has an ambition to reduce emissions by 50 pst. and reduce car traffic by 20 pst. towards 2020. I believe that it is a good principle that if one state does something that affects another, the other state must also have a decisive influence on the design. Especially since this is common money and is a spice layer, we must be allowed to prioritise this jointly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e759	SV has historically tried to mark itself and profile itself as an environmental party. If they have succeeded in doing so, they will fight well the learned, but especially in the opposition, SV has always been very offensive – and perhaps a little more moderate in position. But I think it's interesting to note that another party that has profiled itself very much on the environment, and that may have gained a greater credibility than SV in this area, namely the Left, believes they get more and better environmental policies also in the field of transportation, and especially in that case. railway, with forward party government other than with SV government. So isn't it just a little awkward for SV that the environmental party Left is pleased to cooperate with today's Right Party government, and actually seems that we might do more for the environment than SV did when SV put in government, and SV himself was responsible for the Ministry of the Environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e764	It's not surprising that people are walking around and boasting of themselves when, after all, they have established a government of the Advance Party and the Right, which can hardly be called environmental parties. But I don't need to talk down Left's efforts in opposition. I know what it's like to be an environmental party and run and fight with other parties that don't have equal ambitions, and I know how the left has it. But it's clear, what I'm responding to, and I feel the need to arrest the representatives from the Left for when they talk, is that this government delivers so much better on climate change than the previous government did. So during the previous government – from the first climate agreement until 2014 – it was like moving closer and closer to the climate agreement's target of 47 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent in 2020. Under this government, this has stood still, and the government's own reports show that it is not possible to achieve the goal in 2030. It is not a better environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e773	In the budget configuration of the Transport Committee, the four cooperation parties have a note to establish a national TT system for users with special transport needs, such as: blind and wheelchair users, a scheme tested in three counties. It is proposed to allocate 22 million. SEK to the 2016 half-yearly plan, amounting to 44 million. kr. As we know, SV is not in the Transport and Communications Committee. I would therefore like to know the position SV has in developing a national scheme for the group with special transport needs, and how quickly one might want to have a national scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e778	I would like to applaud the efforts that the Christian People's Party and the Left have made to put in place a principle decision on a national TT regime and a stepping-up plan for this. It's been fighting for too long, and I'm glad that now it seems that one can roll this out – if the council loyally follows up the Storting's decision. It is still unclear what this will look like, as it is not clear how to use the money put on the table in comparison with the government parties. The ambition of a stepping-up plan is our end, and the decision on a national TT system is our downside – and as I said, we applaud it. In our financial position, we also added money to this. We imagined this as a continuation of the trials and a gradual escalation, but now a principle of a national regime has been adopted, and we applaud that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e783	The representative looked away at the left and said he understands how we feel, as if we're having a very bad and difficult time, but we're really doing pretty well. We feel that we are moving in a greener direction, and we feel that we are actually getting quite a lot with the Advance Party in government. I noticed that the representative Holmås initially had questions to the committee leader that he hoped, and almost prayed to God that this budget would be taken care of, and that it would be given in a greener direction. If I were to challenge the representative Holmås: does he see that in the combination of the transport budget, both LPG, natural gas, sulphur tax, monthly card, intercity, railway, maintenance, bicycle, reward scheme, ferries or more environmentally friendly, electric cars peaced until 2018, air fare, etc. in the transport sector, and what is the representative's committee, i.e. the Committee on Energy and the Environment, where we take a great deal of action to move it in an environmentally friendly direction, does the Left actually get to some things that SV can enjoy on behalf of the environmental parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e788	Yeah, I see that left gets a lot of things, but I also see that they're working in reverse. We see that very, very clearly with regard to the climate targets for 2020, which the Left has got with the government to guarantee that you will strengthen, and which are not expected to be achieved in 2020, not even in 2030, if you are to trust the government's own investigations. Therefore, I would say that I do not think the effort is good enough. It has not primarily to do with the Left, but with the Right and the Advance Party. There's a lot of positive happening on the railway side, it's escalating, and we're contributing extra money, but in several areas nothing positive happens. It won't be more expensive to pollute with the government we now have. The conversion of car charges is puzzled, and too many roads are being expanded combined with public transport. Then you do not get the desired results.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e795	I think you could be a little bit more upset with each other, perhaps especially at Christmastimes and toward the end of the session. I have no problem understanding that SV was very involved with the Workers' Party. At the same time, we know that we've taken quite a grip. In fact, the Christian People's Party and the Left have had a green tax change, which seemed completely impossible together with the Workers' Party. Could the representative Holmås say, with SV's eyes, that it seems like – even if we are in a counter-tack, I should admit – that in the counter-tack we actually get more for the environment now than you get if the Workers' Party is in position? Can you be so clear and see that even with the counterrail, that is, the Advance Party, the country gets more greener profile than if the Workers' Party were in position?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e800	No, I don't see that, because that's not true. Instead of looking at himself in the mirror in the morning, Abid Raja should look at the statistics showing the evolution of greenhouse gas emissions. They clearly show that it is not going in the right direction and at the pace that both myself and the representative Raja agree that it should go. As I said, it won't be more expensive. In the budget left to be adopted, electricity is becoming more expensive – clean renewable electricity is becoming more expensive, but fossil energy is not becoming more expensive. How in the world is a green shift to be made, from fossil energy to renewable energy, when you do the opposite in the budget? I like to sit down and make the whole list of all things I think is necessary to achieve the climate goals in 2020. But right now, Abid Raja and the Left are at peace with a government that does not intend to achieve these goals. I think that's sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e805	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e808	The budget now decides, provides room for strong commitment to transport at so many different levels, both physically and physically, to build more new roads and railways, to facilitate better aviation and ports, to maintain what we have, to plan what we are going to build, and not least to facilitate more environmentally friendly and efficient transport on the infrastructure being built. It's kind of strange to hear the debate so far, where someone gives the impression that the environment doesn't mean anything. If you had gone through the list, you would have seen a lot of grips that reduce urban emissions, not least of CO2. This effort is taking place all over the country. The state road service has a record budget. What's interesting is that in all regions of the country, Vegvesenet sends out its press releases: in North Norway, they can now start reducing maintenance losses for the first time in many, many years. In the West, the increase in appropriations is in the billions class. But from the opposition we hear that this is too bad. It's a little strange that when you grow billions of dollars more than what you had, not just under the red-green ones, but in 2015 it's characterized as too bad. It bears witness to little willingness to innovate in reality. The budget has increased from 41 billion. SEK in 2013 to SEK 60 billion. kr in 2016. In three years we have almost 20 billion. to be made available in the transport sector. There's a lot of room for action, not least because we're not just thinking about how much money we have, but also about spending it in a better way. The government is doing a lot of that on the reform side. There are several things that matter. We're going to make everyday life better for commuters. By improving the travel experience and the efficiency of the journey people do 200 times a year, we can make the big difference. That's where you often experience queues and cork. That's where we can make the big environmental improvements. Then we're going to make sure that more goods travel collectively, that more goods use rail and ships to get there, but at the same time facilitate that we have a good, serious and safe truck industry in Norway that takes the last distances from terminals to the goal. There we are also very broad. It is about several roadside checks to take out the unprofessional operators from the truck industry, it is about infrastructure functioning. Just maintenance is one of the areas of activity where we do far more than planned in the national transport plan. I underline that because you give the impression that you don't do anything from or to the national transport plan. Yes, there is much more to maintenance than what was planned. The interesting thing is that even with the new NTP, the red-green government’s proposal for the 2014 budget was a reduction in the maintenance budget, not an increase, which was required. We are now reducing the maturity for the second consecutive year after many decades of growth. Where the red-greens in the 2014 budget proposed to spend a total of 5.1 billion. kr on road and rail renewal and maintenance, is budgeted for 2016 – only two fiscal years later – at approx. $9.5 billion. kr. There's a difference. Not least because in the time we're in now with turbulence in the oil industry in some states, this creates important jobs. Last Friday, I visited CargoNet. They could say that only in the last two years had the number of train departures cancelled down to one third of the usual level in the years before, because the infrastructure is now working. Then customers say that with the frequency we now have, with the reliability, goods on the railway are much more attractive. Our policies work, the market responds. The other area is planning more for the future. It is good to be able to read in Stavanger AFTENblad that the planners in Vegvesenet say: Before we were planning one and one small parcel, now we are planning 20 miles at a time. That gives us completely different possibilities. This shows that the policy is working. The railway station had a total of 46 million in its third year of ageing. kr in the planning budget. That was the year they were going to present their national transport plan. Forty-six million. kr had the profession on the railway. In 2016 it will have 1,144 million. kr. It gives a completely different space of action and a completely different credibility when you're betting on the railway. If we were to reach the red-green level for the NTP railway, we would actually have to cut the rail budget by about 2.5 billion. kr. It says something about how today's majority are strongly in favour of this. It is not enough just to plan and believe that things are being built. In that case, we had already had a fantastic motorway system in this country after the Workers' Party presented its national motorway plan in 1963. Plans must be followed up by action. This is seen in the investment budget of the government and what is adopted in the Stortinget. We are accelerating a number of road projects, for example RV. 70 and E 39 Bjørset-Skei. We implement the plans that have been, both on the road and on the railway. Then we take care of traffic safety. There has been a long-term cross-political work. The statistics are going in the right direction, but after all, we're probably talking about about about 120 people killed on the roads in 2015. We're far from the goal. That work needs to be strengthened. But we're building more middle parts, we're building more rump fields, we're building more bike paths than what was originally planned, and that's to reinforce road safety work. We're going to develop cities that become more environmentally friendly, better for people to live in and that better solve traffic challenges. From Oslo S there are about 114 more train departures each day now compared to just a short time ago. Oslo Municipality receives four times more money in the public transport reward scheme compared to the first two years under today's majority, compared to the last two years under the previous majority. We are negotiating urban environmental agreements and have already begun to grant money to e.g. The fornebuban, where the state says we're going to take half of the bill, far more than what's inside the national transport plan. The budget is added to the cycle path and reconciled to an increase of 60 pst. Compared to the 2015 budget. In goods, we cooperate with the ports, we get in place to cut the disembarkation fee, we have reformed the unloading system. This also means that more goods go by sea, and so we can get a few more trucks off the roads. It also contributes to a better environment. On the toll side, we have proposed a toll reform. I think it's sad that the Workers' Party and the Centre cut all attempts to reduce the toll rates and the load on the drivers, but I'm glad you've got a majority with the Christian People's Party and the Left to move on with the money to cut the bets, and that we're getting green light, for example. to look at a government loan scheme that may give lower interest rates directly into the toll projects. There was something the previous government rejected, but as today's government is now working on. The post office is doing an important job with the physical delivery of letters and parcels around the country. There we see that the market is changing through more digitisation. The post office also gets several packages to deliver, but fewer letters. New postal laws are to be introduced during 2016. The post Norway is well positioned, and I look forward to the work to be done there. In aviation, we are making it possible for Avinor to expand more airports better and faster, by making less profits. Avinor has also proved to be an effective company that manages its economy in a good way. We've reduced Avinor's charges from airlines for airport purposes. At the same time, we are facilitating the development of Ferne airport into a charter airport. So we have a special arrangement for that aerodrome. The telecoms sector is a fantastic area, not only because it allows even better communication in speech, and not least digital between people, but also because it will be involved in reforming the transport sector. It's invested between 6 and 8 billion. kr per year in that sector. I find it a bit strange to hear from the Workers' Party that the market does not matter in this, and therefore there are support schemes that are the success criterion – a market that thus adds 6 to 8 billion. kr on the table of the sector. Yesterday I was with Netcom, TeliaSonera, speeding up the world record within the existing 4G network by calling it 4.5G. It gives us the opportunity to think that we can have wireless broadband around the districts instead of fiber cables. Here are the possibilities, and we have to choose the solutions that give the most access to telecoms for the lowest possible money. This is also important, because when we're going to have visions about where we're going in the future, we don't just have to think that we're going to build more roads and railways, even if the government adds up to it. We also have to make sure that we can use that infrastructure more efficiently. Then ITS – intelligent transport systems – and the technology around it is very important. The government has therefore had extensive cooperation both with other countries and different industries to ensure that we build infrastructure and facilitate legislation in order to get more autonomous vehicles on the roads, more railways on the same tracks. We also have to make sure that the infrastructure at the bottom works. Therefore, the development of fibre cables and 4G networks – 5G networks in the long term – is very important in the overall transport policy. I'm proud of what we do. We're far from the goal, but the course is absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e855	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e858	Let me start by saying that I note that the Council of State took the signal from the debate yesterday and calmed down the adjective use and the characterisation of its political opponents. It serves the Council of State in honor. So one explanation: if he realizes that we're dissatisfied with the fact that the government is fulfilling our NTP, on the contrary, we're very pleased that you're trying to realize it in general. In some areas you're at the front to get it done, in some areas you're a little bit behind. Then I have to remind the Council of State that we are discussing the 2016 budget of the Workers' Party, and not the budget we submitted in 2014. This weekend, a comprehensive climate agreement with ambitious objectives was adopted to limit the increase in global temperature to 1.5 degrees. The transport sector accounts for approx. one third of domestic emissions. When does the Council of State believe that climate change emissions from this sector will start to decline, and how will the Council of State contribute to the actual achievement of next year? His colleague in the government has said that dramatic changes are required in the transport sector. When is that going to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e867	Let me first reiterate that, as far as the national transport plan is concerned, of course, the majority of today's people implement all the proposals we ourselves voted for in 2013. In addition, we're doing a lot more, and that's why it would be irresponsible if we just implemented the red-green NTP, because then we had to cut the railway appropriations by 2.5 billion. kr to get to that level. I think that would be very unfortunate. In addition, we are implementing a number of reforms that were not planned by the previous government. However, let me say that in the case of climate and transport, it is a little strange to hear a debate where the opposition gives the impression that nothing has happened. Let me just give you a few examples: an enhanced green shift is inserted at the ship's speed – 40 million. kr to new technology. It is a support programme for, for example: charge current to ships, charging stations for electric cars, and 20 million. kr in the pilot plant for biogas plants. We have increased urban environmental agreements, and we're way ahead of form in terms of the reward scheme. The electricity charge for ships in commercial transport has been reduced, and we're building 60 pst. more walking and cycling routes through the 2016 budget. The railway budget has increased by 50 pst. after the government change. [[President clubs]] The one-off charge for the vehicle is changed... and mass more than the size permit me to say in 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e875	I'm glad the Council of State thinks he's delivering as he's promised. I think a lot of his constituents disagree with that, because the level of ambition of the Progress Party when they were in opposition was beyond the actual level that is now. But it's a matter that the Council of State has to take with its voters at the next crossroads. What I asked was not all the measures that you have taken. My question was linked to the fact that we have entered into an ambitious agreement and committed the nation in Paris. We need to get down. We need to get down. We need to get down. Is it that we should just wait for what comes in the national transport plan? Or is it that you're going to change and think that well, transport, which accounts for one third of the emissions, is going to contribute already next year? Is it that the Council of State is forward and has an idea of what he wants, or are we just waiting for further investigations? I want to use the last few seconds to ask the Council of State, which is constantly concerned with what happened in the 1960s when we had a motorway plan: does the Council of State know why that highway plan was not realized?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e884	I believe it is important that we understand the past to see who delivered what is happening today, because then we can also assess who is acting and do something about the issues that need to be resolved for the future. The working party is right: the progress party is much more ambitious than the red-green government was. We should have had an even greater majority to increase the stakes even more, but it's interesting that the Labour Party itself admits at least that if they're going to see who wants the most in society policy, you have to look at the Progress Party, so I thank you for that. Then we're going to continue to increase the allocation in many of these areas. When it comes to where we're going in the climate, first of all, I remind you that we've said that we're going to come back when we have the Paris agreement. Then we have a framework to deal with, and then we're going to cooperate with the EU to get things in place. Then it's a little strange to get criticism on the environmental side from a party that was itself involved and ‘poured up’ the sale of diesel cars in this country, and that actually produced an oil message that predicted increased CO2 emissions, while the climate communication that was presented at the same time said lower CO2 emissions, so double communication marked more climate policy than the action force level.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e901	I guess we're familiar with the government council being a happy man. A visit to his office can confirm that. Now that the new majority on Stortinget has invested more in both the construction of new roads and increased maintenance, it is because we know something about the importance of the road for increased value creation and road safety, and not least – the car has come to stay. So in the future, the question is not a car, but how we can contribute to the development of a low-emission vehicle, so that we can achieve our climate goals in 2020 and 2030. Can we count on an equally offensive state council to develop a low-emission vehicle policy as working on new and better maintained roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e908	I'm pretty much happy with everything that has wheels and motors, it's like trains, buses, cars, etc. What's important here, as the representative mentions, is that it's not the roads in themselves that create emissions, but it's the vehicles that a user on top of them, and it should also have been a long way to go because of more parties than just today's four majority parties. There the government and the Left and Christian People's Party have helped to help us now have a policy that facilitates the purchase of electric cars and low-emission cars much longer than originally planned. Through the fiscal budget agreement last year, more hybrid cars were added. In addition, we have set up a biogas strategy, low-carbon fuel to be purchased. We have a charging strategy on which the Christian People's Party has been involved. All of this gives an infrastructure, it gives a technology development on fuel, and it gives purchases, in a way, of capital, of vehicles, that go in the right direction. And then we're going to do a lot more in terms of urban development in order to get the emission reductions even more clearly out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e913	There was a lot that the Council of State took up in its article that I could think of and put a line on. But I'm going to ask about one thing, and it's a little about what the council said in a previous line when he said he was happy about everything that had wheels on. Then I hope the council has excused me, because aircraft also have wheels. In the national budget presented by the government itself early in October, on page 82: ‘Extra measures in Norway for ETS will not contribute to the reduction of the total emissions of aviation in the EEA territory.’;» Then I would like to ask the Council of State exactly what has now made a claim that such a charge has an effect on the climate?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e923	With regard to the fare for seats, there was a result of the budget negotiations. And as the representative Raja correctly pointed out, when the opposition believes it will give fewer flights, it's natural that there will also be less emissions because those flights don't take place. When it comes to the debate on the fare for the flight seat itself, it is a little strange that the Central Party is the party that takes it up in the line change. Last year the Center Party was out and demanded that we remove the tax-free arrangements at all the airports. It would have meant that Torp and Rygge would be put down immediately because they had lost their income – which creates profits. That would mean that Avinor had lost 2.5 billion. kr in revenue from its activities which would give rise to a levy increase far above that currently adopted in the budget. So if you're concerned about the level of charges at airports, at least the policy that the Central Party has demanded in opposition, which would be the most devastating for Norwegian aviation both in terms of charges and revenues from the non-state airports with foreign traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e930	I think the Christian People's Party and the Left together with the government and the Council of State are getting very well together, and it also shows this budget. So we can have a different view of why the emissions are going down. It could be because we're busy bringing down CO2 emissions, NOx or local pollution. But I think the Council of State agrees that emissions are a udder and should initially go down. There might be different reasons for this. I understand and respect that – that we can have different angles of incidence. The Environment Directorate proposed this summer that, in order to achieve our climate objectives by 2030, all new cars sold from 2025 must be cars on renewable fuels and heavy transport from 2030 must go on renewable fuels: bio, hydro, electricity, etc. My question to the Council of State is. What kind of infrastructure does the government plan to set in motion now, so that these renewable fuel targets can be met, and not least that we can put renewable cars of all kinds into place and that the infrastructure is in place within these years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e947	We already have arrangements with, for example: appropriations for pilot schemes for biogas plants and those types of things. We have money support that makes it possible to build several charging stations. At the same time, I must stress that the best we can do is get a car industry and an energy industry that commercialises this, so that one does not depend on state subsidies, but that one actually has gas stations across the country today without state contributions and gets an energy infrastructure for alternative fuels in place. Then it's absolutely right -- I'm to cut all environmentally harmful emissions. That is what the government is doing through the list I took up from the Workers' Party, which could also be much longer. Some of the worst things that have happened on the environment were when the previous government made diesel cars much cheaper to buy. This gave you a top where 75 pst of car sales just four years ago were diesel cars versus 40 pst. today, while the electric car share has risen sharply. So the evolution has actually gone in the very right direction. I remember that when Marit Arnstad was Minister of Transport, she said that she would not have a diesel car ban in Oslo, and she would not have her own diesel fee. So there's a story of this that's larger than someone gives the impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e956	I'd like to have the Council's crocodile tears called me for that increased diesel car sales. He is himself a man who has never made a single proposal to make sure to reduce the proportion of diesel cars or the proportion of local polluting cars after he came into government, but has been pressured into that kind of thing of his collaboration parties and opposition. Let me ask another question about the climate. It's not like climate emissions are something you can look at piece by piece, as the Council of State does when he reads out all the measures and what it is he and the government wants to do to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. I measure the government on the results they achieve from the whole of the policy. That's how I actually thought that the Progress Party and Right people used to think, too. That is why I ask the very simple question: has the Council joined the climate agreement through the cooperation declaration – what kind of emissions target from the transport sector by 2020 does it operate after reaching?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e963	Getting such claims from a former minister who has a moon landing on his coat as the leading failure statement for climate policy, I think it is a little strange. What's more important for today's government is that we cut emissions. In the field of transport, there are currently no binding objectives in Europe. It's a quota area where we have obligations, and there we've been clear and said from many times in Stortinget. It is strange that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås has not got it with him. We'll come back when we see what the Paris negotiations gave. We need to find different targets for the different sectors. The most important thing is that we as a nation are able to cut the emissions. There I'm very proud that we four parties actually have a lot of tools going on that, in sum, will give emission reductions. I remind you again that when the representative Eidsvoll Holmås joined the government, the government did so first to provide a climate report that said that the emissions from the oil industry would fall. Then they put forward an oil message that said that the emissions were going to rise as a result of oil policy. There wasn't a lot of connection then -- there's a bigger connection now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e970	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e974	It is consistently so in the Committee on Transport and Communications' budgeting that the Co-operation Party, in its comments, is satisfied with its government's efforts, while the Labour Party claims that there is more and better transport effort in our alternative budget. The government is primarily behind the adopted NTP for the priority of transport, and not so much what was the government's stated ambitions before the government's formation. There is reason to remind you that the current NTP was signed under the government of Stoltenberg II, and with the majority we had at that time. Comments can say a lot about policy orientation and desire, but the figures behind the comments are also an important point of reference, and the numerical basis for the budgetary position is also worth noting: with 463 million. kr more than the government of Solberg on transport, the Workers' Party will strengthen the conversion towards more environmentally friendly transport and infrastructure. And compared to the budgetary agreement between the government and the cooperation party, the Labour Party's alternative budget is 387 million. I'm going to go over this. I'm going to go over this. We're adding a stake on rail and public transport and bicycle roads that's much stronger than the government's plan, i.e. 1.2 billion. kr. Although the budgetary agreement naturally implies the establishment of a multiplicity behind the use of money, the Committee's position shows that in important areas, there are also large numbers of people against the government. In particular, I would like to refer to the title of the "Environmental Agreements", where a number of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, point out that the decision to introduce time-differentiated tolls in Bergen has demonstrated a clear willingness to implement restrictive measures against passenger car transport in order to improve air quality in Bergen. This majority note that local processes have shown a lack of courage after accessing additional tools that were drawn in the same direction, such as: permit the introduction of environmentally differentiated tolls and low emission zones. The government must pay particular attention to the fact that this majority is now asking the government to follow up the decisions of the Inst as soon as possible. 159 S from last year. These decisions, which were taken in March of this year in the Grand Duchy, are intended to propose a means of delimiting the use of cars on national roads during periods when air pollution is high, and are requested to give the municipalities a place in the road traffic laws to create low-emission zones. Although air quality does not seem to have been better in our big cities, I can't see that something has happened from the government's side since the Storting made these decisions. In December 2014, Norway received the votes of ESA before the EFTA Court due to a lack of action against breach of the limit values of the Air Quality Directive. And so it was with the background of this that this March 17th Parliament decided to pray: ‘The government proposes to authorise municipalities under the Road Traffic Act to establish low-emission zones’. On 2 October this year, the judgment against Norway in the EFTA Court, because Norway, in spite of several deadlines, had failed to come up with a binding plan of measures on low-emission zones. The National Audit Office recently presented its study of the authorities’ work on ensuring good air quality in urban areas. It was found here that the Swedish Institute of Public Health is breaking its limit values in all the municipalities that paint this, and most hours of breaking the limit values have us in Oslo, Drammen, Fredrikstad, Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim, with between 200 and 400 hours. In addition, we know that cities like Bergen and Oslo, much due to weather conditions, sometimes tired of having a «tox lid» lying motionless over the city core over several days. It is now urgent to put in place a legal framework for low-flow zones in order to be able to implement measures to combat health-threatening air pollution in an outsourced urban area. Of course, people living in our cities need to be greeted first and foremost, but it is also urgent that we avoid, right after Paris, being re-elected before the EFTA Court because we do not have measures to combat health-threatening urban air. The representative Abid Raja said that the Christian People's Party and the Left had so much to do with this government. But in this field, they had gotten a lot more speed with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1009	This is the third year in which governments and cooperative parties deliver a budget for transport with a historically high growth rate. It's a transport budget that addresses the major challenges, where the appropriations both on the road and on the track are record high, but there is also an ability to think new, so that we can get the most out of each krone. The situation in the autumn of 2013, after the red-greens had been running for eight years by a purely majority, was not particularly rosy. For what was that characteristic of the situation at that time? Yes: The maintenance shift was record high both on the road and on the track, and the decay had increased every year under the red-green regime. The planning time was disproportionately long, about ten years on average. Both road and track were planned and built piece by piece and divided. The cost growth of road construction was alarmingly high, with almost a double in the last ten years. Therefore, good transport policy is about much more than increased frameworks. It's about how we spend the money, and how we can get the most back for every penny invested. In three consecutive budgets, governments and cooperation parties have increased their commitment to maintenance. It has been absolutely necessary to start reducing the maturity that built up over many years with red-green rule, both on the road and on the track. Now people start to notice this in their everyday lives, and we see an improvement in road accessibility and road safety along our roads and an increased regularity on the railways. Priority shall be given to maintenance and renewal. In addition, it is important that we continue the good work we are doing to reduce the planning time by increasing the use of a government plan where it is appropriate, cutting unnecessary investigations where appropriate, and reducing the number of state objections through better coordination — just to mention some examples. Shorter planning means faster implementation of the projects and is a good social economy. It has been absolutely necessary to create greater predictability in Norwegian road construction. It is therefore gratifying that, before the summer, we dealt with the communication in the right direction, with the government's many reforms in the road sector, and that we are spending 1.3 billion in the 2016 budget. kr to Nye Weier AS. It will provide us with a new tool for faster and more efficient road construction, becoming an organisation that is both challenging and complementary to the state road system, and can contribute to innovation and other ways of working. The goal must be that we get more for each of the heads we use. Public-private cooperation, or OPS, is another tool we use to streamline road construction. In the same way as the road carrier, it will contribute to the development, investment and operation of the route, and contribute to increased predictability of funding and progress. The budget for 2016 sets out the means of planning and preparatory work for the three projects so far adopted by OPS. It will ensure good progress and rapid realization. Last Saturday 195 countries adopted a historic climate agreement in Paris. Achieving the objectives set in Paris will require many and important actions from all countries, and the transport sector will also be an important part of this. There are many ways to tackle this challenge. We can make it possible for more people to use time, bicycles and collectives. In cities in particular, this is necessary to achieve the target of lower emissions, but also to ensure their accessibility. The government parties, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have given this high priority in all budgets. This means record rail betting, new measures for increased use of bicycles and good collective reward schemes. All of this will make a positive contribution. The goods analysis shows that a large part of the goods go by sea. It is important that one with the growth of freight in the years to come continues to use the seaway as a preferred alternative. Effective ports, good arrangements for evidence of fairway and reduced fees, e.g.: The unbundling charge is measures that contribute to the competitiveness of maritime transport. However, the most important thing is to develop new technologies. Enova has been strengthened and is an important tool in this context. The tax regime for electric cars has proved to be effective, where Norway is a leading country. At the same time, it is important that the State uses its order function, as we do when new tenders for ferries are to be published. Strict environmental requirements reduce emissions and will be a competitive advantage for Norwegian enterprises, while contributing to the renewal of the ferry. The most important thing must be to develop new technologies that contribute to low and zero emissions regardless of the mode of transport. Finally, this is a good budget for increased accessibility, improved road safety and more environmentally friendly transport, both of goods and persons. And it facilitates increased efficiency in road and runway construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1050	This weekend, the world’s country concluded with an ambitious plan to limit the effects of greenhouse gas emissions. We know that the transport sector represents 30 pst. of the total Norwegian climate emissions. Measures within the sector are therefore absolutely necessary to reduce emissions. This won't happen by itself. Should the companies and the traveller really change course, predictability and clear signals are needed. Minister of Transport Solvik-Olsen is the most important climate minister besides the climate minister himself. Minister for Climate and Environment Tine Sundtoft clearly states that the transport sector must be responsible for a large part of greenhouse gas emissions cuts. It is a task the Minister of Transport so far seems to have little both the ability and the willingness to give priority. Both the climate agreement and the current national transport plan state that traffic growth in and around the major cities is to be taken by collective, bicycle or gangways. The zero growth target is absolutely crucial for the unity that world leaders have now set as ambition. The working party will invest 10 billion. kr for climate and collective action in major cities over 10 years. We're following up on last year's proposal and we're proposing 700 million. kr more than the government for that purpose for 2016. There is little good for the Right-Fremskritsparti-government to talk about public transport when they both underfinance the urban environment agreements for next year compared to the ambition of the national transport plan, while at the same time tightening the economic space of the counties and making cuts. This goes directly beyond public transport. The Labour Party strengthens the framework for the county municipalities by 600 million. kr. But we know that's not enough. The State must take special responsibility for the development and operation of urban and bus lines with their own tracks. This is essential for good transport solutions in major cities and implies that, after negotiations with the municipalities, the State will assume responsibility for up to 70 pst. by collective investment in large cities. Important projects such as the Urban Railway in Bergen, the Bus Road Project in Stavanger, the T-Bahn Tunnel through Oslo inner city and the Trondheim superbus project are to be carried out. In view of the overall focus on public transport, it is also worth mentioning the TT scheme. The government proposes once again to wind up the scheme with a pen stroke, or a black stripe on a paper. This isn't just a pen stroke or a black stripe on a paper for them – this is a rage of good quality of life that those people deserve in the same way as everyone else. The working party is engaged in the TT scheme and wishes to make it a national scheme. We therefore have in our proposal an allocation of 20 million. kr to the TT scheme. Climate is not one thing, it cannot be understood as one thing, but climate is a framework around all the issues we are discussing. The transport sector is and will be an important area of action, and the government has a special responsibility to lead the transition to the renewable society in such a way that it is brought to the nursery when it is needed, and in such a way that the transport of food is found in a timely manner in the best energy-efficient and climate-neutral way. This must happen without going at the expense of the possibilities of those who come after us. In meeting these challenges, the Labour Party believes that we should strengthen and not weaken the social fabric that has made Norway the country it is today. Big challenges have knocked on our door before, and we've proven that we can make big changes. Now it's time for the government to take responsibility and do the right priorities, and I can't see that the government parties do that in their proposal for the state budget for the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1069	The 2016 budget is a budget for work, activity and migration. By increasing the transport budget, the government builds the country and takes Norway safely through the changeover. Strong commitment to maintenance contributes to more work and increased activity in a situation of reduced oil price and increasing unemployment. The objective of the Right-wing Party Government is to make its infrastructure a competitive advantage of the nation. The budget and transport reforms place considerable emphasis on new major projects, but also take better care of what we have already built. The initiative will increase road safety and accessibility for citizens and link and strengthen housing and labour market regions. With the proposed increase in the operating and maintenance frameworks on both national and rail routes, the maintenance run can be reduced in 2016. The draft budget for 2016 will reduce national roads and railways by about 1.3 billion respectively. kr and 0,5 brd. kr. This results in a quality improvement of the infrastructure, with increased road safety and a more punctual and predictable railway. The government is delivering record bets on the railway. There is full progress on all major projects, and we go into another year with reduced maintenance kits. A total of 9.9 billion is allocated. kr for investments in the railway infrastructure. This is 1.3 billion. kr lower than the 2015 budget, which is due to a lower expenditure requirement for the large on-going investment projects. However, the important thing is that the amount covers the allocation needs of all railway projects carried out under the plans. The allocation to Folloban is increasing by about 980 million. DKK to about 4,1 billion. kr in 2016. Furthermore, the appropriations for the planning of new railway installations are increasing. This applies, inter alia, to: The IC extension with the Ringerix Railway. It is worth noting that the adopted NTP 2014-2023 refers to the Ringerix Railway: ‘It is set at 1.5 billion. kr for planning and starting the Ringerix track in the last six-year period’» – i.e. the period 2018-2023. So the fact that one has already come this far in the planning process is a massive redundancy of the project. The transport sector shall contribute to the green shift. Obligations to cut climate emissions by at least 40 pst. by 2030 it shall remain in place. Cuts in emissions from the transport sector are becoming important. Several measures need to be taken: The overall transport needs must be reduced and cycled and multiplied to take a greater share of the transport needs. It is about the organisation through smart planning related to the location of workplaces and dwellings. Public authorities have a responsibility here with their location of their own workplaces. Means of transport must become cleaner. Here I feel that we are doing well with both zero-emission solutions and increased use of more environmentally friendly fuels. We need a faster replacement of the car park. Here, charging policy is important. It is, of course, also essential that the international car industry now has a hard time generating vehicles that will meet tomorrow's emission requirements. It is necessary to facilitate attractive public transport services on rails and roads. In a country like Norway, the bus will be the most important means of public transport for the future. Attractive public transport is about capacity, regularity, frequency and surface coverage. It's not just about rails, it's also about roads. ICT will be an important part of the green shift. The use of new technologies throughout transport – from automated trains and self-driving cars to traffic management and environmental differentiation. Urban environment agreements are important. There is broad agreement on the need for major cities to carry out large collective actions. However, it is important that there is a link between the planning processes and the timing of the allocations. It is worth noting that even with a large state contribution it will be demanding for municipalities and counties to find cover for their share of the costs. We note that from day one, the parties of government, the Christian People's Party and the Left have committed themselves to a state grant of 50 p.m. The majority are therefore satisfied that the budget is sufficient to enter into the first urban environmental agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1110	Saturday was a party day. Then the new double track opened along Mjösa, at least the first part of the new double track. 17 km with top modern railway in Eidsvoll and Stage. The Minister of Transport was in the shape of the opening, and it was forgotten that his party voted against the same double track when the matter was being dealt with in the Stortinget in 2011. And I agree, it doesn't fit to rip up in the old side run when it's invited to a wedding party. Yesterday opened a new Hövik station. Now we see the results of ten years of investment on the railway. We're getting more new railways, and we're getting more new train equipment. Therefore, passengers are flowing to the NSB, and it is true that the NSB freight company CargoNet is now going the right way. We have to move on. We now need to keep up the planning work on the intercity sections, so that we have completed double-tracks to Hamar, Fredrikstad and Tønsberg in 2024, about which the Stortinget gathered in the treatment of the national transport plan, and to Lillehammer, Halden and Skien by 2030, and we should actually see if we can get it out faster to the extremes Lillehammer, Halden and Skien than in 2030. We have to set up a new tunnel through Oslo. We have to get started on the Ringerix track and a new double track between Arna and Voss. We have to renovate the Kongswingerbahn and the Gjøvikbahn. We need to get started on the connection of the Vestfold railway to the Sørlandsbanen. We need to speed up the electrification of the Trander Railway and the Meråker Railway and the Solørbahn and the Røros Railway, and therefore it was very interesting what the Railway Station now presented about electrification just before the weekend. If there's something that concerns me among all the positive things that happen on the railway, it's the huge cost increase for railway development, in particular for road development, but especially for railway development. The cost growth is formidable. Small contracts have been tried and large contracts have been tried, many different instruments have been tried, and price increases in any case. We now have to make sure that a lot of money on the railway is not eaten up by cost growth. Then there is a lot of good work going on in our big cities, of course from the urban areas and surrounding areas themselves, but also from the railway works and the state road system. The state must contribute on the investment side of our urban areas, thus helping to put infrastructure in place so that we get more traffic across the bus and over on rails, and the state must contribute significantly to projects such as the new T-Bahn Tunnel in Oslo, the Rome Railway to Aarhus and further to Lillestrøm and Kjeller, the Fornebubanen, the Urban Railway in Bergen, the superbus project in Trondheim, the Bussveien project in Stavanger and perhaps also more projects. So finally, an observation after working on transport issues for many years: in the past, it has been arranged to merge the state road system and the railway system, i.e. to put in place a common transport unit. That's what it argues for, and that's what it argues against. I'm not going to go into that debate today, but in any case, I see that there is ever closer contact between the two modes of transport, ever closer contact and ever closer cooperation between the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency. I think that is very good, yes, in fact I have registered that when representatives from one department were to attend meetings, and it sets up a representative from the other department instead, the meeting is just as good – close and close cooperation between the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency for the benefit of coordinated transport planning and for the benefit of finding coordinated transport solutions. I think that's very good, and maybe we'll see the contours of a common transport rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1125	‘Trafficking is not only about money, but also about organisation’, it said to read in Bergen’s Official Journal in the fall. It was in connection with the Ringerik Railway – the country's oldest non-existing railway train, first discussed 125 years ago. Road and track planning in Norway has a long tradition of extensive and time-consuming processes. When this government has now got through both the Ringerix Railway and the E16, it shows that it was actually possible to find more effective solutions for planning, even for construction. Planning and building of roads at the same time could lead to better and more efficient solutions. As a hordal, I would like to take the opportunity to thank everyone, both locally and centrally, who has stood by and fought for a rapid clarification of the E16 Arna–Voss and Vosebanen. And it's gone fast. From the last edition came on the table, it only went three months until the election was taken by the government. There are still critical comments from the opposition that the plan work is too late for E16 Bergen–Voss, so this process has gone so fast that the Working Party in the Notebook apparently did not hang completely. The so-called K5 solution currently selected between Arna and Voss means in short: a journey time between Arna and Voss of 46 minutes by car and 24 minutes by train of four-field road from Arna to Romeslo, and then a new two-field road with a mid pull to Voss double-track railway all the way But most of all: a safe journey for all of us! And yes, transportation is also about money. In 2016, the transport sector has had a historical framework of just over 60 billion. kr. This results in great activity, in work and in new infrastructure that facilitates conversion. While we're building a new one, we've also turned decay into renewal, and the decay is now reduced both on the road and on the track. This government is showing innovation in several areas. The OPS project, road reform, rail reform and toll reform are all necessary measures that are largely concerned with organisation, but which – most importantly – should make the travel record day for people and businesses using the infrastructure more comparable to the one they are experiencing today, both with regard to emergence and – not least – security. The working party and the red-greens have so far shown the greatest eagerness to fight the reforms and everything similar to change. In good tradition after eight years at the rudder, where report after report was presented with alarming needs for road, rail and network development, they have voted against new ideas and better solutions. ‘Trafficking is not only about money, but also about organisation’, as I said. That's exactly what we in the Right have claimed for a long time. Now, when we're shown confidence in ruling the country and we've got the power to do something about the system, we're actually doing it. Broadband is an example that definitely shows that organisation is important and that good organisation is needed to enable all actors to contribute to the achievement of their goals. The government is busy facilitating the optimal participation of commercial operators and providing supplements only where it is obvious that the market is not working. The 2016 Transport Budget is expansive, and it should be. It responds to the challenges now faced by the country, and it provides a good basis for the absolutely necessary transformation required.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1165	‘Work for all is job number one’, is the main focus of the 2016 budget. ‘Look to the north. More often. It's a long way from this country. Most of it is north.’ That's what Rolf Jacobsen says. Good transport solutions are important for the whole country, and it binds this long-range country together. Transport is therefore important in order to allow people to live throughout the country, and it contributes to increasing employment. The government of Stoltenberg II started the journey promise of the times – let it be clear – and ended its period of government with the current national transport plan. It opened up large investments in the transport sector in the period we are now in. It was the most ambitious plan of the time for the renewal of the transport sector with a growth of 65 pst. And a 508-billion-dollar frame. kr. I am pleased that the sitting government has the ambition to follow up the ambitious national transport plan that we presented. However, it is also important to remember that adopted transport plans, on which they are now trying to deliver, are far below what they themselves opted for, and what they proposed in 2013. I can also note, although I note that the Council of State still wants to talk about 2014, that not only in 2015, but also in 2016 the Labour Party has more to do with culture than the government and what is in the majority proposals. But the government is not following up in all areas. Our country isn't just a long way, there's also a lot of distances that are out of the way. Yesterday, the State Road Administration presented its racial protection map on the highways of the state and state of North Norway. It showed a need of 18 billion. kr. Then it is strange that the government as a whole reduces the allocation for rickshaws and county roads by 262 million. kr in 2016 compared to the 2015 budget. The working party is committed to finding good solutions for both city and country. Good roads, air services, railways and good collective solutions are important. But good telecom solutions are also important throughout the country. Today, we have a digital class distinction between densely built strips and scattered strips. Now, if we look at the expansion of high-speed broadband, today we have 94 pst. of households in densely populated areas of access, while only 32 pst. have the same in spread-constructed struts. One of the ways to improve this is to increase the grant scheme. It is therefore incomprehensible that the government is also proposing this year to reduce this level to only one third. The need is great. That is what we are looking at here. In 2014, a total of 700 million were applied for. NOK 645 million was applied for this year. NOK, and then there is little to make suggestions of 50 and 51,5 million. kr. Both parts must – it is not that the solution of the Council of State and the government, that this must be managed alone, works. It doesn't work alone -- we've seen that, not least of the numbers of scattered settlements. That's not how the Council of States tries to say, that we just want to support. No, we both want – the market too. But where the market doesn't want to fix or doesn't have the economy to fix, we have to come in with subsidies. For many in this country, the flight offer is part of their collective offer and is a part of binding the country together. That's why we're very surprised to see that we have a government that makes it more expensive to fly with its new flight fee of over 1 billion. kr. We are already seeing that this has consequences for the flight offer. I want to remind the government that for many, the flight offer is the only option, in addition to perhaps the private car. Therefore, the Workers’ Party does not support the proposal to impose this levy. This will hit the districts extra hard, which already has high prices on its flight routes. Me and we believe this will lead to increased costs and threaten to maintain the offer of the least profitable flight routes, and not just in the districts. Yesterday we could read that Moss airport has to shut down next year, and that this can affect as much as 1000 jobs. The commuters are hit hard. The council said that it was better for commuters – yes, at least not financially, when you go in and cut the deduction and tax the kilometre compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1206	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1209	For a long time, we have heard from the Right and the Advance Party that trade and industrial development belong together, and that the framework conditions for trade are essential for creating new jobs. That's really a big deal. But what do the government parties do to the Right and to the Advance Party? They can't even figure out the sum of 10 million. kr for upgrading the port of Borg. They are therefore unable to do so until they are forced to do so through negotiations with other parties. Nor do we find that there is any extension of the railway in Østfold. It was clearly promised that if the Advance Party and the Right came into government, this would be built much faster than originally planned. A lot of people believed that. Now they've all been disappointed. And then the Right Party and the Advance Party clone with a new state fee on aircraft seats, a government fee that only in Eastfold will lead to hundreds of jobs at risk – on a national basis thousands. You can wonder: How is that possible? How did it become possible for the Progress Party to become a taxing party to tax aviation and jeopardize the development of industry and existing jobs? How was it possible for the Right to believe that such a State charge on air seats is more important than the choice of better framework conditions for industrial development in districts? It is impossible to understand that representatives from the Progress Party and the Right can get in the way of a State seat charge that can reduce the number of jobs. Talk about changing policies, talking about fooling their own voters! I'm going to repeat Tor Prøitz, a member of the Right and of the Transport and Economic Affairs Committee in the Eastfold County Municipality. He says that the air passenger charge “will result in Smoking being dead” during 2016, and that by losing base aircraft “it will not be the basis for further operations and approx. 1000 people will lose their jobs». What is it that the Right County Member Tor Prøitz has understood that the Right Party has not understood – and the Minister for Transport – its own representatives of the Progress Party have not understood? Then I just have to briefly flip into a number that I updated yesterday afternoon: NOK 17 502,972 000 in tolls collected since the Progress Party entered the government – and no proposal is to see any place from the government to bring down the toll collection. There is little joy in defending the budget from the position. It might be because now people out there can see what they actually stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1226	Today, we are dealing with a good and forward-looking budget for culture, which is given a majority with the government parties Right and Advance Party and the cooperation parties Christian People's Party and Left. This not only delights me and the Advance Party, but the country's citizens in general, and not least the business community, who depend entirely on efficient and secure transport solutions. We take people seriously, and therefore it is now a historic commitment to maintenance, because the decay under red-green rule increased significantly. For rail only, the maturity increased by 1 billion. kr per year. The railway system itself says that they are satisfied with bourgeois rule. Yes, not only satisfaction, it's called this year for the big maintenance year. It doesn't say a little bit. Even better in 2016, with additional maintenance effort, which in turn means that what can be built and maintained must be built. And rarely has there been a budget hearing in the committee where those who met were largely satisfied with the budget. After the budgetary agreement between the civil parties, the appropriations for the Railway Agency are increased. In total, appropriations are increased up to 18 billion. kr. It is a formidable increase, which is valued among many. For far too long under red-green rule, one experienced almost every week being met with headlines that took care of different problems. Not uncommonly, the train passengers were lost when overhead lines were broken, signalling systems were out of service, material shortages, staff shortages, etc. Unfortunately, we continue to experience this several places, precisely as a result of the red-green decay. That's why I'm glad that for the third consecutive year, there's so much to be invested in increased maintenance on both the road and the track. This bet makes the maturity now accrue, for the first time in several decades. I am also pleased that it is now possible for the NSB to buy even more new trainsets than the 26 that have been in the government. The entire 18 new ones can now be ordered in addition to the 26. It is important to be able to facilitate the use of trains where possible, precisely because they have been very poor and worn material, which has made the train an unpredictable solution. This does something to the bourgeois parties by purchasing new and safe equipment. In addition, a monthly and annual card discount is now charged to the NSB, which means that their price is reduced by 20 pst. on some routes. Much of this will mean that more and more people living in this way will see the value of taking trains, not by making it more expensive or difficult to choose other solutions, but simply making it easier to choose the safe and good public transport service. Unlike red-green policies, citizens are committed to facilitating the use of carrots rather than whips. Therefore, I am pleased that these batches now add up to a discount on trains and facilitate the increase of take-offs and the use of the tracks as a result of increased maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1247	The train is important to all those who commute in and out of our cities every day to work and study, and the train is absolutely crucial to success with the green shift. The most important thing we can do is to increase investment and maintenance. The working party has therefore prioritised 0.5 billion. kr more to the railway than the government proposes. So I would also like to praise the Left and Christian People's Party, which has managed to negotiate more for the maintenance of the railway, and I am also very pleased that there will be new crossing tracks on the Gjøvik Railway. For the Workers' Party, the aim is to reduce the travel time of Gjøvik-Oslo by one and a half hours and hourly leave by both roads. We also have clear expectations that the plan work for a new double track can be started in 2016. The working party is also concerned about the operational situation of the Dovreban. A stable operation for the Dovreban is one of the main contributions to maintaining the share of goods on the road between Oslo and Trondheim. The Workers' Party therefore states in its observations that the increased appropriations for maintenance should be given priority to sections which pursue the objective of more goods on the road. Infrastructure is important for industry in the districts, but infrastructure is more than just road and rail. It is therefore serious for the government to reach the end of the line of support for broadband development in the districts. It hits businesses in my area at least, and you need broadband to have a good business policy. The E16 is the main pulse through Valdres, a district that no longer has the railway, and where yesterday's debate shows that the airport of the region faces a very uncertain future. The E16 is the only winter-proof mountain crossing between east and west, and when the storm strikes, business and the inhabitants can be sure that you get across the mountain on the File Mountain. When e.g. 33 from Gjøvik to Valdres, there is no doubt that the E16 will be an important link between the West and the whole inland. It underlines the importance of continuing to develop E16. It is built in Valdres, and it is good that the government is essentially following up the offensive red-green transport plan. Next year, the E16 Eye–Eidsbru is set-up, and it is very good. Then we know that the State Road Service has calculated that building out Turtnes–Øye at the same time as expanding Øye–Eidsbru is going to bring great savings. We know that there are significant savings on the Filefjell project, and then the Workers' Party believes that it would have been reasonable to use the saved money at the same time from Eidsbru down to Turtnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1264	It is a little strange to witness a debate on transport in this Chamber without the representatives of the Progress Party with one word mentioning ‘bom’ and ‘bompenger’, except for the Council of State, which is now suddenly satisfied, only the rate of tolls will be lower. Tolls are still required, even if people were guaranteed, regardless of election results, that tolls should be removed, but now more tolls are paid than ever before. In his speech, the representative Michaelsen Labour Party criticised for voting against what they are in favour of – it is possible that it was the other way around – but that the Progress Party has voted in favour of all toll propositions for over two years is clearly quite right. In the election campaign, Siv Jensen had the microphone full of strength and said that when they came to power, there would be a big sign with “free” at all toll stations in Norway. Now she's the country's finance minister, and the bombs are still there. In the last great season, Bård Hoksrud believed that the red-green government was driving highway robbery, and cried out from this pulpit: the government is peeling and driving the motorists. In view of his own rhetoric, both he, the Council of State of Solvik-Olsen and the Minister of Finance are criminals. In my home country, we have been promised a great deal in transportation by both the Right Gundersen and the Advance Party Johnsen. There would be a continuous expansion of E16 between Kongsvinger and Klöfta. It was to be finished in 2017, said Johnsen. In addition, he was to arrange the four-field road to the Swedish border. It's been over a year since I saw plant machines on that road, and as far as I know, nobody comes in 2016 either. Johnsen told us that there was zero problem to further expand the E6 at record speed. Yes, it was even going to be a quick extension of the four-field road from Rena to Hamar. It was just choosing him in, and he was going to sort things out. The same was true of trains. According to him, a crossroads on the Kongsvinger course was almost as if it were being raining. But there won't be any crossing tracks for next year either. Last year we heard that rv. 3/25 would be a successful OPS project. It would be much cheaper than originally planned, built much faster and at lower risk than traditional road construction. In March of this year, the Minister for Transport set up in Hedmark, together with the representatives Gundersen and Johnsen. With full press coverage, the high-sounding guarantees that construction of the road will not be postponed due to the damage caused. OPS, as many had feared. «I'm lowering my shoulders now. There is no reason for concern," said the Right-Rapporteur of Elverum after the meeting. But now we read in the locals that the road can be two years late. The cost has increased to nearly 5 billion. kr, and it is not known what toll rates it is operating at or how long the trees will be standing to cover the profits of the private partner. In the transport debate, we hear that all transport construction is going to go so much faster, it's going to be much cheaper, it's going to be reorganized, and it's going to be cut in the bureaucracy. Viewed from my point of view and from Hedmark's point of view, it's actually the opposite that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1277	I'm not going to talk about tolls or charges. I'm going to talk about the part of the country I come from, which in many ways and at all times has lived by what we've been approaching, namely our natural resources. For us, it's about having good access to a market if we're going to get our goods delivered. We're totally dependent on good transportation. It hasn't been like that. In these times we are constantly reading about fixed vehicle combinations, about closed roads, etc. I was once asked how important infrastructure is for business development. I come from a small mountain village called Sulitjelma – once in Norway’s second largest job. It was not because ore was found in the mountains of Sulis that it became Norway's second largest job. No, that's because you built a 35-km railway. Actually, it wasn't the state, but the business, which built it, so that the ore could reach out to the world, and we could create jobs. In the case of industrial development in North Norway, or to the extent in the districts, infrastructure is clearly the most important point. If we are to operate with good industrial policy, infrastructure is the word. We could say it again, two or three times, because that's what's going on. It's good district policy and good policy to create values, and it enables us to create more jobs where, in my view, the values are greater. In order to come from the part of the country, I have to say that the budget to be adopted today is historically good. It's a historic initiative on transportation in North Norway. I mention in fleng: New airport is being discussed – a huge project for Bodø. We're talking about new airport structure both in Helgeland and in Lofoten. Not to talk about road – if I take you from the Trøndelags border and all the way to Troms County, we have the Helgeland package South and Helgeland package North. If we go over the Salt Mountain, we meet the Mountain and maybe get the little shame that's left, from Borkamo to Sørelva, which no one has been able to build out, in place. In Bodø there is the Bodø urban package with special attention to public transport and not least walking and cycling paths. Now we're making a concept choice for new tunnels on E6 between Fauske and Narvik, Hålogalandsbrua is being built, there's racial protection on E10, and we're planning a new E10/rv. 80 between Tjeldsund, Gullesfjord and Ramsund. It's clear that a lot is happening. Before the railway operation, Ofotbanen takes priority. In addition, we get bets on the Nordlandsbahn, linked to the signalling systems that we have been waiting for all the time, and new crossing tracks. A new station is being built on the Tverland, and there is also likely to be a new station on Otteråga or Reitan. If there's any place the government has to be proud of what they're doing, it's about north-eastern politics and where they want to bet. It shows them through the investments made, at least in my part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1290	It was interesting to hear the previous speaker frame up a number of projects in North Norway for which money was granted in the previous government period, and which has started up, some in the previous government period and some in this government period. Hålogalandsbrua was one of the cases mentioned by the previous representative. It's the country's second longest bridge. It shall be ready by the autumn of 2017. It's a bridge that connects North Norway even better, and the bridge will shorten the distance to the base aerodrome at Evenes by 20 minutes. Therefore, Framneslia Airport must be brought down. In the proposition dealt with in this room, there was a premise: Narvik airport is closed when the E6 Hålogaland bridge is open for traffic. The bridge was scheduled to be ready in 2016. The proposition stated that if the opening of the bridge would be slightly distorted, it would be assessed whether the airport would be closed at the end of the contract period for the route between Narvik and Bodø on 31 March 2017. The bridge is now assumed to be completed in the autumn of 2017, and it seems that there can be a time without an airport and without the bridge being ready. The municipality of Narvik went on to pay $30 million. kr to this project. Now the assumptions have changed, and Narvik has asked the government for help to pay this bill. Unfortunately, it is not the will of the Ministry of Transport to find this money. But I am very pleased that the Workers' Party has found room for this in our alternative budget. I am a little surprised, because this has been such an important matter for the Right Party and the Advance Party locally. Former Grand Representative and rapporteur candidate Torgeir Tåldal of the Progress Party said five days before the election that he had done everything he could in this matter, but he had to admit that it is not possible for the government to change a financing plan alone, which means that Narvik municipality must out by 30 million. kr. "Now it has to be up to the other parties on the Stortinget to agree with Frp, so that there can be a majority in order to get the 30 million on the Stortinget granted," said Treldal to the newspaper Forward. In October, the outgoing rapporteur, Tore Nyseter, said from the Right to the same newspaper: 'Right knows what the party will do when this matter comes to the table. The same is true of Frp." He then hoped for support from at least one other party to secure a majority in order to erase a bill the municipality considers to be very unreasonable. From the new rapporteur from the Labour Party, it has been a good job, and what both the Right and the Advance Party called for earlier this fall, that another party had to support them, is now the case. But what has happened? Indeed, the Right Party and the Advance Party of Great Britain have not found room for this one-off appropriation in their budget. Regardless of whether Narvik gets help to pay the bill of $30 million. kr, it is important that the FOT routes are now being moved from Framneslia Airport to Harstad/Narvik Airport, Evenes. I sincerely hope when the bulk of the population now does not propose to grant these 30 million, that the Council of State then works for Avinor to extend the agreement to operate the airport.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1307	For several decades, both on the road and rail networks have increased and increased year by year. The minimum maturity on the county roads is 45 billion. kr. But there was not only an increase in the decay of the road network under the red-green government. When the Stoltenberg government started, the railway network had a maturity of 9 billion. NOK, and when the Stoltenberg government resigned, the maturity had doubled to 18 billion. kr. One thing is that a government consisting of the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV do not give priority to roads, but that they are also down-prioritised important collective action and railway development, are mildly odd, especially in view of the fact that they claim that they are both engaged in public transport and in the environment. The historic shift with the fact that today’s Right Party government has not only stopped the downturn on the road and the track, but has also begun to resume the retreat, is just one of several important and major changes that we are now making. Another extremely important issue is the creation of the road company. When the red-greens ruled the country, it was unfortunately common to build out the main road network piece by piece and piece, and not coherent and completely. Retorically, the red-greens talked a lot about building continuously and completely, but the words were not turned into action. For example, in 2006, there was an increase in the number of problem drug users. built 10.7 km by motorway in Norway, and in 2013 no more than 10.6 km by motorway was built. With the new road company it will end up building out small parcels of 10 and 10 km per year. The two start-up parcels on the E18 in Telemark and Aust-Agder are about 20 km each. Another pair of road companies are going to start with E6 in Hedmark. It's a total of 43 kilometers. It's really historic, because it's the longest parcel that's been built in Norway. So far, the maximum OPS project is Grimstad-Kristiansand and it is 38 km. I would like to remind Stortinget that in the red-green NTP they would only expand 32 km of these 43 km with E6. It is very special, but the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV actually wanted to leave the 11 km of regulated four-field highway to stand for another time. It's almost like you have to wonder if they had a conscious strategy of building the shortest and most expensive, for the red-green boots actually because they fulfilled the NTP in dollars and ears, but they didn't meet the NTP in kilometers, miles or projects. If one compares to sports, this is going to be the way to build roads like Therese Johaug would go a few meters before the goal to save the last distance for another time. Of course, that would never happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1322	The maintenance of the county road network is estimated to be about 59 billion. kr national. The Ministry of Transport has presented figures showing that the cover state is dissatisfied with half of the county roads in Norway. In Hordaland, we have 2,567 km of county roads. The percentage of these people who have satisfactory road surfaces is only 41.9. The centre part is concerned with avoiding a class division on the roads where the highways fall while the highways are being restored. For this reason, the Centre Party also prioritises a sharp increase in the state funds for the county in our alternative budget with ear-marked means of maintaining exactly the county roads. The danger of race is a reality that both business and residents must live with in many parts of the country. According to the State Road Service’s input to the National Transport Plan, Sogn and Fjordane, Hordaland and Rogaland should circle for at least 22 billion. kr of a total of 715 pace points. The Regional Manager of the Vegvessen einer speech shows that there are specific challenges on the road network in the West, and that the need in the West Region is half of the total need in the whole country. According to the Vegvesen 192 progress point on the national and county road network with a high step factor only in the West Region. The centre part of my race challenges must be taken more seriously. We are giving priority to 400 million in our alternative budget. kr more for race protection on national and county roads in 2016. E16 in Hordaland between Bergen and Voss to the parish border is a very unfortunate and racially dangerous stretch. 29 of the racial points of the Vegvesen report in the West Region, lie here. The range has had 200 breeds and more than 20 fatal accidents in the last 15 years. It was the red-green government with the Center Party in the Ministry of Transport that started a concept-valuation process for the route. The recommendation from the Railway Agency and the Road Administration was delivered to this government in April 2014. The draft decision from the government came on 8 December: alternative K5 on a new road and path between Bergen and Voss. I must say it was a pleasure. The option and decision are supported locally, including at the Centre Party. The important thing now is that the Storting prioritizes the section of Stanghelle as the first construction step, and that it enters the NTP. Then, together with the Ringeriksbanen, Bergensbanen can become a real competitor of aircraft, and that's good for both people and business, and that's good for the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1335	We have a government that likes to contribute to pleasures around the country, perhaps especially in the field of transportation. We have gone from low-financing plans and major delays to plans for money, new solutions and efficiency. The opposition smiles bravely, while, to a poor degree, trying to sow small grains of uncertainty. At least it is difficult to read it differently when the largest opposition party in the setting of this case expresses concern for delays in the overall development of E6 in the South-Tronde Team, south of Trondheim. This is said to be due to the fact that a potable and important sectional section, road and tunnel between the Windåsliene and Corporal Bridge are being lifted forward in order to be implemented as quickly as possible. This is a very long-awaited project for all those who travel there, both drivers and families on tour – and also for one of the many mentioned moments of joy. This delay comes from a party that did not allow any overall E6 into the national transport plan, and that saw its completion in 2032, according to their own local politicians – 2032! Then you go around here and express your concern for delays. It's incomprehensible. I went to the election in the South-Tronde Team to see that the E6 of the Workers' Party went too slowly. At that time there was cause for concern. The working party, on the other hand, gets worried when we're going to start building. One of the new grips of this government, which is opposed to the Workers' Party, is the creation of New Wegener AS, which will ensure effective and coherent development of, inter alia, E6 in my state. I was very happy when this important road section came into the road company's portfolio, because that means that it is guaranteed implementation. That's the new thing. For the first time there is a guarantee that the roads will be built. But the Workers' Party is worried. Where ordinary people and business enjoy themselves, it seems that the Workers' Party lives in the innermost part of the world according to the words of Bjørnson, namely, that "every pleasure you received on earth must be paid with sorrow". But there's no reason in road construction context. It may help with optimism, even in the Workers' Party, if I recall that New Veier AS recently announced a position as project director for E6 Trondelag. I think we can be sure that when the new company establishes a project organisation and employs people, it is because they intend to build a roadway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1346	Some highlights of key areas of the Christian People's Party in the negotiated budget: it is a central task to support the settlement and fishing industry along the coast. The continuation of grant schemes to fishing ports of 60 million. kr is an important measure, both to save lives and to secure the infrastructure of the fishing industry. For the future, we believe that a review of today's system is necessary in order to have a system that can ensure, to a greater extent than at present, the most targeted development of fishing ports with a focus on the needs of the industry. In Norway, we have a major lag in the organisation of cyclists. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that we, together with the Left and the Government parties, have had the advantage of a separate reward scheme for walking and cycling routes. It is a targeted system that contributes to new kilometres of walking and cycling in Kommune-Norway. This applies to the municipalities that have the plans in place and are willing to use their own funds to enable them to develop more rapidly. 8 pst. bicycle share by 2023 is not an ambitious objective. We are pleased that in our budgetary cooperation with the three other parties we got an increase of 75 million. kr for this purpose. Broadband is also an important part of the infrastructure. It creates an opportunity to get new decentralised jobs across district Norway. We therefore welcome the 75 million increase. NOK, so we get to a slightly increased level in 2016 compared to 2015. Many on - road users have to live with race - prone roads on a daily basis. It is a burden on the individual and can lead to insecurity in everyday life. For the Christian People's Party, therefore, it has been a priority task to contribute to the re-introduction of this field, and I am pleased that the allocation for the purpose has increased by 75 million. kr in the budgetary agreement with the four cooperation parties. In the same way as road construction, the railways also have great opportunities to create new living and working regions. Together with fully developed InterCity to Skien-Porsgrund, the interconnection of Sørlandsbanen and Vestfoldbanen will create a new residential and working region. The KVU shall be completed during 2016 and will be very important for lifting the interconnection into the NTP to be adopted in spring 2017. With regard to both freight and passenger transport, this could link two parts of the country in a completely new way. In the South we are also pleased that the railway track to Kristiansand ferry terminal, the continuation of Rv. 9 and the improvement of the port of Farsund are actions that have been prioritised in the majority comments. We have received a budget in the field of transport that does not only reflect past decade's neglect, neglect, for which we all, regardless of the party, must share responsibility – we are in the starting pit in order to carry out important reforms on the road and track, which will contribute to better accessibility, safer roads and more environmentally friendly transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1363	Racial and racial danger is a reality for many passersby in many parts of the country. For those who live in fear that the school bus of their children will be rammed, and for those who pass dangerous points of race every day, it is a great burden. The central party believes that one of the major weaknesses of the government's transport policy is that the effort to secure the road network against race is not high enough. Climate change also means that it is raging more often and in new places. A report by the State Road Administration of the West presented yesterday shows that the total need for the West Region is 22 billion. kr for racial protection and the entire 715 race point. New figures also show that the need for racial protection of the county road network in counties such as Sogn and Fjordane is 40 pst. of the total need in the West Region. The corresponding up-to-date figures will come for the whole country and will serve as the basis for the priorities of the next national transport plan. This tells me that the racial protection framework for both highways and highways needs to increase greatly because the need is so enormous. It also suggests that the distribution and prioritisation of racial protection resources must be targeted at those with the greatest needs and the most racially dangerous road sections. When only in Region West there is a need for 22 billion. kr, it will take a very long time to race the roads when the 2016 framework is 1.3 billion. kr, and that for the whole country. Therefore, a stepping up of racial protection means - not a reduction. The centre will strengthen the racial security work by over 30 pst. in the budget for next year. But it also needs to be a major effort in the national transport plan to meet the challenges we face in ensuring our road network both on county roads and on national roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1374	This is what we say in Telemark because it is particularly good in Telemark, a centralized state that houses some of the most important transport corridors in our country, between the east, the west and the south. One of these is E18, and in Telemark we are concerned that the start of the project E18 Ruggtvedt – Dørdal is delayed. The time is beginning to run out to maintain initial ambition for the treatment of the staging proposition for development and financing before Christmas, to put it mildly. We expect it to be added to a process where everything is done to ensure construction start at the end of 2016. The second major transport corridor is E134. It is therefore good that money is allocated to further planning of the Haukeli tunnels, and in Telemark we assume that E134 as an east-west link is given the highest priority. In such a priority, it is crucial to start planning the Saggrenda-Gvammen route during 2016. At home in Grenland, we've been clapping our heads and arguing for many years about how we're going to solve the traffic challenges in our urban areas. The solution was Citypackak Grenland. The municipalities agreed, decisions are taken, and the spade is set in a short time in the earth. Phase 1 urban package is a reality - a urban package for prosperity and the environment. But after phase 1, phase 2 comes. It is important that the KVU for phase 2 starts up during 2016, so that we ensure progress for important projects on highway 36 and not least highway 353, the so-called Gas Road. Last but not least: the maritime traffic centre in Brevik. The concerns in Porsgrund and Telemark are great after the rumors that our maritime traffic centre is being laid down and moved to Horten. Remember that Grenland has one of Norway's busiest ports. A large number of ships with huge quantities of goods and raw materials enter and leave our residential and residential areas every day. In Grenland we are used to living near ports and industrial areas. That's what we live through. But it also makes us totally dependent on the security of ships, the environment and people. The maritime traffic centre is located there for a reason and the message cannot be clearer: the maritime traffic centre must stay in Brevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1387	The representative Odd Henriksen from the Right took the floor and claimed that the business community in the north was satisfied with the so-called historic effort of this government. The representative talked about seeing a growth in business. Yeah, that's right. Northern Norway and, in particular, Northern Ireland have the largest projected growth in business throughout the country. It's because you have a business life with diversity, but most of it's actually about getting the goods from the coast to the market. Then there's a contradiction – when you talk about a historical movement in the north, you get the picture completely wrong when you see the total road network, because it doesn't matter to business or the local population whether the road it's going on is a county road, a municipal road or, in this case, a national road. The economy, growth and ability to create value added — and hence funding for schools, roads and kindergartens in the future — are independent of who is the owner. Then it is a pity to say that the income system for county councils has actually weakened the ability of regional actors to build a transport network while growing in business. From the government's point of view, it will be – and it is claimed by the Council of State, Mr Sanner, that it is – fairer and better to build the roads on the county road network afterwards, once the growth has come. This is to be in deficit, in line with the fact that we are actually lagging behind when we talk about the possibility of growth and settlement along the coast and creating more activity in the fishing industry – because there were many who were wrinkled when the government proposed to wind up the subsidy scheme aimed at the municipal fishing ports. Because the center part is going to go the opposite way. We therefore proposed to strengthen the State grant scheme for fisheries facilities of more than 70 million. kr. These are small community-based measures that create new growth and give way to many small communities. These communities – they are often on an island and often in connection with salmon slaughter – have a high value creation per capita, much higher than in other parts of the country. So these finance total expenditure in the state budget through taxes and taxes, so that we can just build the society we want where we use the whole country. The proposal is anti-district, as are other proposals. But the government is going to get paid to fill up the national transport plan in general, although I have to say hello and say that this is not done with the E8 in Troms. This is a budget that goes in the wrong direction, when it comes to putting the whole country into use.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1401	Fortunately, we got a government change two years ago. Only on the railway increased the maintenance run and expired by 1 billion. kr per year under the red-green. The government is now reducing the red-green decay both on the road and on the track. The government has provided a very good budget, a budget that helps to stimulate the strengths of the Norwegian economy, a budget that helps us step up efforts on infrastructure, research, education and innovation. There are major challenges ahead of us. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the government gives the country the best conditions to succeed in this transformation. Good welfare services and competitiveness for business require both a modern infrastructure of high quality and efficient and secure transport solutions. This transport budget responds to the challenges we face. The government has implemented many reforms. These provide new and better solutions: road reform, with the new road company, the toll reform, which is about getting a new and more efficient collection, the rail reform, which means that we are organising work on Norwegian railways in a new and better way. The size has a majority who dare to think new. The Labour Party has voted against everything. As a representative of Buskerud, it is a great pleasure to read this budget. The government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left provide good solutions – to the joy of the county and for the country. The Government has commissioned the Railway Agency and the State Road Administration to launch the Ringeriksbanen and new E16 regulatory work as a joint project, with a view to possible joint plant start in 2019. This is a force for action and a strong political will in unity. The projects come out of the red-green deadwater. Rv. 23 Dagslett-Linnes is a road project of national importance, as part of an important transit year to Sweden. The current trachea is heavily damaged. Now the necessary decisions are being taken to start construction. The roadworks on the E134 route Damåsen–Saggrenda are under way. The government provides safe management for a demanding time. This budget shows it with all due clarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1418	‘The majority of the Transport Committee is very disappointed with the government’s handling of the case of the lifting of the submarine U-864, with its life-threatening mercury cargo, outside Fedje in Hordaland’.» Further: ‘The consequences of this unnecessary delay are increasing environmental risks, increasing the uncertainty of the population in the region, and weakening Norway’s reputation as both a fishing nation and an environmental nation.’ This could be a plural comment from the Committee on Transport and Communications after the cooperation party has now reduced the commitment to implementing the environmental solution for U-864 by 10 million. kr. The quotation is correct enough from the committee, and it is the case from Innst. 13 S, but it is from the Committee on Budgetary Control in 2011. Then it was the party Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party that made up the plurality of the committee, and the wrecked by the healthy, torpedoed submarine loaded with 67 tons of mercury is hardly in any better constitution today than was the case four years ago. We in the Labour Party are very disappointed that the budget agreement here involves a cut of 10 million. kr, and there is great concern when the reduction is justified by the fact that the implementation of the environmental solution for U-864 and the mercury loads appears to be delayed compared to the original plan. In our alternative budget, we support the proposal in Prop. 1 S, where it says: ‘50 million. kr will be used for further work on environmental measures for U-864 outside Fedje.» I have understood, with previous information on the matter, that the most important environmental measure now consists in building up a supporting seabed, up against the main wreck, that this must be done to prevent the wreck from suffocating or falling down a slope, and that this must be done regardless of whether a further lifting or covering, or a combination of these solutions. Furthermore, I have understood that it is urgent to implement this support measure, which is now being postponed. We in the Labour Party will support the government in taking the best environmental measures when it comes to dealing with U-864 and mercury loads, but we also expect the government to make good progress in this. Now, more than two years after the Solberg government took over, we no longer see anything about that zeal and the bleak government party in this case – the time they were in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1441	It is an interesting debate when most of the opposition's time agrees to try to take credit for the policy of the government. Then we have come a long way compared to previous budget debates, under other governments, but I take it as a good sign that basically things seem to be reasonably good. However, there are some things that I can't quite logically follow, so if the Workers' Party and the Centre could explain a little more, I accept some lessons. For example, the representative, Lauvås, says that he has not seen a word that the government will cut tolls in some of our documents, even though we have presented our own toll reform, and it is also mentioned in the budget. Then we get criticism from the representative Sønsterud that we haven't cut enough tolls, while the Workers' Party is voting against all attempts to allocate money just to cut tolls. The working party must decide: are they in order to cut tolls and thereby support the appropriations, or against when they vote against? There has been less toll in this country as a result of today's government, although we haven't got them out – no, it didn't get the Progress Party majority for it. But if the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre were still in charge, the level of toll would have been even higher than it is today. Then that's the concern for maintenance. Now, all of a sudden, a lot of people in the Workers' Party have the impression that the downfall in the transport sector is, and it shouldn't have been. We fully agree on this. However, I would like to remind you that from 2005 to 2014 the maintenance seat lag doubled on the railway, while it drops in 2015 and 2016. What you didn't think was a problem when you crashed yourself, why has it suddenly become a big problem today? I just don't understand that. Previous opposition thought it was a problem, and that is why we are doing something about it today. I remind you that in the railway station no. 1 in 2014 the railway people themselves say that the maintenance budget provided by the Stoltenberg government before they left would be a railway crisis, but it got better after the government change. You know, from professionals, they get a good thing. I also have to remember something. The representative of Ljunggren is disappointed that the municipality of Narvik must contribute 30 million. kr to build a bridge. It is, in fact, an agreement that was reached under the Red-Green Government, together with the rapporteur of the Labour Party in Narvik. So it's the Workers' Party that has created the situation that they're now worried about. What Ljunggren forgets to mention is that through the toll reform and the interest compensation scheme, Narvik will be compensated for more than $30 million. kr. Thus, Narvik, who is involved and provides a guarantee for that loan, can choose to use that money to improve its own municipal economy and pay off the contributions rather than cut tolls. Here this is solved if only the red-green look for the solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1452	The maintenance seat suspension on the county road network is estimated to be about 59 billion. kr, even if there is uncertainty in the estimation. The Ministry of Transport has presented figures showing that the cover state is unsatisfactory in half of the county roads in Norway. The numbers are worst in Troms, there only 31.9 pst. has a tyre considered satisfactory. In both Oppland, Telemark, East Agder, Hordaland, Sogn and Fjordane, Nordland and Finnmark are less than half satisfactory. A liberal economy for municipalities and counties, as proposed by the Centre Party in its alternative budget, will strengthen the capacity of the municipal sector to operate maintenance on the municipal and county roads. The centre party also proposes a sharp increase in the state resources of the county municipalities, earmarked for the maintenance of county roads. This appropriation is proposed in the budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs and is of 300 million. kr. In addition, the Central Party proposes to change the cost keys of the states in the same budget, so that those states that have major challenges in terms of boating and ferrying are provided with proportionate transfers. Plus 200 is going to be equal to 200 million. kr for skim protection on the county roads. Finally, the Senterpartiet proposes an allocation of 390 million. in order to remove bottlenecks on the road network, a problem relating in particular to the transport of foodstuffs in general and the transport of timber in particular. The Central Party proposes that all three road classes, highways, county roads and municipal roads should benefit from this special effort. The centre party supports the major activity in the road sector by day. This is in line with what the Central Party's Ministers for Transport have arranged for. However, it is important to remember that the county road network is also central to the infrastructure in Norway. I have a certain concern about the fragmentation of the E6 south of Melhus-Ulsberg, where the central part of the setting helps to clarify that it is important to achieve complete and rational propulsion, as intended. It is of concern that the route E6 Vindåsliene–Korporalsbrua has been taken out of the portfolio of the road development company and transferred back to the State Road Administration. I am concerned about delays for the rest of the route E6 Melhus–Ulsberg, as this route is not pointed out as one of the start-up projects for Nye Weier AS in 2016. There is also concern here at local level. In the absence of a toll proposition during the spring, it may be difficult to produce the project so that it can be lifted up and up to the time when a new national transport plan will be addressed in 2017. The tolling rate should have been addressed in the autumn of 2016 or in the spring of 2017 in order to ensure consistent and as rational as possible. I would therefore like to ask whether the majority of the parties can reassure local politicians who are now going to do regulatory work: will this first toll proposition come to spring, so that the development will be on track, and that it can take place coherently and rationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1475	The northern regions, including Svalbard, are among the world's most affected by climate change. At the same time, the area is generally characterised by increased activity. Less ice makes the area more accessible to traffic and other activities, and developments in recent years show that shipping to the Arctic regions is increasing both in number and extent, particularly in cruise traffic. The Working Party believes that with greater commercial and industrial activity in the Arctic, Longyearbyen will have to assume increased importance as a base for rescue and pollution preparedness and as a basis for the provision of maritime services. In this context, existing knowledge and expertise on Arctic technologies and logistics that exist in different environments in Longyearbyen could be a further developed resource. A growing maritime activity in the area will also require the strengthening of rescue and preparedness work on the island group and in adjacent sea areas. The swallowing society will have to change in the future. Today there is an acute and precarious situation in Longyearbyen as a result of the quotation around Great Norwegian. It is now urgent for the Minister of Industry to get on the road and make a rapid decision on the operational rest proposal, if important competences are not to be lost. The working party is dedicated to contributing and developing new long-term opportunities in Longyearbyen. That is why the Workers' Party has already presented its own business strategy for Svalbard in spring, including: the port was raised as a fourth pillar for industrial development in Longyearbyen. It's about having new legs to stand on for the swallowbard community, while Norwegian presence on the island is important. Port conditions have already been investigated and are within the NTP for 2014-2023, and it is only here to start. The working party has therefore set aside 100 million in its alternative budget. kr to port development on Svalbard – an important contribution to the swallowing society in a difficult time, which we had hoped Stortinget had supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1490	Then we travel south again from Svalbard, down to the Oslo area. I'm going to talk a little bit about E18. I don't think I take my mouth too full when I say that it's perhaps the most controversial road section – at least in Norway – although there's a lot of roads and a lot of rail in Norway we'll hear about in this debate. It was a theme in the municipal election campaign, and I can only see – and I am pleased to say – that there is a large and broad majority in the Stortinget to build the new E18 West Corridor, i.e. west of Oslo. It's a little bit surprising, maybe a little bit eye-catching too, to see that it cut 100 million. kr on that entry in the annual budget of the Government Parties. These include: Right that has been very strong champions for that way, and there is a lot of money when you halve an item. What you're really doing is you're pushing a bill that comes in either way, because this is money that's going to be used to buy properties that are going to be used for the road project. It costs money, because it's expensive plots through Bærum. I also doubt that next year there is something particularly liberal about the economy, but we wait and see, and hope that the money is in place. It is tempting to play with the idea of what the government parties had said to another government option, if we had done the same thing. I know from experience that there will be quite juicy glosses in that way. One example is the words used before the election campaign in the summer of 2013, where tough words were used about new Fornebubane. The representative of the Rivers promised that if there was a change, the government would throw away the Fornebubane. The Left and Christian People's Party would start as soon as possible, as soon as Bærum had finished the regulation. That regulation has been done for a long time, but no world thing has happened as far as the new Fornebubane is concerned. State Council Solvik-Olsen has spoken to Asker and Bærum Budstik something that I think was good in itself that he said, that the Fornebubanen would come as soon as possible. The most important thing is not the start time, but it will hardly happen before 2018. It contrasts very strongly with the promises made in the previous election campaign. Then there was no limit to how disappointing it was to see the government parties at that time. This is about realising itself. I actually think it's a virtue in politics that people relate to reality. That's why it's good to understand that the Fornebubane can't be conjured up, and it's in itself a good thing that you're cutting 100 million. kr in the E18 project, as long as it does not have any consequences. I also expect that this training period has set its mark, and that some representatives speak a little less clearly and a little more realistically in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1501	It really fits as a foothold to be allowed to speak after the previous representative. This government has done exactly what the previous government should have done, but as it did not – it actually granted money both for planning the Fornebubanen, 100 million. SEK in next year's government budget and 100 million. kr to redeem properties in the E18 axis. The lot must not be concerned – the redemption of properties is ahead of the plan. The government actually started before the control plan was in place. Everything is by form and partly in front of form. It was actually SV's representative who made me take the floor. In SV it is to be synonymous with the new E18 to be for the climate. So you can remain ambitious on the climate's behalf, and then you can become concerned with symbols in the field of transport policy. In fact, the E18 is Norway’s largest traffic bottleneck, and Sandvika is one of the country’s most traffic-destroyed agglomerations. It just has to do something. 17,000 people are plagued by noise every day, and 50,000 new people are expecting to settle in Asker and Bærum by 2030. It is a prerequisite that the increased volume of traffic involved in this high population should be taken by public transport. There is a need to do something about public transport – which in this respect is actually the bus. It's not coming out today. Today's E18 consists of three fields, one of which is mainly for public transport, which in fact does not appear because other fields have to be crossed in order to get to their runway. Then queue, cork, and chaos appear, and we're inside a vicious circle. There's a very positive development here in the hall regarding the E18 question. Now it's just SV and the Green Party that are opposed to the new E18. The centre party has actually become too, and has sunk its usual ability to cultivate the conflict between city and periphery. All credit to the Center Party that they've come up with better ideas on this issue. Finally, if the metropolitan area is to develop into a common housing and labour market area, some action needs to be taken with regard to traffic congestion. That's why this government is going to grant 100 million. DKK to Fornebubanen, 120 million. kr for the planning of the Ringerix track and 100 mill. kr to new E18. In fact, the Ringeriksbane will allow Asker, Oslo, Bærum, Hole and Ringerijk to develop as a common housing and labour market, with a completely different efficiency and opportunity to develop both business and residential areas in this capital area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1512	In this debate we have been presented both historical bets, historical priorities and so-called historical spin-offs, yes, the most historic thing was that the representative Henriksen could decide to now be discussed there, and there is a new airport being discussed. Apparently, that was a historic priority. And from a number of other representatives, we have been confirmed by rhetorical whispers that there are new ideas and better solutions – yes, new ideas and better solutions such as the creation of a road company, which is going to spend 60 million. kr for operation before a single road is built. My colleague, Frank J. Jensen, said he was concerned about the progress of E6 south of Trondheim. And the Workers' Party opted for it to be expanded and finished in 2023, not in 2032. So Frank J. Jenssen has a little bit of math skills and numerical skills. But the funny thing is that he and a number of other representatives from the government parties say that the reason for the establishment of this road company, which spends 60 million dollars. kr in operation before they have built a single road is that it must ensure complete expansion and continuous expansion. So important is the fact that this road company ensures progress that part of the E6 south of Trondheim is taken out of the road company because you are concerned about the progress of the project, and you are concerned that there will be delays with this road company, which will use more on the road before they can build a single road. Then it's funny that the representative Stordalen talks about the Progress Party being occupied by carrots, because carrots in this budget have been dropped off by commuter deductions, seat tax and increased tax on commuting. If these are carrots, I think maybe I'd let this year's crop lie, and if these are the so-called carrots you're going to pull out, I don't even dare think about what the whip of the Progress Party and the minister looks like.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1519	The President would point out that the word 'bottles' is not a parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1522	Stein Erik Lauvås and Tone Merete Sønsterud, both from the Workers' Party, came with some criticism, or comments, to the government, especially to the Advance Party, as that the Advance Party is a fee party because we are in favour of a fare, as Lauvås says. I can reassure the representative Lauvås that we are absolutely no party to the fee, and that we absolutely do not want any extra fees, at least no fare to the airline, but when one after all has a cooperation and one sits in a minority government, one has to give and take. It's quite common in every situation – one has to give and take. The working party obviously has no experience in giving so much, but they obviously have very good experience in taking, so maybe it could be a little healthy for the Workers' Party to sit a little bit in a minority government, so they had some experience with it. Then a compromise has to be reached, then one has to negotiate, and we've got a whole that's very good, even though we've had to give in to, for example. The seat charge, which is also part of a green shift, which we talked about with SV and Left instead, and that the left there has a small environmental alibi, as seen, which they would not get with the Workers' Party. But we've cut the tolls -- we're working on it, we're cutting from 50 to maybe just five toll companies -- we're working on government loans, with interest-rate compensation, or interest-rate subsidies, we're raising intercity to enormous heights, which were never at the level when the red-greens crashed -- in total, planning for the railroad in 2012 was just 47 million. And until the intercity sections now, with the Ringerix Railway, we're already up to 835 million. kr in 2016, so there are some violent rises. And we have stopped the increase in petrol and diesel taxes, etc. etc. As for Tone Merete Sønsterud and that no one here is talking about a bomb, I don't quite know about it. We are busy bringing down the toll rates and, of course, also busy removing toll stations – and we have removed several toll stations. I remind you that the current NTP did not open up to grant a toll waiver, so we had to make a political decision for, among other things. to grant exemption from tolls to those living on the Strandlukja along the E6. Tone Merete Sønsterud mentions E16 in Hedmark, which is her and my home country. That's where we've cleaned up a lot. We have given toll exemptions to those affected by the bomb on side roads at Kongsvinger, we have proposed to move the bomb, we have even proposed to stop the toll collection, but the Tone Merete Sønsterud party in Hedmark has not been able to attend either to move the bomb or to cancel the toll collection. So whoever sits in glasshouses should be a little careful to criticize others. In the case of rv. 325, I relate to what I have been confirmed several times by the Minister of Transport, that we plan there as intended, and if you look at the NTP, the action plan to the State Road Administration, the largest government appropriations will come in the period from 2018 to 2023 and not now in the current period.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1531	Now we're halfway in the massaging period. Today's government parties went to the elections on a change of pace in transport policy. There was not going to be fewer toll companies, as the previous speaker was saying, you should have the tolls all the way out. But otherwise it would be more of a lot faster. The Progress Party, today with both the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance, promised before the 2013 elections that 45 billion would be used. kr more on traffic each year. I am pleased that the government is following up the transport plan that the red-green government put forward and got a majority in the Storting, but there is reason to ask where it was of the extraordinary bet that would make the difference between a Right-wing Party government and the NTP that was then adopted by the red-green majority. Notification number one has been encroached on the county roads. We see today that it will not be reduced. The 2016 budget survey for KS shows that four out of five county municipalities say that the fall in government roads will be as it is today, or even increase. It is not very impressive, taking into account the promises given from the right, that the government has also cut heavily in the nutrients of the counties because it is just about to become a more county road. Call number two: Of course, for the Norwegian fishing industry, the infrastructure is very important, as for industry. Municipal fishing ports are an essential part of the infrastructure with which the Norwegian maritime fleet currently operates, and it is, of course, important that the fishing ports also develop in line with new needs. Here the government chose to cut its budget proposal. It is good that it was corrected in the agreement, but the uncertainty has been created. Number three: Before the 2013 elections, the Progress Party promised a number of concrete projects in Finnmark. There would be a new road in Pasvik, its own package for South Varanger, full upgrading of E6 and E69 from Lakselv to Honningsvåg, upgrading the airports at Kirkenes, Alta and Hammerfest. Very good so far, but none of this is delivered so far, and so we are halfway in the landfill period. Has the Advance Party deliberately led the voters behind the lights and put these projects on ice, or can we today clarify a start date for these projects before the summer of 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1543	There has been an interesting debate to follow. What I may think is remarkable after a long debate on transport, is that for the two largest opposition parties, the Labour Party and the Centre, the entire budget for transport only seems to be about money. So it's not about solutions and how to implement projects, it's just about the amount of money. That's what I think is a very narrow and narrow approach angle to a good behavioral bet. We have carried out several reforms in the transport sector; we have put in place a road reform that now makes us set up a road company. It will bring in new ideas, new ideas and new ways of working that can both bring down cost levels and ensure that roads are built faster and more efficiently. The same applies to public-private cooperation, which has been tested with great success over a number of years, but which has been dead for eight years without being taken up again. We are now taking that into account and using it as an effective implementation strategy. We also have a railway reform on a railway that, according to my concepts, is screaming for a new organisation, a new way of thinking, clearer responsibilities and better offering for the travellers. Here neither the Workers' Party nor the Centre have a single new idea but to vote against it. So until that representative, Lauvås, said: I agree, transportation is an incredibly important part of the business policy to the Right. That's why we're also spending a lot on transport, and that's why this promise we have now in the transport sector, so important to us, just to create more activity and increase productivity in business. It's one of the best reasons to implement it, and that means that we're actually strengthening the competitiveness of Norwegian business. Then it's funny to get criticism from the Workers' Party in that area, when the same party is only getting the bill up to business through increased taxes on both business and Norwegian ownership. It's hard to understand. So to several workers' party representatives in this room who have asked for an acceleration of several projects. Well, we're busy accelerating projects when we can, but if we're going to speed up projects, we also have to spend money to implement them. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, there is less money for national road investment than what we add to the deal that's on the table. Then it is a little strange to drive and ask for an acceleration of the project. And then finally, to representatives from the Nordic countries who talk down on the transport campaign in the Nordic countries: if there's one state in Norway that has really got a promise, it's just Northernland. We're building a lot more than what's at stake in the NTP in this state, and then I think it's a little funny to get criticism that we're not betting enough in that state. So I really hope and believe that we can now get the debate over that we are not just betting more, but that we are actually thinking new.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1556	The government and the policy of the majority are well described in the debate so far. I have little criticism of what is actually proposed. On the other hand, it seems that the Workers' Party is most concerned about demanding that we should speed up even more projects than what we have done so far. It'll be a bit like hearing Brazil's football coach boasting Brazil's one goal in the World Cup final a few years ago and forgetting that Germany actually cut seven. When I hear the representative Pedersen, she reminds me again that the Progress Party is far more offensive than the Workers' Party to expand transport projects, and she calls for more people to be realised. The challenge is that the Workers' Party does not itself contribute to the implementation of the same projects. Often, political debate and struggle tend to be about getting the projects out. So here, the Workers' Party is not going to lift a finger, but is just saying that the Progress Party is unable to get a majority for all of the extra appropriations that you want. But it's still quite a fact that today's government and the majority of today are accelerating a number of road sections, including road links. E105 in Pedersen's own home state, and Rv. 94 now have the earth's spade earlier than what one had actually foreseen in the national transport plan. Then the representative Pedersen picks up the county road, and there's also more in the centre party. It is a little strange that these representatives have not come to realize that government appropriations for county roads have increased by hundreds of percent after the government change. So if you think that the level of appropriations today is too low, at least it says something about how low it was under its own government. When one then says from the Workers' Party that four out of five counties are going to have increased decay on their county roads, it reminds me very much of what it was like when the red-greens ruled this country, because then there was also increasing decay on national roads. Now we've got a blue rule and a civil majority in Stortinget, and now we're reducing the maturity. Unfortunately, we see that most county municipalities became red-green, and then we also see that the decay is increasing there, but it's a choice one takes political. In the case of E6, it's interesting that the representative Otterstad, who himself represents a government constellation that made up for the E6 to be finished at the earliest time in 2032, criticizes today's government because we're talking about 2023. I even had a visit to the County Council of South Trundelag, and they said that we need to change the red-green NTP so that the Trunde Teams are prioritised. And then one is standing here criticizing today's government for speeding up those sections of the road, compared to what you got yourself into. So just finally to the Labour Party and Fornebubanen: I remember that in the National Transport Plan, Fornebubanen was referred to as ‘a potential project’. Today's majority have said that the Fornebuban will be implemented and that the state will take half of the bill. So there's much more offensive tactics and decisions now than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1569	Government parties also use this year’s debate to highlight the commitment to increased maintenance. It's like there's a story you're trying to tell. This turns open doors in relation to where we are today, because we do not agree with the increase in maintenance. This can be seen in our alternative budget, both last year and this year. So, of course, the Council of State likes to talk about the budget of previous years, but in the name of justice, you should talk about what we are going to deal with today, and that is the budget for 2016. It should not be a surprise, because if you had read the national transport plan that was adopted in 2013, we took over that it was a maintenance kit, and it was said quite clearly that this should be increased in the period that came, and that is what is happening. But now it's their watch, and then they try to make their story on it, and of course they have both the law and the right. The Labour Party has, as I said, followed up this both in the budget this year and for next year. Then we have done another thing that has not been done by today's government, and that is at least equally important – we have also allocated more money to the states. And who's in charge of the counties? Well, it's the Ministry of Local Affairs, and I guess the Minister of Transport doesn't like to talk so much about it. But that is what we have done, and that is why we have not only strengthened the transport budget, we have also strengthened the budgets of the county councils. It's not going to get away from that aftermath there is increasing. Only in my home country, it's now $8.5 billion. kr, and it has continued to increase these last two years as well. It's not like you've managed to grab hold of it there. So a little bit about Hålogalandsbrua, as the Council of State said something about it to the representative Ljunggren: In a familiar style, he shoots at someone else instead of answering what was taken up. The Labour Party has addressed this proposal, because we believe that the assumptions have changed, but have not changed, there is a good news today. There is no doubt that the party traps of the Council of State and the Right in the last municipal election campaign actively went out and promised that they would arrange money to finance the bridge. We believe that it may take longer to complete the bridge, and we believe that this is an important prerequisite that is changed by the fact that in the worst case the airport is shut down before the bridge is finished. It is such that the aerodrome shall be operated until the bridge is completed, but there may be a different situation here. Finally, the representative Odd Henriksen: It was nice to hear all the projects in Nordland. But these are projects that have been adopted or that are in the NTP, and there are still major challenges in the Nordic countries that you have not responded to in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1582	There's a lot of people who want to tell stories here, and there's a lot of people who look at the case with different glasses. I'll tell a true story, and it's from my state. During the red-greens, the municipality of Lindesne was built well and 2 km of wooden road in the middle of the E39 – with bad roads before and after the roundabout before and after. And it was actually a road where it was also asked at least to consider building wide transitions, so that one for the future might have the opportunity to expand the road – but no. This was 2 km – in the middle! Then we have another case from the same state: in 2005 a OPS project was launched by the Red-Greens with the construction of two fields over the Fedafjord. The Fedfjord is a deep and long fjord, and the broilers were made only for two fields. Those who have driven that way know what it's like to get out of the tunnel and straight out on a two-field bridge, where the wind blows across and one meets trailers. This is a road calculation where one of four that travels there is a trailer, and one marks the draw-suck on this bridge. At the time it was opened in 2005 — and 2005 is not long ago, 10 years ago — the NAF refused to join in opening the road, as it was already too old. That's the true story of the red-greens. And how is it now? The same path is now planned for four fields of long distances, overall construction, and it is socio-economically profitable. To make this post brief: This is the difference between before and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1591	If we're going to put the whole country into action, we need an offensive transport policy to land and to water, and in the air, as it's called in the adventure. With the representative Liv Signe Navarsete as Minister of Transport, the road to well-being and transportation was put really well on the map of Norway. This has been followed up later by several central party ministers. That is why I am pleased that today's Minister of Transport mainly follows up the national transport plan presented by the red-green government. However, we are concerned that today's government and the support parties do not seem to be concerned about using the whole country. For the third time in a row, the government cuts in commuting tax deductions – not just a little, but a lot. The center part does the opposite, we want to lighten the commuting corps. We do not want to charge the commuting extra charges in addition to the journey with extra high travel costs. It's demanding enough to be commuting as it is. Not enough, but the government also taxes driving compensation. A Council of State which comes from the Party for the reduction of taxes and charges increases the burden on commuters in addition to taxing driving allowances and retaining barriers that the Advance Party would remove. It's very special. So a little bit about Uppland: in 1988 the Stortinget dropped the Valdressbahn. Yesterday, the Stortinget, against the votes of the Workers' Party and the Center Party, practically dropped the airport at Leirin – to the cheer of the head of Hallingdølen newspaper, according to the Council of State. It's sad. The red-green government prioritised the deployment of E16 through Valdres in the NTP last. We even let the development of Philesberg into our own project funding, precisely because we wanted to make sure that there was a continuous expansion on this route. We have now come to the conclusion that it is planned to start construction on the route Øye–Eidsbru in 2016. The Turtnes-Øye regulatory plan was presented in November and is likely to be approved for spring. At the same time, we know that E16 over Philly will be cheaper than we originally thought. This means that one can get more money, as long as it is political will to do a smart grip – or another way to do it, as was mentioned here earlier. I'm glad that we in the Center Party have put money into such an expansion in our budget. I therefore hope that the Department will consider using the savings from the Filefjell project – Øye–Borlaug – to the route Turtnes–Øye, which would be a sensible measure to take in the same sling. As Åse Michaelsen said, it's not stupid to build continuously. If thinking new means doing things in a more efficient way, you could be like the Center Party, for example. halved toll charges for heavy transport. In any case, it would have made the bomb-removal decision of the Advance Party half so fluent.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1602	This debate shows how many roads we actually have in Norway and how many projects we are actually involved in. Getting a complete grip on everyone can be a challenge at any time. Of course, there is great interest because the need is great. I thought I would come up with some points of what has been mentioned in the debate so far. First of all, it's noted that you cut something to redeem properties in the West Corridor E18. One of the reasons why you do that is that you're in the process of redeeming properties at a point in time earlier than actually assumed by law. At the same time, turnover has not been so high, except that there is still a significant record that was not used in 2015 and that can be transferred – 240 million. kr. The fornebuban is also on the bed, but it is now such that even if the state has gone out and said that they cover 50 pst., the local authorities, the municipality and the county have to cover the other 50 pst. It's in itself a challenge and requires a lot of work. So it's not like that 70 pst. would have done something a lot better. There's actually a lot of billions left over we're talking about anyway. Then I'll come back to the costs of building out piece by piece and division. There's someone who says we're going to spend 60 million dollars. to establish a company which will now be allowed to build more fully. Yes, it costs something to implement a new company, but if we go back and look at what it has actually cost this country to build piece by piece and split – for example. E18 in Westfold with nine stages and E18 in Eastfold with seven stages – how much does it cost? It's a lot more expensive. Getting a complete grip, building completely and not piecefully and divided is a significant saving that far exceeds any cost of establishing a company. Then I want to say that the government that provided the first budget for the current NTP was the Stoltenberg II government. It provided the budget for 2014 before it went out. That's the first thing in this NTP period. And what did that contain? The railway maintenance run would have increased by another billion kroner also in 2014 if there had not been a new government. They cut interest subsidies for the counties so they could borrow more money cheaply to implement these projects. It is a paradox that in 2010, the Senter Party had both the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Municipal Affairs, and then most of the road system transferred to the counties holes for holes without taking hold of the huge aftermath that lay there, which is subsequently estimated at 45-75 billion. kr. It was transferred without taking over the enormous cost it entailed for those who received the gift.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1617	The working party has never made a choice to remove tolls. Where in the world did the Council of State get it from? My point was that the Progress Party in the elections guaranteed – guaranteed – that only they came to government, and it was without reservation about the election result, the bombs were to be removed. Now the Progress Party has both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Transport, and we have never paid more in tolls than we do now. It's their pledge to the voters, it's not the Workers' Party, no matter how much the Council of State tries to talk it away. It is a bit sought when the Progress Party attacks the Workers' Party for its own defeat. I hear that the representative Johnsen is talking a little about the transportation project in his and my home country Hedmark, but that's just talk, because in the setting he, the Progress Party or the Right Workers' Party and the Central Party's comments about the importance of the projects, and that's a shame. It's a shame for everyone who's concerned about growth and development in the interior. But he's obviously now most concerned about what's going on at home in the county, than what's happening in this hall. I'm asking the Council of State for one project: what's going on with Rv? 325 between Hamar and Elverum? I see the Council of State has asked for the word, and I hope he can give an answer in his article. Finally, we're going to make it easier for the commuters,' said the Council of State. Well, now the commuters get a big cut in the commuting allowance, as representatives Juvik and Tingelstad Wøien have been. They are the ones who are now going to be involved and pay for great tax relief to those who are the richest. The cheer has, as far as I know, not exactly stood in the ceiling among the commuters – at least not in our county, Hedmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1630	The government is governed by a very offensive national transport plan, and I am pleased that when three-quarters of this planning period has passed, yes, the government has managed to grant three-quarters of the money. In other words, one is on the way to comply with the national transport plan — yes, a rate of increase next year, too, so that the transport plan is over-implemented — not unlike the previous government did with its plans. But there are very big words used here, and I believe that the Progress Party must take on board that they had failed to implement the transport promise contained in the transport plan, which they now receive the honour and joy of implementing, if they had not set a new Norwegian record in tolls. It's a fact. What's the problem is that one doesn't just break the election vows like a go in the campaign, one breaks the promises like a go after the election, too. In Stavanger Aftenblad, I read that the Minister for Transport was out and promised a state guarantee scheme for toll loans. It has been proposed by the Central Party in Stortinget, but it has been voted down. I would like the Minister of Transport to take seriously the situation that electric cars lead to in some toll projects, and not refer to years ago, as the challenge of financing electric cars was quite different from today. I had a meeting with the contractors in South Rogaland. They thought there were many fine words, but when they go into Doffin to look for assignments, they now find no mission in the field of transportation in Rogaland. It's bad in a situation where the unemployment rate is rising. We know that a Ryfast project is being built. Had it been that the Progress Party voted on 12 June 2012, it would have been quiet on that site. Ryfast had not been under construction. I want to challenge the state council to say something about the plans for the next NTP. What financial framework has he established in the order given to the trade unions? It could have been in place to get a clarification. For one, as I said, cannot drive on a KVU, the road must also be built. Finally, a short comment on Åse Michaelsen's post: It is right that the red-greens should blame too much, but a road that opened in 2005 – to blame the red-green government for it! Sure we built the road efficiently, but we actually couldn't build the OPS project in a few weeks. It was a project that just remained to be opened, and a lack of genuineness in the argumentation I could also demand from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1645	This debate has been interesting, and I think I will very much agree with the Council of State that the budget must be very good when there are so small things to discuss, and the opposition is concerned about. The working party welcomes the passenger fee. It is nice that they have been involved in fees, but where was the Workers' Party in April, when the national meeting decided to transfer the tax-free sales to the Vinmonopolet? Where was the Workers' Party when the same day, once it was adopted, went out of Rygge Airport and said this was not good? That means the end of the airport, they said to the NRK. That means $2.50. kr in lost revenue of Avinor. Where, then, was the Workers' Party's commitment? I have not seen any representative be very engaged then – only the locals from the Workers' Party in Eastfold. It's quite interesting when the Workers' Party is trying to present it as if they had such big plans. The representative Juvik here says that it was discovered in 2013 that the maturity had increased. Then they took it inwards. Yes, it was hunting time, after having run for eight consecutive years. It may be up to the Workers' Party in the Chamber to draw attention to: what is the Workers' Party's success now? In the text of their alternative budget, they state that the planning time and construction time on the road and on the track must be halved. But there are no signs and no signals of what they'll do differently, you just keep doing as you did before, in the eight preceding years. You have to run faster, obviously. But the Right and Advance Party have made proposals and started: Road reform, with the new road company – the Labour Party voted against. Toll reform, with more effective collection – The Labour Party voted against. The railway reform, to organise work on Norwegian railways in a new and better way – the Labour Party voted against. The working party is obviously, just as they have always been, against thinking new. You're happy with what you've done, but you're saying that you'd like to do it differently. It's going to be like the motorway plan from the 1960s, it's not going to be a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1660	The transport debate confirms a fairly large agreement that we are going to spend a lot of money on transport in the future. For both parties of government have left their airy promises. Government Party Right pledged as known 2 billion. kr more than the NTP framework each year in its option, while the Progress Party promised 45.5 billion. kr more annually. But it was then. It was the last time there was white winter in tround layers, and it actually starts to be a few years ago. I would like to say a few words about the road and send a visit to the representative Frank Jensen from Trøndelag. The new road company has announced project manager for E6 Tøndelag, said the representative Frank Josef Jensen, so everything is getting so much better now. The regulation plan for E6 Ranheim–Værnes was sent to political treatment in Trondheim, Malvik and Stjørdal municipalities in September 2015, i.e. this autumn, so that it could be adopted in April 2016, and that route would have been planned to be completed. The safety of traffic and the emergence of weather, the Stavsjø tunnel and the Hell tunnel need to be improved in line with the Tunnel Directive on this route, which lies in the densest growth axis of the entire Trøndelag. These tunnels are often closed, and when events occur, traffic disruption stops. And the accident figures are too high. The road operator assumes responsibility for these sections of road on 1 January 2016, and it is the board of the road operator who prioritises the order of development for the sections for which they are responsible. As long as they haven't said that this is as urgent as the elected members of the Trondelag have said it's urgent, we're late. Then it is mildly grotesque to listen to Frank Jensen's attempt to simulate faster progress with the road company as responsible. This power of action – where did it come from? Before they became members of the government, the Progress Party believed that the Trønderbanen and the Meråkerbanen had to be electrified as quickly as possible, i.e. on the contrary, as we say in Trøndelag. This year's budget proposal confirms: Meråkerbanen and Trønderbanen have slowed progress in 2015, and this is justified by increased cost control and project management. You the world – the power of action has unfortunately subsided when one went from being in opposition to becoming responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1669	Not only Frank Jensen: Frank Josef Jensen, as Kjerkol and Otterstad so cheerfully underline – my proud middle name. First to Kjerkol: Very familiar, the right has actually stood by his promise of 2 billion. Extra kroner. Now it's got to be, it's a number discussion. I am a little surprised by the Workers' Party in this debate linked to the E6 through the South-Tronde Team. Now, when we're going to start building E6 through Tree Layer, the Workers' Party expresses concern that this could be delayed. So it says the party if the county rapporteur has traveled to Oslo and the lobby for faster progress, even under the previous government, because you were concerned that with the red-green progress, the road section E6 did not get through the South-Tronde layer to be finished by 2032, as the Workers' Party's County rapporteur said. I am not sure if the «Leks» he got back is the same as the Workers' Party's representatives say something about this today, namely: Oh, yes, we have to fix this. Oh, well, this is going to go so fast, we're fixing this. If we win the election, you see, we're going to fix this. No, of course it wasn't like that. The fear of slow progress and little money for the project was, of course, significant, far into the Workers' Party's ranks in Trøndelag at the time. That was when there was cause for concern. Now we're going to start building the road, and now, all of a sudden, the Working Party at Stortinget is worried about progress. Yes, we have established New Veier AS. It sounds as if the representative of Otterstad is surprised that building and planning a road requires operational resources. If it has been the starting point of the Workers' Party, that it may have been thought that neither the Road Administration, the Railway Agency nor any other operational means are needed to plan a road, one can begin to approach little by little the explanation of weak progress in the red-green transport plans. Now we have set up a road company to ensure the rapid and continuous development of both E6 in Trøndelag and other road sections. That's now we can definitely say that we're getting built E6 through the Trendelag. We couldn't do that when the red-green fell. But now that we can say for sure, the Workers' Party is going around here and is worried. It's in no way for believers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1684	I hear that the representatives of the Party of Advancement and the Right are much more concerned with the time of red-green government than their own. It tells a lot. What about standing up for your own suggestions? What about standing up for your own policies? What about standing up for the policy actually pursued by the Right Party and the Advance Party? The representatives of the Right and the Advance Party do not. They do not stand up for their own policies. They spend a lot of time up here on the pulpit to blame others, and on the other hand, they do it with great glow and enthusiasm. But when they're going to tell about their own policies, they're wondering as far away as they can. Then I heard the Council of State pointing out that tolls were cut. That's not what was promised from the Progress Party. The tolls were going away. They had to be removed. That message was hammered into for years. It was not to be misunderstood. The Per Sandberg of the Progress Party referred to the tolls as a herd. Bård Hoksrud, High Representative for the Advance Party, was fast on the ball and followed up with the following statement: ‘We shall ensure that this banner is removed.’ Then I ask the Council of State: Where did the removal of the foliage come from, and why does the Minister of the Progress Party not conduct his own policy? Why does he just complain about everyone else? One can ask the Minister how many toll projects the Progress Party here in Stortinget has voted against since November 2013, or perhaps better: we can ask the Council of State how many toll projects the representatives of the Progress Party have voted for in this Chamber since November 2013. The fact is that TV 2’s ‘bomometer’ is ticking faster than ever with the Progress Party in government. Nearly 18 billion. kr has been thrown in since Solvik-Olsen became Minister for Transport of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1695	It's nice to hear the Workers' Party's busyness of tolls, which the Workers' Party here took completely away from the fact that they would be involved and removed. No, where could anything like that come from, the representative asked Sønsterud about. But then they're very concerned that the Progress Party doesn't get a majority to remove the same toll. That's kind of weird. I never remember that the Progress Party in opposition criticized the Workers' Party for not increasing the taxes even more than they did. On the contrary, we proposed cutting taxes. We lost. If the voters are busy cutting tolls, they know which batch to vote for. It is absolutely not the Workers' Party, the Workers' Party itself has pointed out. This debate is getting a little weird again, because most of the efforts of the Workers' Party are saying that they are the ones who have the credit for the government providing a good transport policy. Then I just said thank you for the praise. I wanted the same approach there when the Workers' Party presented its national motorway plan in 1963. Unfortunately, we didn't see much of it. Thus, even in the national transport plan from the previous period, more than 20 road projects were delayed. Now the discussion is more that a fear that road projects may be delayed in the future. You don't have any concrete examples that that's the case now, but you're afraid it can happen in the future. Then the E6 was brought forward in Trøndelag: the County rapporteur from the Workers' Party travelled to Oslo to say that they could not carry it out after 2032, as the Workers' Party decided in government, they had to get it speeded up. We're speeding it up, so we're getting critical that we don't speed it up enough. Again, it becomes like Brazil complains that they only lost 7–1 against Germany in the World Cup final, and that Germany should beat them 10–1. As a German, you're probably happy that you won the battle. Then I register that even the Center Party and the Workers' Party last year suggested that a new NTP be submitted because today's government had so many extra efforts in the budgets – and plans. It is also forgotten in this debate. A few other things I have noticed in this discussion. We have received criticism from SV that there was too much air pollution in Oslo from 2009 to 2012. I just want to remind you who crashed the country when that measurement period was. We get criticism from the Workers' Party's Myrli that a route was opened which the Progress Party allegedly opposed. No, we disagreed with the trasé elections, we weren't against the railway. Then maybe we can end that debate, which is based on the faults of the Workers' Party. It is a little strange to hear that the Workers' Party says that we need to invest more in public transport, without at least recognising that the appropriations for, for example, Oslo has quadrupled with today's government compared to its own government. It is a little strange when the Workers' Party says that everyone has been for maintenance. That's absolutely right. The Labour Party even said in the government that it was an important priority – in 2006. Nevertheless, the maturity doubled during the government period. That is why it is important to bring facts and history together.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1712	What made me take the floor was Åse Michaelsen's speech, and the hoax about the difference between the red-green policy and the current government's policy with regard to West Agder, as well as the fact that the red-greens had built 2 km of road. I'm going to come back to that, but first what was said about the Lister package: it was actually the Bondevik government that planned it, but the Workers' Party was allowed to finish it. It is produced as if there has been no good project. In Lister, everyone talks about the region before and after the Lister package. It has become a common, good working region. It's been a great success for the whole Lister. This government is largely governed by the NTP of the Stoltenberg government. I remember that the Workers' Party was suspended in the election campaign because we had only added 400 million. kr in the first period 2014-2017 on the route Søgne-Lwigal. I'd like to say to Åse Michaelsen that yes, there are great expectations in South Africa for future road development, but it has also been created before by the representative Åse Michaelsen. Before the election, Michaelsen guaranteed that a new four-field road would be completed between Kristiansand and Stavanger in 10 years, only they would enter the government and set up the new company. There isn't one spade roof yet, and I don't think there's anything special about that stretch during this period. That's what created uncertainty about it. A road company has been set up correctly, but now the portfolio has also been extended to 20 years. It depends on annual appropriations, and projects will also compete with those that are the best in society. In the South we call for a new road. It won't be in 10 years. At best it will be in 20 years, and there is something quite different than the representative Åse Michaelsen was so high on the field about in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1721	Scary propaganda and unruly rhetoric are rarely constructive. I'm a little surprised at the Workers' Party's intention when they used to say measured speaking time here to talk down and so uncertain about their own local projects. Rommetvet talked about handling the submarine missile U-864, where he referred to a remark from 2011. I would like to remind you that what was done by the red-green, consisted of the distribution, and first with the Right and the Advance Party in the government, decisions were actually taken. Support filling shall be built, and it is entirely undramatic to use 10 million. kr less in 2016 when the reason is that it is not appropriate to start work while winter storms rage at worst outside of Fedje. Support filling shall be provided and the solution for further handling of U-864 shall be provided. When it comes to the Labour Party’s attempt — including in today’s debate — to turn it into a closure of the Leirin airport, it is disappointing. It's a shame that the starting point and the bet for Leirin as a charter airport for local players are being talked down by their own politicians from Valdres. I have great faith that local ownership and alternative forms of operation for Avinor will be able to find their way by Leirin – in close and good dialogue with the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1728	The Minister for Transport said this debate would be nice. I agree with him on that, and the nicest thing is that it is the Minister for Transport who makes sure that this debate is very nice. There's a lot to the back. I came along at the clock when the Minister for Transport spoke. When he had finished rolling over the Workers' Party and the previous government, the clock was on 04.45. So he had talked for over 5 minutes before he even came up with a single idea of what he wants to do. He's talking about a 1962 motorway plan. But what does the Minister for Transport want? Is he going to come up with some highway plan? What does he want in the future? Nor is it true that he has received criticism from Myrli that he opened the double track along Mjösa. It's completely wrong. I commended him. I thought it was very fine, but I reminded him that the Progress Party voted against when we had the double-track development for treatment in the Stortinget in December 2011. The Helge Place used its second post – 3 minutes – to indicate the opposition’s solutions. If you are going to criticize someone else for not having solutions, you should at least have some solutions yourself. He did not have one solution in his post. Not one thought of what he would do in the future – 3 minutes. Can we not look forward and discuss what we want to do next year, what we will then, and stagger the course forward instead of just talking about what has happened? I think the Minister for Transport and the majority parties are a little offensive. It is the opposition's speakers who have addressed the climate challenges in the first place. It's the opposition's speakers who have addressed the major urban challenges and what we're going to do there. I want to go to a project in my own country, and now I see my good friend Nils Aage Igstad listening – that’s good. For many years it has been working to get a new bridge over Glomma on Fetsund, rv. 22, an important connection to the east. There the Vegvesen people have said that it is possible to complete a new bridge in 2024. In the setting we ask if it is not possible to build it a little earlier. We even use the term ‘closer’. It is not very rabiat – ‘closed to’ – but no, it is not possible to be involved. It's completely silent, there's not one comment from the majority parties about what they're going to do in the future. Now it's going to be the end of building piece by piece and division, we hear. Yes, let's stop doing that, we say. At E16 in Valdres, construction starts on the island-Eidsbru pair until next year. The road authorities say that there are tens of millions of dollars to save on building the Parcel Turtnes – Øye at the same time. And then we say, "Can't we try to do that?" No, say the government parties. It's not possible to build the two parcels at the same time and save $10 million. End with the way to debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1739	The representative Tor André Johnsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1742	Swearing Myrli asks about what we're going to do, and Gunnar Gundersen and I were criticized here by Tone Sønderud for just talking – that there's a lot of talk, and no action. I want to mention the three paths that Tone Sønsterud probably refers to. One was E6 -- that's where we take the E6 out of the NTP -- we're accelerating it for many, many years. We're building 43 miles in a row. It's historical, as I said instead – it's never been done before. The working party was supposed to split up the parcel and save 11 km again for some other time. On rv. 325, we've allocated 60 million. kr in the revised budget this year. I have to admit that the red-greens didn't have one penny there in their NTP plan and in their budget. In the case of E16, we're actually working on a further solution for Sweden with four fields. I hope it can please Tone Sønsterud – who was a little worried about it, I realized, and that's good. With regard to further E16 in Nes and South Odal, there are unfortunately challenges with basic conditions that take some time, but we're working on it, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1747	When I hear my Nordic colleagues from the opposition here on Stortinget, I really wonder if we're moving in the same part of the country. It seems as if they are criticizing only for criticizing, and neither have they read nor have they brought with them the movement effort that our government has contributed to our county. Luckily, at least the Regional Road Manager got it with him, so they might want to have a cup of coffee with him next time they're in the county. For renewal and upgrading of county roads only a total of 1.23 billion has been proposed. kr for 2016 – an increase of 230 million. kr from 2015. The national transport plan envisages the allocation of 680 million. kr in the year of this item for the years 2014 to 2017. We are well ahead of this level, and with the 2016 budget, we will have allocated a total of 836 million. kr more than the red-green government added to the NTP. For Nordland, this means 174.5 million. kr in 2016 – an increase of 32 million. kr from 2015. The increase in appropriations above the NTP level means that Nordic countries have received about 118 million. kr more with us in government only at this post – than if we had followed the irresponsible low level the red-green added to the NTP. For the follow-up of tunnel regulations on the county roads 279,3 million have been proposed. kr in 2016 – an increase of 272 million. kr in 2015. This regulation did not have any plans to introduce to the county roads when we took over. This government is ensuring that the money comes with the introduction of new regulations, as opposed to what we were used to from the red-green government. Nordland, of course, gets the next most money out of this pot -- that means 54 million. kr in 2016. It is natural to add up the appropriations for renewal and upgrading and to the tunnel regulations. Compared to what is underlying the NTP – which the red-green batches sold out as the rescue for the county roads – we are about 1.4 billion. kr in advance of the planned allocation within three years. For Northern Ireland, overall, it means that the county has received about 233 million. kr more in the years 2014–2016 together with the government that has granted – compared to what the red-green plan in NTP was. I think we're going to take on the brilliance of what this government is doing for Nordland – instead of making it look like the government's running Nordland.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1754	We are in a time when there is a great need to create jobs. There is a need to create new jobs, and there is a need to take care of the jobs we have. In Norway, we have many jobs related to aviation. The majority of the parties have now decided not only to introduce tolls on the ground, but also to introduce tolls into the air – DKK 88. In addition, VAT has been increased on air travel. I was at Moss Airport Rygge yesterday. There they met all the employees because 500 employees in Eastfold are at risk of losing their jobs because of the policies of the majority parties. That is the consequence of this government's transport policy. I think that's very, very serious. I was also last Monday at Sandefjord Airport Torp. There they were also deeply concerned about the development. They had received – or received – a message that Mr. Onkøe drew his offer. The economy of Torp is under pressure. Torp Airport is a very important airport for business in the region, but it is now threatened by this government's policy. When the Geiteback was laid down, Torp Airport received a bill of several million kroner. One fears as a consequence of any closure on Rygge, that the entire bill that Rygge has today to Avinor, will be transferred to Torp. I hope the Minister of Transport can confirm that this will happen. For as I see it, private airports experience a Minister of Transport who makes up, who listens, who is interested, who shows understanding – but nothing happens. This is where I fear that there may have been a confusion between the power of action and the power of speech. Smoking airport and Torp airport have an important role in the regions where they are located, and they must not get the kind of surprise they got after one night the four majority parties had on the Stortinget. It's an unprofessional business policy – it shouldn't be the government's fault. But now I am concerned that the Minister for Transport is using his ability within Avinor to at least minimise the consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1761	Several representatives of the government parties, and especially the Right, claim that pointing to challenges and lack of action in the sphere of government transport, is talking down a region, talking down a part of the country. Pointing to the government's lack of efforts and pointing to other solutions, even better solutions, is not talking down a region or talking down a part of the country. I'm proud to come from North Norway, and I'm provoked to hear claims that I'm talking down the part of the country I come from when I point to challenges that we have. I understand that the Council of State believes that he has found a solution to cover Narvik's share of Hålogalandsbrua. This means that the municipality of Narvik will receive 30 million. kr from the interest-rate compensation scheme for toll loans until next year, i.e. can this scheme help to strengthen the local economy? Or does that mean that the airport is open until the autumn of 2017 when the bridge is ready, as the assumption was? Here there is a need for clarification from the Council of State. The solution of the local representatives from the Right and the Advance Party has been a one-off grant of 30 million. kr. This has now been proposed by the Labour Party, and it seems that the Right Party and the Advance Party are going to vote it down. I note that the Council of State has found a solution, but we can easily say that it is rather unclear. Today, the Workers' Party and the Centre are promoting proposals to plan a dual-track capacity increase on Ofotban so that funds are prioritised in the National Transport Plan 2018-2029. There are two things that are important in terms of planning now: one is that the action is sufficiently well planned, so that it can enter the NTP, and the other is that a railway plan is created for the first double-track parcel, so that it can be planned as early as next year. In the summer of 2014, the Minister for Transport said that funds for Ofotbanen had to be taken away from NTP. But when the Prime Minister visited Narvik in the election campaign, she said this was unrealistic. There are different signals coming in, and there is no willingness to give priority to the capacity increase promised in 2014. Councillor Solvik-Olsen has promised 20. kr, but in the budget are not double tracks on Ofotbanen. The Minister of Transport says that this project must be excluded from the NTP, while the Prime Minister says that it is natural that the project is part of the NTP. What is the government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1774	The representative, Willfred Nordlund, has spoken twice earlier and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1778	That's what an interesting debate has to be called. The biggest challenge that the undersigned is facing here is when individual representatives, especially from northern regions, take the floor and misdirect the hall. It is possible that since she is on the Justice Committee, the representative Ebbesen has not read the income system for municipalities and county municipalities either for 2015 or 2016, but at least the undersigned can state that the reduction is several hundred million when we talk about total transport investments on the county roads and on other transport infrastructure – and only for Nordland. In fact, the income system, with the changes in it – i.e. the ability of municipalities to actually implement this so-called historic transport solution in the north – has been severely weakened by this government. In fact, the losses and changes were over 300 million. kr only for the current year, and it includes the so-called glorified tunnel bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1783	We're discussing a budget that has grown from 41 billion. SEK in 2013 to SEK 60 billion. kr in 2016. One should not think that there was so much money available when one hears the opposition talking, but that is a record level. And we're ahead of the plans in the national transport plan. We cut the maintenance seat run faster than planned. We keep the road projects going. We're planning more than ever, and we're reorganizing the sector. I have not heard of any alternative proposals for how the money should be prioritised in a better way, or about reforms that should have been carried out in another way – except that the Workers' Party is trying to give the impression that nothing else is happening than what should have happened in any case. Let me therefore again point out that there are quite a number of factual errors that emerge in the debate. The representative Sverre Myrli asks, is there going to be a highway plan? One should read in the press release that it comes in the national transport plan. And we intend to do that, as opposed to the Motor Road Plan of the Workers' Party. I remember again that the railway and E6 would still be built past Minnesund if the Progress Party had been run a few years ago, but it had a different trajectory. So I hope that the Workers' Party can bring with it that it is possible to lay a road in two different places, and the road would still be built on one of them – and not pretend it would not be built at all. I've shown you how we could do it with the Hålogaland Bridge. The interesting thing is, however, that the Workers' Party was the people who created the problem. It was working party rapporteurs who agreed that the municipality should pay, it was the Workers' Party in the government that said the municipality should pay. And when today's government sketches a solution, later one as if it doesn't exist. I notice that one says that the E16 should have been built in a different way, that it has been broken up, broken and split, and now the government should fix it – without one taking responsibility for the fact that it actually happened under the previous government. Today's government has shown through the road company how we can merge projects and implement them better. But then the Workers' Party is against that solution too. So there's a lot of criticism and little solution. The central party criticised the assignment of foreign entrepreneurs in Norway, but forgot that it was a central party council that went out actively in 2012 and wanted more foreign entrepreneurs to Norway. The Labour Party says that we must start taking a special responsibility for investment in collective infrastructure in cities, but forget that the government is already doing it, by saying that the state should take 50 pst. of the investment costs. Then the Center Party – finally – is concerned about the fare. It was not a charge that was in the government's budget proposal, but it is part of the Storting's settlement, and then we're going to stand behind it. But I remind you that the option was to give a majority to a constellation that would increase taxes and taxes by 10 billion. kr or more, and which would remove the tax-free scheme, which would have meant that airports had to increase the charges far more than what the seat charge represents and where the Senterpartie would have ensured that Rygge and Torp had lost all revenue from tax-free. At least there must be agreement between what one says, and what one does, as the central party in this case is not. With the politics of the Center Party, one would be the first to have got Rygge and Torp to be shut down, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1804	The representative Åse Michaelsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1807	The representative of Omland mentioned the list package. Yes, it was much better than it was, but it wasn't forward-looking. I would also like to remind you that for the first time in 2013. About E39: When we took over in 2013, almost no planning was in place. Everything was piece by piece and divided and based on a red-green NTP, which – as everyone knows – is without means. It's a plan, and we have to fight from year to year in this room to secure the funds. Now it's full roll. The municipalities along the route do a fantastic job, and I am just as convinced today as I have been all the time that we will be able in ten years to have four fields on the Kristiansand–Stavanger route. So just a little comment to the representative Willfred Nordlund on capital at state level. Very familiar is that Nordland County owns shares in Onøe for 70 million. kr. They own 20 pst. by DIPS ASA. The bureaucracy is growing. That's 100 million. kr above the average of administrative costs in relation to, for example: Rogaland County.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1816	The representative, Tone Merete Sønsterud, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1819	The Council of State continues its strange rhetoric to try to explain its defeat in relation to tolls – but he does. The representative Johnsen is talking about doing so much for the projects in Hedmark, but that's just talking. There is not a single word written about it in the settings we are currently working on. The representative Stordalen claims that we are just discussing the small things. Well, what's that, for example? is done by rv. 3/25, is probably a small matter for the representative Stordalen, but it is important for Hedmark and for the interior. I'll ask the Council again: what happens to that project now?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1828	As a Northernlander, who knows both the county and the People's Society well, I don't recognize myself in these molested performances of the Nordic representatives. I'm used to a crowd who's voted in favour. It's okay that it's dark time, but it doesn't have to be completely night for that reason. I miss big-time representatives of the Bjarne Dark Eidem, Eivind Bolle, Hill-Marta Solberg, who, whether they were in opposition or in position, had a constructive approach to what was discussed. There's something to go on. Let's take a short tour and see what this government actually delivers in this state budget on the transport side of North Norway: E6 Helgeland Sør, E10 Solbjørnneset-Hamnøy, E6 through Sørfold, Rv. 77 Mountain, Nordlandsbanen extension measures, Nordlandsbanen race protection, Train dredging of the ports, Hovden the same, Napp the same, Steigen, Myre fishing port, entrance to Bodø, crossing track Retan, upgrade of Dunderlandsbanen, and in Narvik, just outside the kitchen window of the representative Ljunggren, capacity increase at Ofotbanen and Narvik station to the net sum of 306 million. kr. I'm proud. I recommend to the representatives from the Nordic countries, and in particular the Nordic Workers' Party and the Nordic Central Party, to find out a little bit of the fire of the enthusiasm that characterizes the northern country when he sees a good budget for transport, no matter who delivers it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1835	As a northerner, I can promise the representative of Elvenes that when I see a good transport budget for Nordland, I will play a party march. In this debate, the parties of government have been so dazzled by their own excellence that they are hard hit and hurt when they are criticized for what is not good enough. I have to be allowed to say that I have a different view of being in government than the Council of State has, because I am used to the fact that the Councils of State are standing up for the budget they are delivering, and I have to say that it is actually a historically high collection of tolls, and that they have not been delivered. It's no use riding two horses. It's no use talking about the government doing yours and your daughter, and that's not what we in the Progress Party really want to do. It is not to take responsibility. So a little bit about the maintenance, because the Council of State is very concerned that it should be despicable. That is a good starting point, but then you should go ahead as a good example. There has been a broad political consensus in this room, in political Norway and in business that there is a need to resume the maintenance phase. Therefore, when they were going to make the plan in 2009, they were told to increase the maintenance by 20 pst. When the order came for the plan to be submitted in 2013, the order was to increase by another 30 pst. And then it says in the plan that was adopted, that the maintenance should be resumed early in this period. We are very pleased that you live up to that, because there has been a political consensus on that. So this morning I asked the Council of State what happened to the motorway plan – with four fields – that was presented by the Workers' Party. Well, it was added – it was added by Minister of Transport Kyllingmark, a right-wing man. That's why it wasn't realized. Governments have had a total speaking time today in 28 minutes – the most sovereign of all. I very much agree with the representative Sverre Myrli, who is asking what the future is, what the visions are. There is not a single word about the northern regions, the main area of government. We have made proposals to support investment in Svalbard, which is important for further development in the northern regions. We're busy with the Ofot Railway. It's not important for the Council of State. How to meet employment? The representative Pollestad was concerned about the deep concerns he has for his homeland, and for the lack of effects of historically high investments on transport, in line with NTP. That's not a word from the Council of State about it. Several representatives have believed that we should take seriously the good ambitions and commitments made by the government on behalf of the nation in Paris, and that there could be something we should also discuss here, in connection with the government budget for next year, because that is the case, and because this is where we have to make dramatic cuts, according to the colleague of the Council of State. But no, the Council of State has held a history lecture, and unfortunately it has not been particularly despicable either.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1850	Kjell-Idar Juvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1853	You would have expected a little bit more exasperation from this pulpit. It's not like someone's trying to make it, that the Workers' Party has proposed to shut down the tax-free system. On the contrary, the national meeting has actually said something else. It has been said that you should look at whether Avinor can go in and drift – that is correct. But standing on the platform and claiming this is directly wrong. On the contrary, the Workers' Party is a supporter and champion of the so-called Avinor model, the way we use the revenues at all our airports, and that's important. In fact, we have said in a note that we are willing to strengthen Avinor's equity to meet the future investments – as opposed to the government parties, which have actually increased profits in the proposal in Stortinget today. There's a need to raise capital, because there's a lot of investment going on. I can mention the airport at Mo, moving the runway in Bodø, new solutions for Hammerfest and Lofoten. So that's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1858	I need to link some comments to the E6 south of Trondheim. On the one hand, the Right and Advance Party have promised a completion of the E6 south of Trondheim by 2023. On the other hand, the route has now been added to the development company, which will make its own independent assessment of when the route will be completed. I thought that was the whole point of the new organization. Who's the one who's the man who's the man who's the man who's the man who's the Is that the government, or is it the expansion company? On the one hand, the Right and Advance Party say continuous and comprehensive development of the road. On the other hand, a small section of the E6 south of Trondheim is taken out of the company, so that something lies in the company, and something remains in the state road system. What has happened to continuous and comprehensive expansion by the government? On the one hand, the Minister says that County rapporteur Tore Sandvik from the South Trondelag has traveled to Oslo to speed up E6 south. On the other hand, I know that the county rapporteur, Tore Sandvik, has never met the minister on this very matter. That some other politicians from the County Municipality of South Trondelag have said so, are she okay, but is it strange that we from the Workers' Party are becoming somewhat concerned about the route E6 south of Trondheim? Unlike the Council of State, we in the Workers' Party are not afraid to boast when we believe that the government is doing something good. The more we find reason to point out shortcomings when we believe that the government does not respond to the challenges we face. This applies not least to climate. The Minister for Transport has not mentioned the issue today, the Minister has not answered questions he has been directly challenged on: How are we going to manage to cut greenhouse gas emissions? I stand by my conclusion in the first post I had: I cannot see that the government in its proposal for the government budget for next year, and not least in today's debate, is making the right priorities and is able to take responsibility for the fact that we in the transport sector are able to cut greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1872	The representative of Haarek Rivers has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1875	I take the floor to clear out what is probably an obvious disinformation from the representative Sivertsen. He says he's a northerner, but in my ears he seemed to be a full-blooded trouser.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1880	The representative, Magne Rommetvei, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1883	Now when I have just 1 minute of speaking time, I should probably spend the time hacking at the government, but 1 minute is now just 1 minute, and it's approaching Christmas. So I want to use these last words to say that I am very pleased that the Council of State has now clarified that the joint project E16 Mørsvikbotn on the Arna–Voss section will be expanded after the so-called K5 option. The representative, Toril Eidsheim, said earlier in the debate that the decision about K5 came so quickly that we in the Labour Party were unable to follow in our remarks. I rather believe that when the Council of State saw our remark, he hurried to decide, and it was time – one and a half years after the KVU was presented. - So Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1890	It's entertaining when you get your mouth shut because today's majority sometimes compares to what the red-greens did in their eight years. In order to explain why the 1963 national motorway plan did not work, the Workers' Party owes it to the Right – which means that the Right is the reason why the Workers' Party failed to comply with its own plans for 50 years. That's funny. It is claimed that the government and the undersigned have not mentioned the climate in a word. At least it says in my script that I talked about it, and I also answered questions about it in the line change. I recommend that a reader review. So it's said that we haven't talked about North Norway. It will also be in the record that I did. It's said that we're all for maintenance, and that one doesn't understand why today's majority points out so many times that the maturity is now decreasing, because no one is against it. That's absolutely right. No one's against it. As I mentioned, as early as 2006 the previous government of the then Minister of Transport, Navarsete, pointed out that maintenance losses had to be reduced, not increased. Now anyway, this is a theme, because despite the fact that the red-greens, after they came into government promised to cut in decline, it increased year by year, eight years in a row. It is true that today’s national transport plan proposed a higher level of maintenance than in the previous national transport plan. I have also pointed out that despite the fact that in 2014 we entered a new NTP period, the red-green government chose to provide a budget for 2014 before they left, which reduced the maintenance and renewal of road and rail. So despite the fact that the plans were an increase, what was delivered before the government change was a decrease. It shows the difference between life and learning and between words, rhetoric and facts. That's what's kind of interesting. It is noted by Mr Tung that the rapporteur-general has not been in Oslo. Yes, I've met him in Oslo, but it's true that at the meeting where the South Trondelag County Municipality begged for us to speed up the E6, the county rapporteur was not present. But it was after all his crew who were there, with the presentation with the South-Trundellag County logo. So it's the official South Dream Team that's been in our office to ask that we not follow the NTP from the red-green, but that we should do more. Now when we do more, it's a little bit strange that we get criticism for it. There is a lot of this debate. The Labour Party refers to what the Progress Party and the Right have promised, and that we promised much more than them, but that we only deliver a lot more than they do. But the fact for the voters is in any case that with the Workers' Party they had got less than what is now delivered, because the Workers' Party had less ambitions. As I mentioned earlier, in the national transport plan in the previous period, more than 20 road projects were delayed. Now one just goes and fears that road projects can be delayed in the future, and that's also a very different reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1905	The representative Helge Orten has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1908	I'm allowed to spend the time well. The representative Myrli believes that we spend a lot of our time talking about opposition policy. It's completely wrong. Myrli must begin to listen. If he had heard my posts from earlier today, and otherwise, he would have heard that I was talking about our own policies and our solutions. I talked about the road company, and I talked about new methods of implementation, such as. (C) 2005-2008, (C) 2005-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) I was talking about the toll reform, I was talking about the railway reform, and I was talking about the budget – which I think is a good budget for 2016. At the same time, it must be allowed to ask, when the Workers' Party once more votes against all these proposals for innovation: what is the alternative solution to the Workers' Party? The debate has not answered that. The problem for Myrli is enough that he is basically just against, without having any new solutions. I think that's a little too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1915	The representative Odd Omland has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1918	Åse Michaelsen said in his last post that there was no provision for planning funds in the NTP that the Workers' Party has submitted. That doesn't lead to correctness. We even put off 400 million. kr for this line of start-up materials in the first period from 2014 to 2017. What perhaps surprises me most is that the representative Åse Michaelsen repeats that she has the guarantee of ten years that she gave before the election – that then the section Kristiansand–Stavanger would be finished. It doesn't look like it's going to start in this accumulation period, and so it's going to be in six years. Does Åse really believe that it is feasible to complete the Kristiansand–Stavanger route as a four-field road in six years?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1923	The representative, Eirik Sivertsen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1926	Let me start by saying that after the 31st minute in the pulpit, the Council of State was not able to look forward. I took the floor for an explanation of vote. I would like to state that the Labour Party will support proposal No. 7 in the vote, and we will vote subsidiaryly for framework decisions under A, since our proposal for a framework decision is then dropped. Then I must be allowed to say that I believe the representative of the Elves – at least for me – reached a new bottom at the Stockholm Chair today. I actually didn't think my ethnic origin was going to be a topic that was interesting to discuss in the national parliament. I'll choose to stay too good to go into that discussion. One can imagine that we replaced ethnicity with sexual orientation or religion – a theme that I don't think belongs to this pulpit either.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1936	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1939	I react to the fact that the Council of State is taking so lightly on the situation at Sandefjord airport and Moss airport, because it is not only that there is a charge coming, but also that the actors are not prepared at all for it. They have not been given their opinion. It is quite right, as the Council of State points out, that the Central Party also has views on aviation – whether it is right that it is subsidised and financed through alcohol or whether it should be done through the State budget. But we would never think of introducing such a decision without a proper process, and without ensuring that the district air services could live on. I believe that the Council of State must pay more attention to the situation that is at Sandefjord and Moss airports now. I hope he will do it further and not turn this into a rhetorical exercise – because these are realities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1944	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1958	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1972	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e1986	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2000	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2014	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to six lines with replies after contributions from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2021	This proposal, from the representatives of the big business Per Olaf Lundteigen, Kjersti Toppe, Geir Pollestad and Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum on the establishment of a green investment company for the development of technology companies, green carbon, has been under consideration here in Stortinget for some months. It was promoted in ours and first came to the Energy and Environment Committee, but eventually ended up with us in the Business Committee. The proposal addresses the need for risk capital for capital-intensive research and development projects in new green carbon-based solutions and technologies to commercialise it. The proposers justify the need for a new state-wide investment company that the development of new solutions for the use of biomass – or renewable and green carbon – requires very high-risk investments. The Committee agrees with the proposers that Norway should take a leading position in the field of bioeconomy, and we must recognise that the current instrument is not satisfactory. We know that the state investment company Investinor AS has for several years had a framework of 500 million. kr, earmarked for investments in Norwegian companies in the early growth phase of the wood industry. Still, only a little over 10 pst. has been used by this framework. It means one of two things, either that there are not good enough projects, or that Investinor operates with investment criteria that are too strict – or maybe a combination. In the proposal, the proposers are also very detailed as to the nature and mandate of this new state investment company, and as such may be more detailed than a majority in the Committee would like to conclude. However, the majority of the Committee does not consider that the solution is not to establish another full-time state investment company, at least not at this stage, and at least not as such. The Committee is aware that there is a process in place to evaluate Investinor AS and sees it as natural that we are waiting to see what comes out of it. Nevertheless, the Committee welcomes and agrees that it may be appropriate to amend the device and the mandate of Investinor AS. And as I see it, there is probably also a cross-political consensus that something needs to be changed and done. In the work on this proposal, the Committee has opened up what I call written consultation, that we actively went out and opened up for recording. Nevertheless, there was only one written recording. It was from NORSKOG, which is a member organisation for forest owners. In short, they did not support the proposal. They believe that the challenges to be addressed should be able to be addressed by existing entities, such as: Investinor and Innovation Norway. The Committee is aware that the government is developing a strategy for the bioeconomy and a green competitiveness strategy and the green shift. Furthermore, we know that the government is also engaged in a major report on the industry in Norway. Many of the issues raised by the proposers and raised by others, it is natural to include them in this work, as I have understood that the Minister for Industry and the Minister for Fisheries have confirmed. As the rapporteur, I would otherwise like to commend the rapporteurs for the initiative to raise the debate. If there is something I personally am also concerned about, it is that more risk capital is being allocated to innovative companies, and usually in combination with private and public risk capital. I would also like to add that there is a great deal going on in this area through other specialist committees, namely the Finance Committee of the Grand Duchy, where a majority has decided that the oil fund should be given a better environmental profile. I believe to remember that it was last year that the Left and Christian People's Party supported the government's proposal to increase the so-called environmental mandates from approx. Between 20 and 30 B.C.E. kr to approx. 30 to 50 B.C.E. kr, i.e. a double. So the environmental investments of the Oil Fund are not entirely insignificant. Finally, I would also like to remind you of the relatively fresh budgetary agreement between the Right, the Progressive Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, which agreed to prepare and investigate the establishment of a company called Renewable AS, i.e. a green investment fund which, together with private individuals, will be able to invest in companies that develop and use green technologies, including renewable energy, hydrogen, energy storage, low climate transport, reduction, removal, transport and storage of CO2, energy efficient industrial processes, and which are designed to provide the company with market returns over time. This was given to the majority here in Stortinget, and the government has been given the task of assessing how such a company can and should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2052	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for a thorough treatment. The working party agrees with the proposers that Norway should take a leading position in the field of bioeconomy and in the development of green carbon. This weekend, a historic climate agreement was concluded in Paris. The agreement underlines the importance of focusing on the development of climate technology in the future, and through industrial policy we must ensure a good framework for this. The working party prioritises instruments that will help to develop our business and industry in a green direction, including: We will strengthen the eco-technology system by 1 billion. Over four years, and in this year's alternative budget, we have also proposed a separate bioeconomy contribution of 125 million. kr. We are surprised that the government has phased out schemes that would build up under the development of new solutions to make greater use of biomass in the development of the economy, such as the removal of the energy fission scheme in the budget for 2014 or the proposal to remove the three-based innovation programme in the budget of the year. In the government’s non-profit world, this is left to the market and to general arrangements. We also ask questions about what is going on to get us into the green shift. At present, there are many processes that are relevant to the proposal we are now considering. The government has started a process of evaluating Investinor, in line with the signals given in the ownership message. I am pleased that there is an overall committee that now believes it might be appropriate to change the device and the mandate of the Investinor. The 500 million. kr earmarked for investments in the forest sector has been used to a small extent. The government is also working on two other important issues that the Stortinget has asked for, an industrial impact report and a bioeconomy strategy. In both of these cases, we expect access to risk capital for business to be one of the important issues. In addition, in the budget agreement in Stortinget, a request decision was taken in the context of the revised national budget to investigate the establishment of the Renewable AS Fund, an investigation supported by the Workers' Party. As I have pointed out, many processes are in progress, and there are also a number of different instruments and programmes already in place through the State's industrial policy instrument. The applicator is very fragmented and not transparent, and we are also uncertain whether the various instruments build up under the necessary green transition in business. The Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party therefore have their own proposal in which we ask the government to identify and present a comprehensive overview of how the government can contribute financially to the development and commercialisation of new technologies. The working party believes that Investinor can play an important role in this context. In the vote, we therefore reiterate the proposal that the government should look at how Investinor can contribute to the development of new technology companies based on the green carbon, also on the owner's side. In the budget position of the Liaison Committee, a majority of the Committee was concerned with the role of Investinor and indicated that there are most likely to be good opportunities in existing industry to restructure activities or develop new business areas meeting current requirements. The majority also considered that, pending an overall review of the investor, the company should be allowed to invest in mature enterprises in the forest sector. We therefore expect the government to take a closer look at this. There is an urgent need to put in place good framework conditions and overall arrangements for those who are committed to green technology development. With that, I address the proposals that the Workers' Party is involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2071	The representative of Odd Omland has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2074	We need technology development in many areas. For this reason, the Right has put a heavy emphasis on research and innovation policy, which the Left and the Christian People's Party have followed very closely in the budgets over the last few years. The environmental technology system has increased considerably in recent years and is more than double since the Stoltenberg II government. In the Right we believe that Norway has good intentions to strengthen the existing competitiveness and environmental and climate solutions in the industry. Many enterprises and environments of competence are already world-leading. The bioeconomy is also seen as a potential for Norwegian industry. Within the blue bioeconomy there are several internationally competitive enterprises and the knowledge environment, and the Borregaard enterprise is a good example of a bioeconomy that has achieved success before the green bioeconomy. One of the challenges for the company is costs. As a result, companies import a lot of timber from Sweden. I believe that the purpose of the new green investment company is to exploit Norwegian forests. If we're to get it done, we need it, for example. investment in infrastructure, research and framework conditions for the forestry industry, as the government foresees. It is particularly important for the Right that future industries are based on profitability and private value creation. Industries and technologies dependent on public support for operations are not resilient over time. Then it is that the company that has been proposed here has a very limited mandate, for which the case-speaker did well. Green carbon is only referred to as raw material, including, but not limited to, competitive returns. With the low oil price we now have, it is very demanding to get a product based on green carbon to be economically competitive measured against a product based on black carbon. This means that such a company is a high-risk investment. It will also be imperative to find interesting companies to invest in with the terms and conditions of the Doc. The 8th proposal. When it comes to the three proposals from the minority, there is a lot in the intentions of the proposals that the government is already looking at. This year's budget agreement, between the Government Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, means that we are already fulfilling part of the objective of this Document 8 proposal. For the Right, it is particularly important that the government in its work on the bioeconomy strategy and green competitiveness strategies and the assessments resulting from the budgetary agreement on renewables AS also point to challenges and opportunities when it comes to financing and equity. For the Right, it is important that it is the best environment, the best enterprises and the best ideas that come to light in the competition for state investment. It is quite striking that the Centerpartiet will now have an investment company and create a new business for Norwegian forests. Not long ago, they were in government and led a policy that led to the deforestation of industrial enterprises using Norwegian forests. Example here are Follum factories, Tofte Industries and not least the biofuel company Uniol in Fredrikstad. Norwegian forest has lost a lot of competitiveness, not least in the years of red-green governance. Former Minister of Agriculture Johan C. Løken had a rule of thumb that says that we in Norway have a third of the forest capital compared to Sweden, but only one tenth of the forest logging compared to Sweden. And we have only one-third of the level of investment in relation to forestry in Sweden. It shows that there is a potential for Norwegian forests if we are competitive. The challenge is that the forest industry has high Norwegian costs, Norwegian taxes, Norwegian taxes and Norwegian regulations, while the price is internationally determined in an open market. It is also about strengthening Norwegian competitiveness, for which the Right has been called upon in opposition, and which we now, with this government, are well in the process of realizing. Finally, I would like to say that for the Right, it is important that we support the two-degree goal, but public resource use needs to be targeted, so that we also think about diet-benefits in this achievement and what we get left to achieve these two-degree targets. That the Right will further develop and pass on the instruments related to environmental and climate technologies, there should be no doubt in any case. It shows the last budget for the last year. But if we are to succeed, we must focus on cost-effectiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2095	This is an appropriate case to discuss right after the good agreement that came into the port of Paris, because when one refers to the two-degree goal, it is almost tempting to refer to the ‘semi-level goal’ or at least to the ambition to come down against it. I am pleased that it is such a coherent committee that points out that it is essential to develop new technologies, and that optimism is there, both in order to solve the climate challenges by developing new technologies, and in order to take our share of the enormous value creation that can come in these different fields. The success of good arrangements ensuring assistance through the development of the commercialisation phase, which is demanding for companies, whether in other areas or in this area to which the proposal of the Central Party relates, is important. I'll give a big tribute to the Center Party for the proposal, considering both the theme and the angle in terms of investment companies and green carbon. I also think it's important to succeed in the bioeconomy, and that it's important to succeed in using the green carbons and exploiting the potential that lies there, because it's really huge. What one can do with green carbons, is always fascinating and surprising to many when one goes into it, and that it's going to replace the black carbons, there's no doubt about it. The Christian People's Party, like the representative of Omland, supports the proposal on a comprehensive review of the overall instruments of investment and support schemes in order to be able to contribute in the best possible way through development and commercialisation. We record that it is a postponement of the strategy for the bioeconomy, but it comes to spring, and from the Christian People's Party it is important to stress that the most important thing in this context is that it becomes a good strategy, so we understand that it will come to spring. It also applies to the other notifications to which the rapporteur referred, that there are many processes being carried out. Finally, like others here, I would like to point out that you have had a good fill-up of the Climate and Energy Fund, which will be up to 62.5 billion. kr. I would like to point out the establishment of Renewable AS, which is to have a broader mandate, but which can contribute. I would also like to point to the creation of a separate seed fund, through the budget agreement that was concluded this year. All of this helps to make capital available, but I would like to stress that the proposal of the Centre Party, which points to the potential of green carbon, must not be forgotten. Should a clear person succeed – if there is a common goal to it – in that area, I think one must have a summit of some of the instruments. But in this area, we want a broader and more comprehensive review, and we have great expectations of the strategy to come into this area, and therefore we are voting in favour of the proposal to which it was referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2110	The theme is to reduce the supply of CO2 from fossil sources, while maintaining value creation and well-being in Norway. So it's processing raw materials and strengthening the real economy in Norway. As others have pointed out, this goes to the heart of the debate on the climate-friendly transformation of our business. To define it a little bit: the climate-friendly transition is, first of all, to reduce the total energy and materials consumption, that is, to be more economical. Secondly, what we then need from energy and carbon is going to be renewable. That's the Center Party definition of the green shift. It's important that we distinguish energy from carbon. Energy is something different and less than carbon, because carbon can be both energy and a building material. So we're talking about carbon. We're talking about the renewable carbon, which has its base in the cod, in the thymotium and in the pomegranate, to say it popular. The proposal concerns the profitability of the use of green carbon. It's a fact that it's more expensive to produce and process green carbon for the products we need than to harvest and process black carbon. It's a fact. So we're facing a big change in business. In our tradition, all major industrial poker, which has brought Norway forward, has been an interaction between private capital, public effort, framework conditions and a strong trade movement. That's something we have to take with us. The last thing we did in that area was on shipping. Shipping got competitive conditions, as it's called in that industry, and it helped us get a lift throughout the shipping cluster, which everyone has famed afterwards. In the case of bio, Norway loses terrain. We're losing terrain in all areas, which we shouldn't. Therefore, the Green Investment Company proposal for the development of green carbon technologies is promoted. So it's about helping private companies, and I stress it, can be established – because today they are not established – and become more profitable through a contribution from the company. And the contribution should be two things: long-term risk loan capital and, if necessary, equity to the company. So we're not talking about grants. Grants have been provided through the Eco-Technology Grant Scheme, so it is a separate matter. The concrete proposal is therefore to invest in companies that take a leading and strategic role in the development of new green carbon-based solutions and technologies. It shall give rise to the implementation of the development work. It shall invest in establishments that can generate competitive returns in a long-term perspective. A significant capital is needed – 10 billion. kr is suggested for the first time – and the investment company shall be able to enter the enterprises by between one third and 50 pst. ownership. Enterprises shall have technology development and commercialisation of new products for their purpose. For many years we have been discussing the transition of Norwegian business – recently we have really discussed the transition of business – at an abstract level. Then there will be a proposal that is quite concrete – and that is too concrete. It's too concrete. It is quite special that a proposal can become too concrete. The proposal is concrete in that it is based on private business – changing the framework conditions of our best tradition. It will be exciting to see how things are going with other proposals. I hope they come, and we'll take the discussion further from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2126	Is the representative of Per Olaf Lundteigen to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2129	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2134	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg has then taken up the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2138	I want to start by thanking the case rapporteur for a job well done. The Committee is also behind the large sections of the text. Left rates of innovative environmental and climate-friendly business. That is why we are pleased that we have contributed to a far greener budget through the 2016 budget agreement – far greener than the government proposed. Although we in the Left would like to go even further, we are now being strengthened the mechanisms that contribute to technological development and that ensure access to risk capital for large, innovative and green projects in the business world. It is important to have mechanisms that ensure adequate support beyond the development phase. Much of the problem today is that many economic operators have relatively easily supported technology and product development – relatively easily, I say – but the burden of getting new solutions to the market is not supported. The left will use the State instrument to promote green, growth-intensive enterprises. This task must be subject to changes in terms of mandates and tasks, inter alia: Innovation Norway, Siva and Argentum, as part of the work on the green shift. Today, these three companies invest large sums on behalf of the Norwegian state in Norwegian business. Common to all is that there is too little to stimulate green growth. For each crown Argentum invests in funds with environmental profile, SEK 10 is invested in funds related to fossils. Several Western companies have already used their highly skilled workforce in the region to convert to innovative green technology solutions and products. This is very pleasing, and we need to ensure that more companies participate and contribute to this green transition. Therefore, such innovative enterprises need to have more of them to create new jobs and to increase Norwegian competitiveness. With regard to the proposal to be taken into consideration today, I share the motivations of the proposers and the idea behind the award-winning initiative. When we do not support Amendment No 1, tabled by the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, it is because we now need measures more than screening. In the Left's alternative state budget, there are concrete initiatives for actions that could, in a short time, contribute financially to the development and commercialisation of new technologies. Such a measure proposed the creation of an additional seed fund of 200 million. kr, to be earmarked for the bioeconomy. Such projects, such actions, we will continue to work on getting in place. Such a measure would be concrete and effective for the development and commercialisation of green technologies. We don't need more mapping and presentations. We need concrete action. As regards proposal No: 2, from the Labour Party, I think that the reality, through the budget agreement, has obtained this proposal. I refer to the creation of Renewable AS – which several, including the rapporteur, have already discussed – where exactly state and private funds are going to play together to develop and use green technology. As stated in the budget agreement: ‘The government asks the government to assess how such a company can be operated in terms of investment mandate, organisation, budgeting and whether it will affect this type of investment in the light of existing instruments, as well as whether such investments should be limited to Norway or have a global mandate, and come back to the revised national budget in 2016.’ – i.e. already in the spring – ‘It is aimed at ensuring that the fund receives 20 billion administrative capital over time. krones. ‘... I have great expectations for this. And that's why the Workers' Party's proposal is in practice realised through the Left's impact on the creation of Renewable AS.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2165	I have a great sense of the proposal from the Center Party. We are in many ways on the threshold of a whole new industrial era in Norway, whether we want it or not. New technology, especially digitisation, is now changing the whole foundation of all the ideas and thoughts we had just ten years ago about how industrial processes are going. It's going to affect everything. It affects the fishing industry, the forest industry, the process industry – all parts of what we call industry. There is in this image a must read the proposal from the Center Party. In Norway – unlike in the more industrialised countries in our neighbourhood – there is a standstill. Where Germany has launched major national strategies in the industrial field several years ago, this will now be announced to spring in Norway. We'll see what's coming – whether it's concrete or if there's a lot of distribution. In the bioeconomy field — in the use of wood, fish and other renewable resources — much is happening internationally. Here in Norway we have had some strategies, but there has been no plan. If Norway is to be closed, we have to make a transformation from primarily being a commodity supplier to developing Norway into an industrial nation in the new image. We're a little country. That means we're totally dependent on bigger common bets. This is where the Right Party government consistently and systematically misunderstands, where they believe that Norway can do just as much as the bigger economies can. We're a little economy. We need to pull the load. We have a tool tool that's too spread, too wide and too unwieldy for the actors who use it. That's what we get to the right of all of them. The various tools are established with different types of foundation at different times, perhaps with out-of-date bets. Maybe these are bets that should have our renewal, should have our gatherings, etc. There is a weakness in the proposal for the Centre Party – this builds on the top of a crest of tools. But I believe that there is not enough reason to say that we should not act. The instrumentation of Norway is also weighted by today's government. It has been pointed out many times that regional development funds have been brought down enormously for incomprehensible reasons. It has been evaluated, and has been a success. Innovation Norway will be centralized. It is reported that a lot of the bets that have been in state are much harder to finance now. It has also been cut in the more specific bets – on the marine, on the tile, etc., with the foundation of industry neutrality, but it does not apply to oil. There's got to be a special bet. If we're going to build the new economy, we just need to think about the tools we have in Norway, but there's no superimposed plan. There is no central government strategy in this area. Thus we continued to spread, wide and – with this government – drift into the future, at a time when we should have our offensive. Where we have all the possibilities of being offensive, you fall into the future without knowing what one will. A sells out in Norway. One sells to companies in Norway and buys up abroad. For every company a company in Norway, the money goes into the state pension fund abroad, and then we buy something abroad. Norway is doomed to own something, but we choose not to own anything here. One prefers to own something in London or other places. There are several challenges to the proposal, as I see it. Maybe the capital part is the most interesting part here. Risk capital I think we should have our own arrangements on. Maybe this could have been a company with a stake only in equity. I support the proposal of the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party for a complete review. I do not support the Investinor proposal, because what I believe is part of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox But I have come to the conclusion that we support the proposal of the Center Party for the establishment of an investment company.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2186	The overall objective of this government is to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement for global warming. To achieve that goal, we need technology development and transformations in many areas. In Report. St. 13 for 2014-2015, New 2030 Emissions Commitment – a joint solution with the EU, announced to the government five priority climate policy areas: reduced emissions in transport development of low-emission technologies in industry and clean production technologies environmentally friendly shipping CO2 management strengthen Norway's role as a renewable energy supplier The most recent report mentions the development of advanced biofuels. The government is taking this up, among other things. through a bioeconomy strategy presented in spring 2016. We are also working on a growth report on industrial policy. On the government side, we are also working on a broader and broader strategy for greening competitiveness and greening shifts. In recent years, we have increased the appropriations allocated to the instrument to develop climate and environmental technologies and to ensure that new solutions are found to the markets. In the 2016 government budget, the government is further investing in state risk capital to develop new climate and environmental technologies. In particular, I would like to highlight the following initiatives: The capital of the Climate and Energy Fund will increase to 67.75 billion. kr in 2016, instead of 50 bn. kr, which was the ambition of the climate agreement. The Government has strengthened the Eco-Technology Scheme and, under the budgetary agreement with the Cooperation Parties, it has more than tripled compared to the last draft budget of the Stoltenberg II Government and is now 504.5 million. kr for next year. Priority must be given to the best and most promising climate and environmental projects. This is important both from a climate perspective and from a business perspective. Finding Norwegian solutions on international markets will be important both for Norwegian jobs and to help address global climate challenges. I am therefore pleased that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy emphasises that green investment should also have a commercial objective. The Government, through the budgetary agreement with the Cooperation Parties, has agreed to investigate and prepare the establishment of Renewable AS, «Greenfund». The Fund, together with private investors, shall be able to invest in companies that develop and use green technology, including, for example: renewable energy, hydrogen, energy storage, low-carbon transport solutions, reduction, removal, transport and storage of CO2 and energy-efficient industrial processes. The company should be set up in such a way that it is expected to generate a market return over time. The government will return to this company in the revised national budget for 2016. The intention behind the proposed investment company could also be covered by this renewable fund. However, the effort to develop technology and to support investment is not enough. We must work in parallel with instruments that stimulate technological development and instruments that stimulate markets. Other measures such as: the appropriate carbon pricing will be a very important part of the solution, so that the polluter pays and conducts its activities accordingly. I believe in both positive and negative instruments to promote transition towards a greener and more profitable business. Climate is our time's most important challenge. The government has taken the consequences of this, through, among other things. strengthening the instruments for the development of environmental and climate technologies in 2016. But we're not on target. We're going to prepare and evaluate a green investment fund. In addition, we will come back with further measures, including: through the work on the Green Competitiveness Strategy and the Green Shift and in future budget proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2237	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2240	In the class struggle today, we see that the industry represented by Norwegian Industry and Abelia believes that the climate agreement concluded in Paris will accelerate the process and distort Norwegian industrial investment in a green direction. The same was true of the Council of State within its post. In the Workers' Party, we are committed to ensuring good framework conditions for Norwegian industry and look forward to the government coming to Stortinget with an industrial message. The bioeconomy strategy with which the government works also becomes important. The question is then: how will these matters be coordinated, and when can we expect the industry message to come to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2247	As regards the bioeconomy strategy, work is carried out by the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries together with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. It's good to go. We're a little late, but there's a strategy spring 2016, hopefully early spring. In the context of the work on a major communication on industrial policy, work has just started. We're going to be working through 2016 and we're going to hopefully be able to present it to Stortinget by the end of 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2254	The council says that more money has been allocated – and that is good. But the point from the Center Party is that we think too small. The processing of renewable natural resources is losing ground, while there are great opportunities. What is also strong to experience is that the Council of State letter of 2 June 2015 states that the proposal focuses only on green carbon. Yes, that's right, because it distinguishes between energy and carbon. But then the Council of State says that the proposal only goes on one kind of technology. It's a cardinal misunderstanding. Does the Council of State, having seen the debate now, understand that the proposal does not go on one type of technology, but does it go on green carbon as opposed to renewable energy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2259	Firstly, I disagree with the representative's description of losing terrain. There's amazing things going on. Hydro’s pilot plant is one example. We know that applications for the eco-innovation scheme are increasing. That is why we have strengthened it every year. We know that there are many great projects, and we know that the industry is going ahead. New technologies are being invested and developed all the time, and I'm absolutely sure that industry is part of the solution, and not part of the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2264	What's happening on Hydro is very good. But what we're talking about here is carbon. There's two types of carbon. It's fossil carbon, and it's renewable carbon, which we define as green carbon. One of the largest sources of renewable carbon is the lumberstock. If the Council of State doesn't see that we're losing ground on the processing of the timber in Norway, then we're living in each of our realities. The centre party sees that we are losing ground by sending more and more timber out of the country unprocessed – a development that we could counter if we laid down the necessary framework conditions so that private investors could invest in modern timber processing plants, for example in Norway. That is what is at the heart of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2269	My point of losing the terrain was linked to a much wider concept than the one the representative has used. With regard to the logging, there is no doubt that it has been very challenging and obviously not taken as purpose for very many of its part was. That is why we are now looking at the mandate of the Investinor. We also make a biostrategy to look at how they can take advantage of our benefits in these areas and create values and jobs. But there must be a bottom line that it is a market, that it is profitable and that profits are created, and not industry that is to live on subsidies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2275	As can be seen from the proposal, it is precisely at the heart of helping to make investments profitable by changing the framework conditions. As stated in the setting of the Committee: ‘The Committee considers that green investment conversion is important in the green shift in Norway, if they are profitable.’ That's what we're about to do. We're going to get that profitability, as one did in the shipping industry. It is then quite special that the Council of State says in its letter to us that she is “sceptical about whether it is realistic to set up a completely commercial company with long-term competitive returns as its goal”. Does the Council of State really think that one cannot contribute with state loan capital and equity together with private capital and get to profitable companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2285	Well, I think that's possible, but it's been very difficult. It is not that we lack instruments. We have a number of instruments, including: through Investinor and to the extent Argentum as well. If the best projects were the projects the representative refers to, yes, they would be invested in, and they would give the return. So far it's been very difficult. And then I'm very open that we have to look at other devices, and we've now received a mission from the Stortinget that we're going to deliver on in revision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2290	Many people have pointed out that the machine tool we have today is too wide, too wide, too wide, too small and too incomprehensible for the actors themselves, and has nothing in common, overarching strategy. It's been made at different times through history and then picked up a little bit here and there. All in all, in the new situation we are today, the machine tool is simply too heavy. Does the minister think it would be wise to have a greater review of the whole tool, or does the minister think that the only dangerous road is small adjustments here and there?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2297	One of the things we have started is a review of the instruments. I am concerned about the impact we have, the results we have, and the instruments that create innovation, jobs and employment. I am now awaiting a final report from a very thorough review of Innovation Norway's instruments. Then we also have to look at what overlaps you have with other instruments, and how we can simplify and improve them. It is about being available to the customer and the user, digitising and reducing the processing time. All of this continues to work with both the Research Council, Innovation Norway and Siva. They also work together to see how they can avoid overlaps. So there's a great deal of need for both a review and for simpler and better offers to users.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2304	I fully support simplification. What has been part of the criticism is that it has been too difficult. The second has been that there have been just too many spreads across many different areas with different types of foundation and little adaptation to the challenges we now have post Paris, to put it that way. In the proposal here, it seems that what has been the leaping point of the government party has been owned. Should the state enter with capital that allows one to own? That has been a problem. One might be involved in taking risks, but owning it, it's hard. Can the Minister answer me about that ambivalence? We don't have a problem with owning abroad, but the government has a lot of problems with owning in Norway. This means that when you've sold out, for example: feed company in Norway, the money is transferred to e.g. to purchase property abroad. What is the logic? Why is it so problematic to own something in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2311	Two things: first, we have very, very many arrangements, very many small and delimited, thematic and geographical. We've been accused of changing them because we want to be business neutral. That's not right at all. It's about having broad, good programs that invite in all good ideas, no matter where you live in the country. The instruments we think work; they hit, and they create jobs and growth. That's what we want to achieve. It is both about simplifying and improving the programmes. In the case of ownership, Norway is the largest owner of the holding in Norway. We're going to be in the foreseeable future, I think, no matter what government. But we probably disagree about the degree of ownership, and that's why we were also treated with a ownership message earlier this year, where some adjustments were made to it. I do not feel that has been the main debate on the issue of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2318	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2323	The representative, Lundtigen, has well explained what is the central party's position in this matter. The «green shift» has been referred to the new word of the year. The green shift definitely needs to be filled with content. If it doesn't happen, it can be the greatest enemy of the environment. The center party believes that part of the solution lies in the forest, and that one needs a rotation and a thought that goes from black to green carbon. Bioeconomy is a word that is suitable for festivities. Now it needs to be clarified, for the benefit of the climate and for the benefit of value creation. Then we have to recognise that in the instrument we have today, there is a need to repair the arrangements we have, but new and stronger instruments are also needed to take the promises of building new industry. So I also see some positive features in this that provide the basis for being cautiously optimistic. This evaluation of Investinor should be completed soon. I register a willingness in the Committee to look at the mandate of the Investinor, for an investment company that does not invest is not an effective instrument. I also believe that there are positive thoughts behind this project that have been named Renewable AS. Then it's my hope that it's not a "Good Purpose AS" that lies here. It's a very wide description that's given, and as I understand it, renewable AS should be strictly capable of investing in everything from green shampoo to windmills. So that we get a concreteization of that, and that also elements of what the Central Party has presented in this proposal, can be involved in the further work on Renewable AS, I hope the Council of State will notice. I also hope that the Council of State will look at the formulations behind it, because it is an commitment to a conversion. I also believe that you can – between the lines, at least – read a willingness to make changes. As far as voting is concerned, the Centre Party will substantially support the proposals No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2340	When we use this term green carbon, it applies both to what is life in the sea and to what is life on land. That's the cod, that's the sej, that's the hish, that's all the fish we have that we can process in different ways and get us the necessary, forward-looking, environmentally friendly products of. It's about the thymotium, it's about the clover, it's about the swing, it's about the fir, it's about the pine, it's about the bear – something as practical as that. That's what we're talking about. There's a lot of money for research and pilots. But what's the challenge, as business tells me, is commercialization, producing and converting. It's getting from a pilot to an ordinary business. There's a lot of talk about strategies. For me, the strategy is to establish a common understanding of the situation, and the common understanding that we in the Center Party have of the situation is that today the profitability of processing black carbon is much greater than that of processing green carbon. It makes sense, for black carbon has only harvest costs and processing costs, while green carbon has a longer way to go and is much more extensive in its volume, for example. In other words, one has to change the economy in order to make it economically viable for private business managers to produce green carbon products instead of – as today – responding. That's the core of it all. In particular, the Left, who talks about green growth and says that a need for concrete proposals, did not comment on the proposals of the Centre Party. The proposal of the centre party should be a fulfillment of what the left asked for, but we got no comment on it. The era we're facing, on which the representative Knag Fylkesnes was in, is a new industrial era where one can not least get a number of chemical products from this green carbon. The plastic contained in cars, which is currently based on oil, gas and coal, can be easily produced from renewable carbon, but it is more expensive. It is more expensive not least in the short term. Then we have to organize the economy for it, and the most important thing then is that the industrial process can be facilitated by the fact that the private investors who want to enter this new era get the state involved and see that the state is involved, and thus also that the state takes risk and responsibility. There will also be more private ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2353	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2359	The Stortinget is then ready to vote on the agenda no. Thirty-three.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2367	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-6, by Eirik Sivertsen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, 7-9, by Mr Nordlund, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 10, by Abid Q. Raja on behalf of the Left Proposal No. 11-14, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11-14, from SV. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a halt in the purchase of land to the E18 Lysaker–Ramstadsletta, as well as for the planning of extension of road capacity in the corridor.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The decrease authorises the government to increase its toll revenue by up to 6 billion. crowns to provide room for the introduction of anti-rust time charges, environmentally differentiated toll rates and to reduce car traffic in, around and between major urban areas in Norway, as well as to finance public transport, bicycle and walking investments and adopted road investments.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the planning of a third runway on the Gardermoen is stopped.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set a target for a reduction in the share of heavily local-polluting cars and asks the government to come back with measures to achieve this by submitting a revised national budget in 2016.’ The Greens have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2417	There is a vote on proposal No. Ten from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that zero-emission technology is required by all new ferry offers and the purchase of national road ferry services from 1 January 2016.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2434	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Storting to file a case for a special grant scheme to stimulate the installation of fibre cables when new power cables are to be built abroad.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The voting boards showed that there were 7 votes in favour and 96 votes against the proposal of the Central Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 16.39.40]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2448	It is stated from the secretary's office that there is too much cancellation of voting. We have to take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2460	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to establish its own incentive system for the carriage of goods by sea in order to stimulate the transition of goods by road to sea and designed to provide an ‘ecobonus’ to transport buyers using maritime transport in given transport corridors.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2477	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a case for an action plan to improve intermodality in order to facilitate the transition of freight between road/railway and port.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2494	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for its own programme to upgrade bridges to a capacity of 60 tonnes in the context of the proposal for a new national transport plan.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2509	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to contribute to the establishment of a common solution for the Norwegian Vehicle Historical Museum and Norwegian Road Museum.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e2526	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2 and 4–6, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an incentive solution for other modes of transport, inspired by the NOx Fund, in order to reduce emissions.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a national TT system for users with special needs in proposals for a new national transport plan.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a new national transport plan to propose a scheme to ensure the provision of collective services in the district corresponding to the KID scheme.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to plan a dual-track capacity increase on Ofotrail so that it is possible to give priority to development funds in the National Transport Plan 2018-2029.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e3818	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e4501	Since your adoption, the President assumes that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party vote for the position during the rest of the framework area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e5766	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Odd Omland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Odd Omland on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 3, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to submit proposals for the establishment of a green investment company for the development of green carbon-based technology companies.» [[renewable]] The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e5795	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess how Investinor can contribute on the ownership side and/or develop new green carbon-based technology companies, and to make proposals for it in the notified industry communication, possibly at the latest in the revised national budget for 2016.’ The Green Party has announced its support for the proposal, and the Central Party has announced its subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e5812	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to identify and present an overall overview of the State’s financial contribution to the development and commercialisation of new technologies.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Green Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-15.ana.ud1468e5849	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
