ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e47	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Højres Storingsgruppe to the representative Eirik Milde from 29 January onwards and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Tage Pettersen, is invited to meet during the period of leave on 29 January, and Tone Damsleth, who has already been called up as an alternate, meets from 30 January until further notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e65	Taking Pettersen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e79	The Presidency of the Grand Duchy has put forward a position on the proposals for representatives tabled by Trine Skei Grande, Iselin Nybø and Abid Q. Raja to set up their own law department on the Stortinget. The Presidency considers it very important that the Administration of Storting should have legal competence to assist the representatives. Firstly, it is important that legislative proposals and constitutional proposals submitted are reviewed and quality assured by competent professional bodies, both in legal matters and in relation to the Basic Law and other legal provisions. The Presidency believes that this is already a good opportunity for such assistance. All legislative proposals – both those made by the government and those made by representatives or when dealing with a legislative matter in the committees – are reviewed by the Administration of the Stortinge, proofreading and quality assurance in the field of law. All draft constitutions are also reviewed before they are tabled. The representatives of the Grand Duchy also have the opportunity to contact the Constitutional Department of the Administration of Legal and Legal Assistance of the Grand Duchy, with questions about the design of legislative proposals and constitutional proposals prior to their submission. Secondly, it is important that representatives have the opportunity to address different legal issues. The representatives here today have the opportunity to ask the Swedish Research Department to address legal and other professional issues related to legal work. The Presidency also considers that there is a long practice for both the Storting and the Committees themselves to ask the Ministry of Trade and the Legal Service for legal and legal assistance in the field of legal work. The Committees may also ask the relevant Council of State on a matter for consideration by the Committee. The Presidency has pointed out on several occasions that it is of major importance for Storting’s legislative activities that the departments normally comply with requests from the committees and the party groups to provide legal assistance during the comitology of legislative proposals. The Presidency indicates that the Law Department also gives a variety of non-binding legislative opinions. Although the Department of Law is organised as a unit in a department, formally under the control and constitutional responsibility of the Council of State, it has been argued that the Department provides its legal professional judgements independently of the Department's political direction. The legal opinions of the Legal Service are therefore normally circulated in the department’s own name and signed by the Head of Mission of the Department. Traditionally, the Legal Department is perceived as a professionally independent body in such contexts. However, there have been individual cases and interpretation opinions from time to time in which questions have been raised about the independence of the legislative department from the government. This is particularly true in cases where the current government might be interested in a particular outcome, while the legal aspects of the case are difficult and give room for considerable interpretability. The Presidency points out that issues referred to in the Legal Service’s interpretative opinions will normally focus on legally unexplained areas where there is necessarily uncertainty about the outcome. The opinions reflect this by making a reservation in the case and stressing that the opinion is an assessment – not a phase. Any ‘alternative’ opinion of the Administration of the Stortinget could not help to eliminate such doubts, even if it is assumed that the competence and capacity of the Stortinget are at the level of the Law Department. Either two opinions are drawn in the same direction or two opinions are drawn in different directions, regardless of the task of the courts — and ultimately of the Supreme Court — to determine what is to be considered to be the law in force. It is therefore limited to what can be achieved with regard to increased predictability in complex legal areas by building up a wider legal environment in the Administration of the Grand Duchy. The Presidency also points out that the extent to which legal doubts should affect the assessment of whether or not a measure should be implemented is a political assessment – both in the government and in the Stortinget. In the opinion of the Presidency, in view of this, it is not desirable to build up a separate law department in the administration of Storting as an alternative to the government at its disposal. In Norwegian constitutional practice, the government is making the vast majority of legislative proposals, proposals for government budgets and other budget proposals. The government has therefore built up a comprehensive investigative system in the departments and underlying agencies, inter alia. in order to be able to fulfil the obligation under the Basic Law § 82 to communicate to the Storting all the information necessary for the handling of the matters which it submits. However, the Presidency will address the need to strengthen the general legal competence and capacity of the Administration of the Storting. The investigation will be based on the tasks and functions which the Presidency considers to be entrusted to the Storting – which has been reviewed above – in order to determine whether, and how, the legal competence and capacity of the administration should be strengthened. In the light of this, the Presidency will propose that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e109	I am pleased that the presidency will address the need to strengthen the legal competence of the administration, but it is quite clear that there is a real disagreement about whether there is a need to build a law department on the Stortinget. The proposal promoted by the Left is based on a proposal from the previous period, then promoted by representatives of the Progress Party, and the background is the great difference in the assistance given to the government by the Law Department, and what we, as depositors, can get here on the Storting. The vast majority of matters we deal with here come from the government and have been within the law department of the government apparatus, but it is true that one of the most important tasks that we, as deposit representatives and as a big one, have is to be legislative authority. We have a very great need for good and solid legal competence here in the house. As the situation is today, we in the Left believe that there is no equivalence between the legal assistance available to the government and what we have here on the Stortinget. We see the need for a law department to be built here as well. I therefore refer to the proposal from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e118	The representative Iselin Nybø has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e121	I think the proposal from the Left is very good, and that is natural. what the previous speaker had in mind, part of the history of it. I also think the intention of the presidency is good, that one wants to look further at the need to strengthen the investigation section. I think it's important not least on the basis of the principle of power distribution, because when the government makes legislative proposals here, they're based on the apparatus the government has access to, and the competence they have. If the Storting finds out that there is a need for more competence than what you have, where do you go? Then you go to the same device and ask for insights and assessments from them. In my opinion, it is at least sometimes a challenge. The other thing you can do, of course, is ask the Supreme Court for a consideration of a matter that is being worked on here. If I don't remember wrong, I think it happened twice after the war – in other words, not so often. I also believe that the Supreme Court does not necessarily have a strong desire to deal with the Law Department, although we can again invoke the principle of independence and the principle of power distribution. That is why I think the principle in the proposal to the Left is good. I believe that the presidency has probably done what they think they have to do, and has gone as far as they are comfortable to go, but it should not take away the reason and the basic elements, the principle approach, that lies in the proposal from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e128	I have to say that the attitude of the presidency follows up what, in my opinion, is a correct understanding of the principle of power distribution. When the proposers argue that there is a difference in the availability of resources, it also reflects the fact that government has different tasks in the distribution of power, and that means that the government is to comply with the investigative instructions, where both economic, administrative and not least legal conditions are to be clarified with regard to the principle of finalisation. I also think it is a shortcoming in the debate by the rapporteurs that they do not address the problem entirely. Is it the general quality, the background, that is, the question of making a proposal? I think it is excellent that the representatives start to reflect on the quality of their own proposals – that is excellent and can be transferred in several areas for the benefit of others – but if there is a right of the background that you are after, you can also contact the department, which then gives an apolitical opinion based on the law in force – or the party groups have the opportunity to hire people. For example, if you have a patent right, you go to one of the best law firms, which gives you an idea of patent law, or it is also possible to go to public bodies and ask for a background right. But where I know that the problem might be, if there is a special interpretation will. This could be done, for example, by: be – I take an example completely out of the air – in the issues of stability related to the former involvement of a State Council with a former employer. Then there may be political interest in the fact that the Department of Justice's law department comes or does not come to a conclusion, and so you have to doubt it, for more political reasons, by building up your own counter-expertise here. If that, perhaps contrary to intent, is the result, we have been in an unfortunate situation where there will be a magnificence lawyer against the government attorney. Then it might also press the Justice Department's law department more into a party lawyer role where it currently has a large and high status because its professionalism has not been doubted, and its independence from political leadership has not been called into question. That's a value we're going to have to keep going. If it is that a representative has a great interest in how the government has dealt with a question, the government is bound by the Administrative Act. So you can attack one of the administrative decisions through the review system that's in the administration. If that is not enough – if you are not satisfied after it – you have the opportunity to connect this to the court system, where by definition and according to the Constitution we have just recovered because we have been involved in reviewing it throughout 2014, you know that the courts are ultimately judging on the individual issue. This system has served our state with a good distribution of power between the government's investigative responsibility and the Stortinget, which adopts the general legal norms. And so, when there is a dispute about how to resolve the individual case, this principle can go to the top of an independent court, free of political leadership. That's how we want it. That's why I'm very pleased with the presidency's attitude, because it's just been conscious of this function distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e139	There are arguments on both sides on this issue, but SV has, after an assessment of the case, found that we want to support the Left's proposal in the Stortinget. Let me briefly say a little bit about the background for that. The government, as it should have, has extensive access to legal competence in the submission of cases. That is absolutely necessary, because the government is working on a number of legal issues and other issues where legal competence is necessary. Each department has legal competence, to varying degrees, which it applies to its field and its cases to ensure the quality of what is submitted to the Stortinget. In addition, there is access to the Law Department, which is useful in many cases, and as has been rightly said here, and as is stated in the documents, there is a very strong position and in all departments is perceived as independent and important. In certain types of cases, the Advocate General is also an appropriate official to refer to, because it is also useful in some contexts of legal assistance. The size has, as we all know, very close to the same approach to assistance. We have possibilities to get it in different ways. I've been involved myself, for example. by obtaining external expertise, asking for a distribution, etc. But my best understanding is that the quality of such work will increase if the Storting had its own law department that could do that kind of work for the individual party groups, for the collective or for the committees in matters that appear. Where I think it would be most relevant, it is in connection with proposals that are being made in the Storing of representatives or party groups, and that could thus be quality guaranteed in that way. Something else that could lead to this is that what is received by legal assistance is made available to everyone – it would be a transparent system for it – and that a to a lesser extent might go for advice from places where one is influenced by what devices one has, and who knows, but rather goes to a particular place after the same thinking as one has for the Law Department today. It's a place of authority, and one goes for it. I'm going to admit that in certain situations I see that there may be arguments against it, and perhaps especially that one gets a own legal environment in Stortinget. Nevertheless, I believe that the concern for a somewhat better balance and for the quality increase I believe it could give on the legal assistance, weigh more heavily. That is why we will support the proposal. Regardless of that, I would say – it may not be agreed here today – that it was important that the Presidency and others here at Stortinget continue to work on issues that I believe have been recognised by others and that may be important to follow in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e154	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e168	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e184	Joining everyone is a good goal for Norwegian society. This is also true in integration. We're not going to succeed in integrating immigrant women. The path to integration therefore goes through women, and it goes through work. Work gives you financial autonomy and enables you to make free choices. It is crucial to balance differences between women and men and between immigrants and the rest of the population. Norwegian Folkehelp has set the spotlight on this important topic at its 75th anniversary. In a collection of interviews entitled ‘Do you hire me?’ we meet several immigrant women with different positions in life. Common to all of them is that they want to have a job and a job to evolve in, like most of us. Norwegian Public Aid also reveals many of the challenges many immigrant women face. You have 67 pst. of all women in Norway working, the employment rate is significantly lower for migrant women. Why is that? Today, girls peak at the statistics on higher education, and many girls with immigrant background do very well. At the same time, SSB figures show that immigrants from Africa and Asia with higher education are about three times more often in a job they are overqualified for, than the rest of the population, while only one in ten, 11 pst., ethnic Norwegian workers are overqualified for the job they have. In addition, research shows that if you have a foreign - language name, you have 25 pst. less chance of being called for an interview. I agree with Secretary-General Life Drys in Public Aid, which says that Norway is wasting valuable skills and human capital when employers do not employ knowledgeable and highly qualified women. At the same time, it is worth repeating that the starting point for Norway in this area is also good compared to other countries. The employment of immigrant women in Norway is higher than that of Italian women in Italy. Registered unemployment among residents in Norway has risen from 6.5 p.p. in 2013 to 7.2 pst. in August of last year. In the rest of the population there was an increase from 2 pst. to 2.2 pst. during the same period. There are considerable differences in the unemployment rate between the various immigrant groups, and that is not so strange. Some come to Norway as work immigrants; others come to Norway as refugees. While the unemployment rate of immigrants from the Nordic countries is 3 p.m., the unemployment rate of immigrants from Africa is 14.1 p.m. That means that more than every seven immigrants from there are going out of work. These figures are from the Statistical Central Agency in November 2014, and they are alarming figures, and this must be met with both general and more targeted actions. It is important that those who come to Norway are met with an expectation of participation in the labour market. Unfortunately, the government does not. In the government statement, on page 8, we can read that the government will follow up the ‘Brochmann Committee’s recommendations on the conversion of social benefits from cash benefits to services’, while on page 12 of the government statement it says that it will extend the cash support ‘to include two-year-olds’, and we know that the government has increased the cash support. I therefore ask the Council of State to answer whether she will have a specific look at how this affects the participation of migrant women in work. The Labour Party believes that a good childcare provision, reduced kindergarten prices and free core time in kindergarten and SFO are better offers for families with children than continuing cash support, at least if we base our work line and a desire for successful integration. The SFO must become a natural choice for immigrant children as for ethnic Norwegian children. Universal welfare and knowledge systems have been crucial to reducing social disparities in Norway. It is also important to include the immigrant population. Then the universal arrangements must be complemented by more targeted measures. The Red-Green Government presented in 2013 the Action Plan We need the skills of immigrants. I hope that the action plan will continue to work, and that the Council of State can say something about how the government follows it up. It is important to work in the long term to increase employment with women who are far from the labour market and who are in need of qualification and who are not covered by other schemes. The New Chance Test System started in 2005 and has since become part of Job Opportunities. After several years of targeted work, Job is now in the process of qualifying more immigrant women with low skills into the labour market. In 2013, three out of five immigrant women without work who then completed Job Show went to work or education. There was an increase of 8 percentage points from the previous year. The Labour Party believes these are important measures on which we need to build. I would like the Council of State to explain the position of today's government in this work. Several long-term immigrants in Norway are in the periphery of the labour market, and they will need extensive assistance to overcome long-term employment and employment. It is important to take advantage of the favourable situation we still have in the Norwegian labour market to mobilise those immigrant women who are currently outside the labour market. Poor basic skills among non-Western immigrants mean that many of them are marginalised and have a long-term weak link with the labour market. In September last year, on behalf of the Directorate for Integration and Diversity, a report emphasised this fact. The most serious thing is that only a minority of those lacking basic qualifications receive the necessary reading, writing and billing training as part of the mandatory introduction programme after coming to Norway. The report also shows that there are wide variations in the provision of the introduction programme. In Oslo, only one in ten of those without primary education receive such training as part of the introduction programme. In Sunndal, nine out of ten receive this offer, and they are also at the top of the country when it comes to getting the participants into work or education after they have completed the introduction programme. Why are there so many differences between municipalities? – that is a fundamental question. As I read the Fafos report, the variation in use of primary education is about different understanding of the legislation. Researchers conclude that different assessments of who fits in with the offer, local priorities and, in part, a deliberate understatement of the offer create wide variations. The uncertainties relate to the assessment of basic qualification and whether full-time primary education can be considered as a fully-fledged introduction programme. One of four municipalities interprets the legislation in such a way that primary and secondary education cannot be regarded as a basic qualification and is part of an introductory course together with other measures. There is a clear need to clarify the legislation to the municipalities. Qualifications at primary level are an absolute minimum to take part in education or participation in Norwegian work. It is not good enough that the postal code of the municipality of residence is what determines whether you can qualify for participation as a newly arrived person in Norway, and it is often completely basic things like reading, writing and understanding letters that are the problem. I would therefore encourage the Council of State to respond to what she will do to reduce the inequalities in the offer and to ensure that the introduction training is more widely and more systematically ensuring that participants receive basic training when they are lacking. And then I would also appreciate it very much if the Council of State could share its reflections on the relationship between equality policy and successful integration work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e215	I'll try to answer some of the challenges in this post, and then we'll get back to the rest later in the debate. But first, I want to thank the interpellant for raising an important topic and question, and I fully agree with the interpellant in what she is addressing, namely that it is a challenge for both society and not least the individual that there is too low professional participation among groups of immigrant women. Therefore, it is an objective of the government to increase the proportion of immigrant women participating in the labour market. We know that the best prerequisite for freedom, equality and equality is to be self-sufficient and have your own income. Work is also essential to combat poverty and to raise the standard of living, quality of life and self-respect of individuals. As the interpellant writes in the interpellant: «Work is a key to integration». And I want to start by saying that I have great hopes for the next generations born in Norway, for figures from 2013 show that 34 pst. of the girls taking education at university or college, and 27 pst. By the boys do the same thing. In the rest of the population, the corresponding figure is 26 pst. for the girls and 18 pst. for the boys. Work is one of the keys to integration, but language is the key to work. Good Norwegian skills will in most cases be a prerequisite for getting a job. We therefore need to invest in good quality Norwegian training in order to get more immigrant women into work. The introduction programme and training in Norwegian and social skills are one of our most important actions for newly arrived immigrants. I am working on proposals that strengthen the requirements of Norwegian education, and the municipalities are going to take the initiative to start training in Norwegian and social literacy, and there can only be exemptions from social education if the individual has knowledge of Norwegian society. Training in social knowledge is important to gain a basic knowledge of the central laws and values of our society. This applies not least to women's rights and children's rights. Many municipalities are doing a good job with the introduction system, and this week I have been visiting the municipality of Karmøy. They have had very good results in recent years and received last year's prize as the IMDI West's introduction programme municipality. What the municipality does so well can be said very simply: they see the individual, its strengths and weaknesses. The individual needs are the starting point for the qualification provided by the municipality. Good monitoring of individual immigrants and individual plans is important for the success of the introduction system. The municipality also tells us that they are constantly working with quality in Norwegian training. They have closely followed up the individual participants in the introduction programme, and they have good cooperation between adult training and Nav, with neighbouring municipalities, with volunteers and with private individuals. The rapporteurs, whom I have met this autumn, have said that it is important that we work closely together, that there is flexibility in the introduction system, that we should perhaps look at whether it should be more professional, because some learn easier by having vocational training, and that there is more flexibility in the introduction system. I see that the municipalities that succeed with the introduction program are also able to get women to work. However, there are too many differences in the performance of women and men, and there are too many differences between municipalities. It is therefore important that municipalities try to look at each other and learn from those who do a good job. It's a work that I want to intensify in the future. I am now embarking on a wider evaluation of the introduction system and training in Norwegian and social knowledge, and I will use that evaluation to get the impression of how the government can develop and strengthen the mechanisms for the qualification of newly arrived refugees and immigrants. I am concerned about those women who are not covered by the introduction system and who need qualification. We in the government are now assessing whether more groups than today will receive an offer to participate in the introduction programme. For women without rights to the introduction program or systems in Nav, Jobjessen may be an opportunity. It is inspiring to meet women who have been part of Job and who take hold of their lives and show that it is useful. It tells me that the most important thing for them is economic autonomy and being good role models for their children. The government will therefore continue to work on Jobjesen and further develop this offer. In order to achieve good integration work in the municipalities, we need to cooperate with all the good forces. Administrations cannot achieve good integration alone. Volunteering has a very central role and makes a good effort. It concerns organisations such as Red Cross, Norwegian Public Aid, MiRA Centre and LIN, Equality, Inclusion and Networking. They run a business that is important to continue working with. I visited the Old Oslo district this week and saw the work that Norwegian People's Aid does with the integration programme OASEN, including. the obligation of activity put into free core time now, where more parents, especially women, can actually be found, who have been in Norway for a long time without learning as much Norwegian as they need in order to get out of work. Seeing e.g. a woman from Lebanon, who has been in Norway for 19 years, now sits on the school bench and learns Norwegian shows that the duty of activity that we have put in place is beneficial. I am also working on a new gender equality message. In it, we will discuss important issues that will further gender equality in areas with specific challenges. The theme that interpellant here addresses will be an important part of gender equality. The government will also develop a new and comprehensive policy for adults who are at risk of falling outside, or who are outside the labour market, due to lack of competence or weak basic skills. Through the communication on lifelong learning and exclusion, we will present a policy to help individuals acquire skills and basic skills as a basis for a stable and lasting relationship with the world of work. In this context, we will also look at the challenge of many having good education and skills with them from their home country, but it is often very difficult for them to get this approved and then to take advantage of that competence. The government is now working to speed up recognition systems, improve real competence assessment and offer updating skills, to ensure that the training provided by immigrants can also be used in Norway. The government aims to make Norway one of Europe’s most innovative countries. Measures to increase the number of immigrant women to set up their own activities may lead to increased employment and growth. In 2014, a new grant scheme was introduced whereby municipalities and county councils can seek support to strengthen and develop the regular offer of establishing training, so as to better facilitate the establishment of immigrant activities. At the request of Stortinget, which I am very pleased with, the Norwegian Multicultural Value Creation Centre of Buskerud County will be given a special role as a national competence centre in this sector. Many hundreds of entrepreneurs have implemented a programme of founders through the Drammen offer, and more than 150 of these have started with their own company. The proportion of women established has been 41 pst. Private and public enterprises may also apply for support for mentoring and training schemes. One of the supported actions is the Global Future of the NHO, which is a talent mobilisation of highly educated women and men with a migrant background. The goal is, among others: to include them in management and supervisory positions. A report from SINTEF shows that that programme has been a great success. The interpellant argued that it is a challenge to get qualified women with little or no education to have a lasting relationship with Norwegian employment. But it is also a major challenge for society that there are many highly skilled immigrant women who are not getting a job, who are not being called for an interview, or who need to find a job for which they are overqualified. As my party colleague Mazyar Keshvar says in the paper, dare you hire me? \t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Opening out the best minds is idiotic... The integration of immigrant women does not improve because they are thrown out of the application bench due to surname, gender and assumed background. Much of this is about prejudice, as the employer does not know the person or what he or she can and stands for.» I believe this is discrimination. The Code of Discrimination on ethnicity is enforced by the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the Equality Department. I am now working on a new common law on equality and discrimination, and in this respect I will also launch an investigation into the enforcement system, such as the one on the Internet. aims at providing the discriminated one with the possibility of retaliation without going to the courts. As it is today, there are no consequences to discriminate – this is something I want to change. Reinforced enforcement will also contribute to increased employment among immigrant women, as it will cost to discriminate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e262	I want to start by thanking the Council of State for the answer, an answer that reveals both disagreements and consensus points. Let me start with what we might not agree on completely, and that's that equality and integration are two sides of the same thing. Integration will not succeed without a forward-looking and active gender equality policy, and it is very important that society creates a framework for women and men to have the same opportunity to make free choices. I noticed that the Council of State in its contribution highlighted the importance of social sciences in the introduction programme. I fully agree with that. It is important that those who come to Norway from other countries have a basic knowledge of the laws and regulations on which our society is based, of both rights and duties. One of the most important features of the 1978 Equality Act is that it establishes that discrimination on grounds of sex is prohibited, and that equal opportunities should be provided for women and men in education, employment and cultural and professional development. The fact that the law focuses on just opportunities is an expression of the importance of equal rights, but not sufficient to ensure equality. It is also about having a real opportunity to exercise its rights. For this reason, a minimum level of education, health services and income protection is necessary in order to ensure that the opportunities to exercise their rights — and in and of their own responsibilities — in the Norwegian society are real. It is therefore essential that we do not comply with parallel standards in Norway – one for women most and one for the immigrant population. Women with a migrant background shall have the same opportunities to participate in education and working life as the rest of the population and shall be expected to participate in society in the same way as the rest of the population. This also applies to the participation of children and young people with a migrant background in kindergarten, SFO and recreational activities in the same way as other children. Therefore, our answer is more kindergartens, lower kindergarten prices and better offers for families with children. But the government is doing the opposite, they're increasing kindergarten prices and increasing cash support. After all, the government has put forward a cheek egg that affects equality, integration and affects the very basic plan of freedom: that you should be able to support yourself and be financially independent. My fear is that it is not useful with all the world's sensible measures, as the Council of State has also talked about here, if you skip the basics, namely that both those who live here from the beginning, and those who come to the country, are expected to participate in the labour market. You can't say on the one hand that you have to work, while at the same time paying women to be at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e273	I think we can at least say clearly that we agree on the most important thing, and that is that it is important to get women with immigrant backgrounds out into working life, so that they can become self-sustaining. Work is the key to good integration, but languages are also key to work and education. Therefore, an important task for the government in the future will now be to look at the introduction programme and get more women involved in language training, so that they have that basis for getting out of work. The government has launched a lot of measures on this particular matter, and we're going to work on it. There are too many differences outside the municipalities, as I mentioned in my first post, in Norwegian training, and when Norwegian training is so important to get out of the labour market, it becomes an important key in this work. Equality and integration policies are interrelated. Therefore, the gender equality message that the government is going to present in the summer, which is going to focus on real challenges in society, is going to have a clear and clear minority perspective, because we have to involve this group even when we talk about gender equality. Then I am a little surprised when the representative takes up the cash support in this debate, because it was probably a look-up in the newspaper last autumn that showed that the cash support did not prevent some of these women from getting out of work. They wanted to get into work, and when I've met immigrant women, they say, "We want to work, we want to be self-sustaining, but give us the tools, give us the opportunity to get into work and give us the opportunity to learn Norwegian." That's why the government is now going to lower the nursery prices. It is an important field for combating child poverty. There is also an extension of free core time with duty of activity, which will make parents get into work or into activity, which will also be Norwegian training. The previous government managed for eight years with cash support without any hindrance. This government has increased the cash support by NOK 1000. I believe that this is not a barrier to equality. The immigrant women we're going to be able to get hold of, have faith in, give them Norwegian training, give them the basis they need to get out of work. That's the way we can succeed in integrating.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e284	First, I want to pay tribute to Helga Pedersen to raise an important debate on how we can ensure that more people in our society have the opportunity to contribute their resources, the opportunity to give something to people around them and the opportunity to stand on their own feet and shape their own future. We see, as the representative Pedersen was about, a very complex picture when we talk about immigrant women. We are very successful, and it is important to note in this debate that, in very many areas, Norwegian integration history has been an outstanding international success with relatively high levels of professional participation, with many children today having the opportunity to make their own choices – be in kindergarten, be part of a social environment – and with many who are involved and contribute their resources into working life, organisational life and community life. It is gratifying to see that measured against most other countries, Norway is at the forefront of good integration and that everyone should have the opportunity to participate in society. In other words, diversity is our great strength as a nation. It contributes to more jobs — and through it contributes to the Norwegian community through taxes and value creation — but it also contributes a great deal to Norway becoming a more exciting country that attracts more of the creative class, which Richard Florida has pointed out is a prerequisite for success in the future society, namely that we are a diverse society with room for all. But if we are to see that diversity is a strength in the future, we must contribute – to a greater extent than we see today – to all being part of the community. Therefore, as a red thread through both politics and the history of the Workers' Party, we place emphasis on participation and opportunities for all. Our policies, I think, have contributed to Norway today being a society with little differences between people, with high trust in society, and how many, many have the opportunity to succeed. As former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg says, Norway is perhaps closer to the American dream than to the United States itself. We've made several big promises. In addition to the 1800s and 1900s, the workers were able to stand on their own feet and shape their own future. In addition to the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, we have seen the large take-up of women in working life and in organisational life, and that there has also been a group that has had the opportunity to grow. The next big promise that we are now in, that we have to take together as a community, is just about the immigrant population and then especially immigrant women. We know a lot about what's going on, because there are many of the same tools that worked when it came to raising the workers' population – and women beyond the 1970s and 1980s – that's language, education and work. Through the first large immigration movement to Norway in the 1970s, mainly through labour immigration, we saw that the idea was that after people had worked for a while in Norway, they would return. Therefore, there were very few active tools to help integrate this group into society. The problems associated with it have been seen, and we see them today by the fact that more people today have a loose connection with the world of work, and that more people are struggling with language. We have to think of investment in people from day one, providing good language training, and some of the most effective things we know about there, of course, is kindergarten. Therefore, full child care coverage and low prices are important, as are education – which Helga Pedersen has pointed to important elements – and jobs. It does not just keep getting more involved in the introduction programme, although it is also important. We have to have a much better follow-up after the end of the introduction program, because there are many who disappear back to home. The government is fundamentally failing in many of these areas, rather than investing in kindergarten and giving more people the opportunity to contribute to Norwegian society, so the government chooses cash support. It hits with surgical precision the groups of the population that we really wanted to have in the Norwegian community and in the working world.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e303	I want to start by thanking my colleague and co-representative Helga Pedersen for raising an important topic today. I think it's useful sometimes to get up this kind of theme as interpellations, because it gives some room to reflect, think a little bit, and not just necessarily argue about who has said what, even though someone has done it now. I also want to pay tribute to the Council of State to bring forward the important work that is now being done for women, and the work that is being done through the State budget, but also in the projects that are now being announced in the future. I would like to link some reflections to the integration of women with a minority background, especially into working life. Just like the school is an important arena for integrating children, I believe that work and the workplace are the most important arena for the integration of adults with a minority background. Unfortunately, we see that in many immigrant families only father works. If his income is not high, it will be difficult financially, especially if you have many children. Then we see at the same time that the woman's role is further cemented by being out of work. It sometimes means the same thing as being outside of society. We also see that many children with a minority background start school without being able to speak well enough. The fact that women are not at work is not just about women not being integrated, it also sometimes means that the family is not integrated. Let me draw out three good examples of the work that is being done, and I also believe that we must continue to bet on. One is that we need to give priority to those organisations that work specifically with the integration of women with a minority background, in particular with a focus on helping them into working life. There I think that the way you have now chosen, where you strengthen the work and strengthen the device for women, is quite right. I also think that we need to look at further strengthening of measures such as free core time in kindergarten, and perhaps also look at the SFO. But we have to be able to relate it to some kind of activity, an activity offer – I don't want to use the word ‘activity obligation’ necessarily. The most important thing is that women receive an offer of e.g. Norwegian, job-seeker or job-training while the children are in kindergarten. In this way, children will receive the important training they need in Norwegian in order to be able to start school in a good way, and their mothers will be better able to enter the labour market. We also need to strengthen the introduction system, which has been discussed today. Today, if a woman comes to Norway through family reunification, she gets a different arrangement from the women in the traditional introduction system. Syncing these better with each other could also be a good idea. I have a very good dialogue with the Council of State on this very topic. Finally, I must nevertheless be allowed to point to a paradox, because we are here today discussing women and working life the day after we have had a discussion about temporary employment. I've talked to many women with a minority background, both by going to their homes and by meeting them in different contexts in the organization life. When we start talking about work, some of the most important things are coming up – a common denominator coming up: give me a chance! Give me an opportunity to show what I'm good for! Let me get one foot in the workplace instead of having both outside – my CV is better off showing three jobs than three jobseekers! I want to say that it's a little paradoxical to talk so hot about women entering the workplace when at the same time you're not willing to give them the most important chance: the first.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e320	I would also like to thank the interpellant Helga Pedersen for travelling this interpellation. It's an important question, and it's asked in a very good way. It is about using the skills and resources of immigrant women — including in the workplace. Women with a minority background in Norway have a background from more than 220 countries. Some belong to minorities with a long history in the country; others have recently come as refugees, because of work or through family immigration. Some have come without schooling and professional experience; others have long education and work experience. The majority of immigrants in Norway are working. They speak Norwegian and participate in different social arenas, but we know that the proportion of employed immigrants is lower than in the population. There are greater differences in the level of employment between women and men among immigrants than for the whole population. More men than women are employed – regardless of background. We know that there is a close link between weak links to the labour market and low incomes. Some of the low-income households have a certain connection to the working life, but that is not enough to raise them above the low income threshold. Many children live in low - income families. This is largely a question of social cohesion, as well as the obvious question of how women with an immigration background will be able to use themselves and their talents and resources in a new country. These are important questions. As we know and have already heard a lot about this today, there are many different measures that can contribute, and there are measures aimed at several levels. There are individualised measures, and there are measures that are meant to work for families, so that we get flexibility and solutions that allow both parents to work if desired. There are instruments aimed at jobs, and there are measures to strengthen municipalities in the construction and integration work. Job opportunities are a fine system with the aim of increasing employment among migrant workers who are not linked to the labour market and who are not caught by other schemes. The priority target group is domestic women. The system of free core time in kindergarten is important for children in low-income families to go to kindergarten. It's important for their language development, and it's part of the big picture for the family. Open kindergarten is also an offer that can be positive for integration: getting to know, learning languages, lowering the thresholds into society. There are good national resource environments that can also contribute to increasing integration for immigrant women, as mentioned above, for example. MiRA, Resource Centre for Women with a Minority Background. I think it's absolutely right to bet more, as mentioned by the previous speaker, on these organizations that stand these women very close. Finally, a few words about the cash support, as it has been launched. I just have to say that it is perfectly legitimate to oppose the cash support if one believes that the state should not use funds to facilitate parental freedom of choice. It's totally legitimate. However, the integration argument is undocumented and really very little credible. None of the public authorities that have submitted their reports have demonstrated that the removal of cash support will have an integration effect, but it is assumed that it may have an impact. So here it's important to be sober.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e341	Interpellant Helga Pedersen is raising an important debate. We're all a few of them about that. And it's right that work is a key to integration. The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion in the 2015 budget refers to figures from the SSB which show that immigrant women are more than men outside the labour market, that they have fewer Norwegian friends and experience more loneliness. Women are the worst integrated and the losers in welfare statistics. Norwegian Folkehelp has developed the article collection ‘Do you hire me?’, to which Helga Pedersen has referred in his interpellation. She herself is a contributor to the paper and refers to measures that I think are needed to be closed down with greater integration of immigrant women into working life. Language skills and good childcare facilities are particularly important for these women, who often have good skills but weak networks around them. In the report, Norwegian Public Aid also shows that while 67 pst. of Norwegian women are active, the number is 37 pst. for African immigrant women and 50 pst. for immigrant women from Asia. What is particularly alarming is that Norwegian-born women with immigrant parents have a much lower professional activity than Norwegian women in general. One of the article writers, psychologist Ragnar Kværness, writes about the fear of the unknown. We know that a Norwegian name itself helps a jobseeker to get to the search center. Anonymous applications have been discussed, and there is a measure that may be relevant. Perhaps the public can lead to better testing of it. There have been many measures in the debate, including those of the Council of State. I want to stay a little bit with the Jobjesen action, which is a project that was introduced under the red-green government, and which has been passed on by the current one. I'm glad, because this is a project that meets the challenge of getting more immigrants into work or education. There is a special focus on women in the program. It targets immigrants aged 18 to 55. Home-dwelling women who are not dependent on social assistance are a priority target group for Job support. And then there's some clear criteria to be able to search for the funds set aside for this project. Municipalities with at least 750 immigrants and Norwegian births with immigrant parents can apply for asylum. In the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion for 2015, 54 actions were allocated funds in 2014. So let's see if we can solve this problem. So let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's Interpellant asks what state councils will do to increase the employment of immigrant women. It is, as I said, pointing to several things, and I am pleased that the Council of State believes that the further development of Jobjessen is one of the measures involved. Immigrant women outside the labour market can be found in most municipalities, but only a limited number of municipalities can apply for funds from Jobsjansen. 750 immigrants with a migrant background are a very high requirement to search for project tools. Why is there such a requirement when the specific projects can be quite small? In the Central Party, we believe that the job opportunities must be developed as a measure. The level of the budgetary effort should be increased, and the conditions under which funds may be sought need to be changed in order to make the action available to far more women, and thus more immigrant women. And let me underline: immigrant women are a resource for our society, and we need them in the working life, but there is a little bit of organization to make use of their resources and competences. It also applies to measures that downgrade our prejudices and change our attitudes. In the debate by the representative from the Right, there was a reference to the work environment law and changes in it and the strike that occurred yesterday. The representative believes that it opens up for better entry for women. I guess that's what they're talking about. It is not certain that there are disabled people and immigrant women who become winners with their government proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e360	Work and income are the key to economic autonomy and a free life. That is why I would like to thank the representative Helga Pedersen for taking up a very important debate. Work is essential for inclusion, for participation. It is important for individuals, but it is also important to prevent poverty from inheriting and for young people to go outside. Women's union will always have a direct effect on childhood. That is why, in SV, good Norwegian training and good training in Norwegian society are important through the introduction programme, and we believe that an active inclusion policy is important, of course from the authorities, but also locally. I see in my own community, who have recently settled refugees, that there is a very good work done by local women and ferrets to include the newcomers – they have learned to fill up cod. We regard it as important with broad welfare services and a broad welfare policy to ensure kindergartens, housing, which is the basis for all, but which are particularly important for those at risk. We know that welfare policy works smoothly, and we also know that the economic differences between minority and majority are great. But there is a need for active policies at all levels to ensure inclusion, and there is a conflict theme in cash support. Paying women to be at home could not possibly contribute to inclusion, job participation or financial autonomy. While very many people who are at work are receiving the cash support to pay their day-to-day mother because they have not been given kindergarten, those who do not have a job will use the cash support to be at home, and that is the group we are talking about today. We have seen that the use of cash support has fallen because it is no longer so much needed, as it has been built several kindergartens, but we see that those who receive the cash support are perhaps the ones who have children who have benefited most from going to kindergarten. In 2013, according to the SSB, 45 pst received. of all children of the relevant age with a migrant background, cash support. I lack documentation from the Council of State on the claim that it does not affect inclusion and equality. I support those who believe that it seems negative both for language development and for inclusion, but it would be interesting to hear the Council of State documentation in addition to an interview with someone who thinks the scheme is good. It would have been interesting to hear the Workers' Party's view of the relationship between cash support, equality and inclusion, as there is also a debate there. We want to liquidate the cash support and have a waiting benefit while people are waiting for kindergarten. That's how it works for a lot of people today. I don't understand that it's appropriate to pay women to be at home, especially when we see that there are many minority women involved, while actively saying that you want women to participate in work. We often hear that immigrant women have to get into work, but I miss an offensive strategy for what to do to have employers let them in. I fully agree with the views of the Council of State on discrimination that is taking place and that it must be taken into account. I am very happy and proud to look back at Jobsjansen, which we got introduced when we were in government. We know that it works, and therefore we should want it to be further strengthened. We proposed 45 million. kr in our budget, and we're going to follow it closely. In conclusion, I would like to promote language, support for organisations and women's communities and the broad welfare policy as a crucial foundation in the objective of including women in the labour market. But if we're going to have security as a goal, we all have to have safe floors. Temporary posts are not the answer if security is an objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e380	I can, on behalf of the Workers' Party, start by answering SV that the Workers' Party is to remove the cash support. We are also some people with SV in that it would be very sensible to get a kind of waiting support scheme for those who are waiting in kindergarten. The debate that Mr Pedersen's representative is going to have is very important. I want to bring a new moment into the debate: a commitment to get work and be able to be at work is that one has a safe life. Many women in Norway, both ethnically Norwegian and immigrant, live unfree lives under the influence of power. When it comes to these women, we have a lot of work to do. We see that immigrant women are overrepresented in Norwegian crisis centres. I want – for the sake of order – to recognize that very many of these immigrant women are married to ethnic Norwegian men, so we don't get a myth of why those women are there. What we know is that very many immigrant women in crisis centres don't have work. They don't have a social network. They don't have the security of others who are in the world of work. For this reason, I believe that this is a very important part of working on, both for Solvency Horne and for the Minister of Justice, to strengthen the work on crisis centre provision and crisis provision in the municipalities. In that perspective, it is also very important to do better work on what to do when women are done in a crisis centre. As was said by others in the debate here: we may be good in individual phases, in the introduction program, when someone is at a crisis centre, but with regard to what we do afterwards, we can do a much better job. Gender equality policy is crucial for the outcome of whether we can get more immigrant women to work. Lack of gender equality policy will also have major consequences. We know that for women in general, being self-sufficient, having an income, is a very important factor in being able to get out of an unfree and unsafe life. I mean, then it doesn't really help much that the council says we're some people that this is important. Yes, we're a few that this is important, but we're probably not quite a few about what's going on. I believe that the debate on cash support is relevant, and the debate on parental leave and his distribution. The overall policy on gender equality is also relevant to the integration debate we have here. I also believe that the work of holding must be strengthened. Today, young immigrant women are at a height. The 'rular' Blind – it may not have been a parliamentary expression – but it is in a way still a challenge that they do not get a job because of what they are called. The last four to five months ago, we had a big look up in Telemarksavias. A woman from Somalia, in high school, did not get a job. I believe it is important that we still keep the tab high for the work on babysitting and schooling when it comes to integration and immigration issues. To the representative Bekkewold: We can turn around and turn around the sentences as it suits us – based on our own values and our own policies. I mean, it's perfectly legitimate to think that the state, that the community, is going to pay women to be at home. It is quite legitimate to mean it, but I think – as Kirsti Bergstø, Helga Pedersen and several others have pointed out – that when one believes that there is no evidence that the cash support has a negative effect, one should perhaps be a little audacious from that edge, among other things. then we removed the cash support for two-year-olds, that nine out of ten cash support recipients in Oslo were immigrant women. You can't ignore it. At the end of the day, I want to ask State Council Horne: The progress party has been making a few years since a proposal in Stortinget to remove the cash support for immigrant women. Is the proposal from the Progress Party still pending?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e399	Firstly, I would like to thank all those who have taken part in this debate. There are still some fundamental disagreements, which we have not agreed on today either. At the same time, there are a number of areas and points where I feel that there is a cross-political interest in moving forward. I would like to convey to the Council Horne some ideas, suggestions for further work, in order to integrate and employ immigrant women to a higher degree than what we are doing today. The first proposal is to make primary education a more systematic part of the introduction programme, according to the Sunndals model and the experience they have gained there. The second proposal – I suggest it even though I do not believe the Council of State will agree – is to invest more in kindergarten and free core time in the SFO rather than more cash support. The third proposal is to develop more comprehensive courses of education and qualification for women with low educational levels, for those with weak Norwegian skills and lack of work experience and who are currently not job seekers through Job opportunities and other types of programmes. Horne has spent a lot of time talking about, where she has the workers' party's warm support, and we will follow very closely that this is being followed up. I also believe that we need to look at how to extend Nav's responsibility to carry out more out-of-work activities and recruiting those who are currently out of work – to training, qualification and work training. The Council of State also talked about this with business start-ups and business start-ups. I think this is something that should definitely be done more in Norway. Much is being done, but I think it is also necessary to use Innovation Norway, which is present in all parts of the country, as a tool to stimulate immigrant women to become entrepreneurs and business start-ups. Then there's still a job to do to facilitate a simpler recognition of foreign education. Finally, I would like to comment on Mudasar Kapur and what is involved in temporary employment. Well, this is just an area where we're at risk of introducing double standards. I believe that there are those who have the least resources from the past — least education, least money — who have the least to gain from Norway's development towards a labour-union society. We are not there today, but increasing use of temporary employment will primarily affect those who have the weakest connection to the labour market. There are an incredible number of other measures that can be taken to provide migrant women with professional experience, rather than opening the door to temporary employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e410	I think this has been a good debate, and we agree on the intention here, we agree that it is important to get women with immigrant backgrounds into work. And then we might disagree a little bit about the cash support, but basically there is a consensus about a lot of the measures that are going on. I am very pleased that the representative Lene Vågslid addresses this with violence, and I look forward to a report from the crisis centre that comes on Monday, where we see that immigrant women are overrepresented in crisis centres, and that it is important that we have a focus on this. As a result, violence is also part of the gender equality message that the government is going to present before the summer. In terms of language, education and work, this integration work takes place in the municipalities, and I get worried when I see that there are so many differences in the work going on in the municipalities, that there are some municipalities that can only get 8-9 pst. in education or work following the introduction programme, while others are able to cope with 80-90-100 pst. The big differences I want to smooth out. I want the municipalities to learn from each other, and that we should organise for what the municipalities are also asking for, a greater flexibility in the introduction system. We need to help the municipalities in this work. The interpellant was in Nav and Innovation Norway: Yes, the municipalities cannot do this alone. We see that the municipalities that succeed in the integration work have taken on a management responsibility, that the entire municipality is working on this: they have a good cooperation with the business community, they have a good cooperation with Nav, they have a good cooperation with non-governmental organisations, and all this work is the key to achieving a good integration work. We have started a lot of projects, and there has been a tripling of the allocations to Jobjesen from 2012, but the municipalities also need time to put these measures in place, which is important to get in place. But this is something we have to follow up on, and we also have to get back to expanding it. It is important, as the representative of Arild Grande pointed out, that we must have good quality in kindergartens in order for the children to learn Norwegian. This is a work on which this government has invested – good quality in kindergarten, good quality in language training and low prices for low income families. Then it becomes important that we get free core time across the country. The most recent figures show that approx. 72 pst. of children with a minority background in kindergarten, and it is important to get hold of the latter. This is a job we're going to do by focusing on making immigrant families understand the importance of language training before they start school, and then they have to go to kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e425	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e441	The previous case shows that the fight against discrimination against women has not been won once and for all. Exposure to equality between women’s rights and men is and will be a challenge for all those who are concerned with justice. It is a general goal to eliminate the injustice that affects 50 pst in too many contexts. by the population. It is therefore important to highlight the discrimination affecting women who give birth. The importance of women’s participation in the labour market is no longer discussed. Women's participation in employment is important because it contributes to significant values for our society. Yes, Norwegian women's professional participation is at the top of the world and actually contributes more than the revenue from oil and gas to our well-being. At the same time, own income is necessary for women to live an economically independent life. Even after many years in the world summit on gender equality, many people experience discrimination in childbirth. The fact that there is pregnancy discrimination in the workplace may be appropriate to be surprised, especially because we have legislation against it. But that's the way it is. Both the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the employee organisations continue to point out that we have not come as far as we wanted and hoped. They indicate many requests, lack of knowledge of scope and weaknesses in legislation and supervision. Discrimination turns out that women lose their jobs, do not get the job they have applied for, and lose their jobs, career opportunities and pay rises. Discrimination due to withdrawal of parental leave also affects specific women. A survey conducted by Response's Analysis on behalf of one of the major recruitment and recruitment agencies last November is not uplifting. One of three says they're skeptical about hiring pregnant women. The entire 89 pst. by male and 81 pst. by women leaders think that pregnant women should be open and honest if they are pregnant or are planning to have children — despite the law establishing that they are banned from asking questions. It is easy to conclude that occupational discrimination due to pregnancy and/or parental leave shows that there is a long way to go about gender equality. The government's contribution to weakening fathers' rights to parental leave is a very poor initiative against both equality and discrimination. The same is true of the proposal for more temporaryity. A report on pregnancy discrimination by the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman shows that the clear majority of cases concerning discrimination on grounds of pregnancy or maternity leave relate to employment, including the renewal/renewal of vicariates or other temporary posts. In the hearing on the Government's proposal for new rules on temporaryity, the Ombudsman wrote the following in his reply to the hearing: «In LDO's complaints concerning discrimination against women against women, much more of the cases concern temporary employment than the scope of temporary employment in the labour market. There are more women than men who are currently temporarily employed [[...]] I have recorded that Horne also shares the scepticism for more temporaryity in her opinion on the proposal for changes to the Working Environment Act and has asked for an impact assessment. LDO has recently contributed a comprehensive note entitled ‘The Discrimination Prohibition’. pregnancy and parental leave in the field of work – a summary»; There is a knowledge of the legal status, together with information on the rules of EU/EEA law and the importance of the UN Convention on Women’s Discrimination in this area. It is noted that there is little Norwegian case law in the area of pregnancy discrimination. However, the requests to the Ombudsman confirm the need to put discrimination on the agenda. The barriers for women in working life and for men in the family are both being continued and reinforced. About 2000 of LDO-related work cases in the 2007–2012 period were justified by gender. 1005 guidance cases and 146 complaints were about pregnancy and parental leave. The complaints came from women, a few from men. Despite the relatively high level of legal protection against discrimination due to pregnancy and parental leave, it appears that many women are discriminated against in everyday life. As I have interpreted the available material, it seems that discrimination is based on the lack of knowledge and knowledge of women’s rights and on the role of supervisory authorities in stimulating the organisation of each pregnant woman. This was also the reason why I addressed my interpellation to the Minister of Labour, whom I still believe is right for a political discussion of this matter. I note that the Minister for Child Equality and Gender Equality's proposal announces that the Committee on Equal Opportunities and Discrimination should hold a conference on the subject. That's good, but I think we need more focus than having a conference on the matter. That is why, in the interpellation, I have challenged the government on which initiatives will be taken to prevent pregnancy discrimination from continuing to be as extensive as it is now – not if such initiatives are to be taken. In concrete terms, I will challenge the Council of State on the following, in the light of the knowledge we have today: How will the government ensure that both workers and employers are given knowledge of rights that prevent discrimination against pregnancy? How will it be possible to identify the extent and development of such discrimination? How can authorities better monitor and sanction infringements? Would you like to cooperate with the social partners on commitment plans for guidance on organisation – also to prevent sick leave – for pregnant women? In the end, the Council of State has announced that she will take a look at the sanctions regime. It's very interesting to share the thoughts she has about it. Then is my specific question: will the employee and employer organisations become part of such a system of sanctions, or how do you think it should be implemented in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e496	I would like to thank the representative of Aasrud for raising an important debate on the protection of discrimination against pregnant women and workers in parental leave. Both women and men have a unique opportunity to combine working life and family life, and in Norway we have a solid legal protection against discrimination against pregnant women and workers in parental leave. If a woman is ill-treated because of pregnancy, or if a man or woman is ill-treated because of parental leave, it is considered to be discrimination. The prohibition applies to permanent staff, temporary staff and other temporary staff. The ban applies to all aspects of employment – call, interview, employment, pay placement, job assignment, leave, cancellation and dismissal. We also have the right to return to the same or similar position, to promote pay claims, the right to pay and the right to benefit from general improvements in pay and working conditions. Legal protection against discrimination is solid. Nevertheless, we see that discrimination is taking place. When pregnant women and parental leave workers experience discrimination at work, there is evidence that legal protection is not always sufficient. We know that LDO received more than 170 requests for pregnancy discrimination in 2014. I am pleased to see the problem this way, but I am concerned that so many people experience discrimination when we have such a solid legal protection. The employer has a separate responsibility for ensuring that there is no pregnancy discrimination in his own activities. Each employer must follow up on his own activities. The legislation obliges employers to work actively and systematically to combat discrimination in their own employment. The obligation of activity is one of several issues I look at in the work on new common equality and non-discrimination laws. I also believe that employers' organisations have overall responsibility to ensure compliance with the rules in the membership organisations, and it is important to address this in meetings with the organisations in the tripartite cooperation. How can we work together to combat discrimination against pregnancy? When I now announce that the activity obligation will be part of the work on the new law, I would also like to mention that there are several employers who require both guidance and more information on how this obligation of activity can be fulfilled. They also ask for flexibility because there are differences in the individual workplace. It'll be an important work. Having a good protection against discrimination is important, but we also need to have a good enforcement system. In the job we are now doing with a common equality and non-discrimination law, enforcement in this area becomes a central theme in this context. A strong and effective enforcement apparatus is important for good and effective law enforcement. That is why we have launched an investigation into today's enforcement apparatus. The investigation shall aim at separating the law enforcement role and the driving role, so that LDO can cultivate the driving role. It is also an objective of the investigation to strengthen the whole range of law enforcement. As it is today, there are no consequences for employers to discriminate. An example is a 20-year-old woman who gets laid off because she's pregnant. She may have a decision that she has been discriminated against in the field of equality and discrimination, but must therefore go the way of the Court in order to obtain financial compensation in the form of compensation or upliftment. And we know that someone who is 20 years old and pregnant and loses his job, maybe is not in the financial situation that she has the opportunity to take this to court. A judicial process is both time-consuming and costly, and therefore, in reality, it is not an alternative for several of those who are discriminated against. For me, it is important that strong and effective protection against discrimination can also be combined with flexible solutions for the individual family of young children. The representative Aasrud refers to the government's proposal for new rules on parental leave. For the sake of order, I would like to stress that it is possible to extend the exemption system in a case that is still pending in the ministry. The matter has, as people are familiar with, been at public hearings, and we are now assessing the follow-up to this and looking at the hearing opinions. The proposal to allow more people to transfer the quota to the other parent is based on the government’s desire to pursue a family policy tailored to the needs of the families. The families are different, and it's not like one solution is suitable for everyone. Nor should we forget the parental pension scheme for children. The parent quota – and the mother quota – will pass. What the government has proposed is to extend today's derogation scheme to some new groups we believe need it in particular. If the law is amended in line with the consultation proposal, there will still be a relatively narrow possibility of exception. Exemptions will not apply to employees of the public sector or to large enterprises. A new group that may be exempted is sole proprietor. In some cases, self-employed persons may find it difficult to stay away from the establishment for a long time. I know an example of a family where my father works as a teacher and my mother is a businessman. For them it is best that father takes as much of the leave as possible. They will thus be able to benefit from an extended exemption scheme. The proposal to extend the derogation system must also be seen in the context of the fact that the government and the cooperation parties have implemented an increase in the common part of the parental pension scheme. With effect from 1 July 2014, the scheme has become more flexible by increasing the proportion of parents who decide by themselves by eight weeks. In this way, parents can easily add up to a leave period adapted to the situation of their own family. We can't be sure how the changes will affect the parent's withdrawals. Some may choose traditionally and allow mother to take more than before, but with an increased common interest, the father's ability to take out parental leave also increases if the parents want it. In the past, 14 weeks were tied up to the mother's quota. Now Mother can return to work after ten weeks without the family losing their weeks. This may be the case for families where the mother is a sole proprietor and has no possibility of being away from the establishment. Instead, Father can come in sooner than was possible with the arrangement of the previous government. We know today that not everyone is able to make use of their quota. This means that the weeks fall away. If the Storting adopts an extended exemption scheme, more groups than at present will be able to transfer the allowance to the other parent. Thus, the weeks may be taken out of the parents to the best of the child, unlike today when the weeks are unused. Maybe a change would mean that father more often transfers his allowance to mother than vice versa. This does not mean, however, that mothers get longer absences from work than they have today. If father does not have the opportunity to withdraw his quota, the family has to find another solution. For many, this means that mother must be at home unpaid. That mother increases her withdrawal from parental care is therefore not necessarily the same as that mother increases her time away from work. I would like to stress that the parental pension scheme is primarily a good one for the children, who have one of the parents at home with parental leave for nearly one year. The government wants to offer good, flexible solutions so that parents can use the parental pension scheme as much as possible to suit themselves and their situation as best they can. I trust that parents make good choices for their family, and then we must work together to put discrimination on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e547	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I might have expected the Council of State to have been somewhat more offensive in view of measures that could counteract what is the main theme of this interview today, namely that we are experiencing discrimination against pregnant women in working life. I record that the Council of State spends a lot of time explaining and defending why the changes that have been made to the parental leave scheme have been made. There are well-known arguments. I think maybe the Council of State underestimates the pressure that's going to be on women to take a much larger share of the leave. Although there may certainly be individual cases such as the intervention of the Council of State, it is important that we pursue a policy that embraces the breadth of the Norwegian population. So I think the answer was something passive. It's good to look at the duty of activity. I am pleased that the Council of State says that tripartite cooperation will be used to discuss these issues with employers and employee organisations. It is absolutely necessary, and I also hope that it will be part of the large central meetings in which the Prime Minister and the Minister of Labour are also present, and that it will not be a subject that is raised alongside everything else. Then I agree with the Council when she says that there is a need for more information about these issues – I think many see that. It will be a little difficult to see how to meet it when the Council of State has presented a budget for the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman with zero increase from 2014 to 2015. There is therefore no possibility for the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman to take new initiatives, and I would have thought that was necessary when you see as great challenges as the ones we have. I think it is important to lift up and work more actively on this matter. It is a cross of thought when it is recorded that the number of children born to each woman in Norway has fallen in recent years. I believe that, among other things, This discrimination may be related when returning from a maternity leave. The workplace has been changed, jobs have been lost, and it is time for many not to have the last child, which you might have had if you had other experiences when you came back. But I repeat: I thank the Council of State for the answer, and challenge her on a few more active points. Then I would also like the Council of State to discuss something more about the issue of temporaryity, on which LDO has been very clear. There must be something that concerns the Council of State in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e560	The interpellant was looking for more concrete measures. The most important thing is that we have a good law against discrimination, and we do. We have a solid legal protection against discrimination for this particular group. But when that law is not enough, when it still has no consequences for the discriminater, we have a challenge. I have taken this seriously with the work we have done now in bringing together the law – looking at the obligation of activity, informing employers and looking at attitudes. When you talk to a young business owner and he says you don't consider 29-year-old ladies/girls because you're afraid they'll get pregnant, there's also something about the attitudes out there. This is why it is an important topic, which is addressed in tripartite cooperation, that one needs to get information out to businesses. It's a job that both the Minister of Labour, me and the government are taking seriously, and that becomes a topic when we're going to meet the employee organisations. Almost none of the cases in which a decision to discriminate has been taken are brought before the courts. That is why it is important that we now have an investigation into how we can manage to strengthen the enforcement system, because we should not, therefore, have a good law with a good protection against discrimination that does not have consequences for the offender. I think that we get this in place, it's an important step towards enforcing the law we have. Because the law is good, we have a good law, but we also have to look at enforcement. So the interpellant was in for temporaryity. I have full support for the Minister of Labour in the work of the Working Environment Act, and I am very happy that the government is now going to put in place a new work environment law. It is important to ensure that more people are able to try their way into the labour market and fit into the labour market. So the interpellant is also very clear that it's going to be fixed employment. It is firm, but it must be possible to put in place a better flexibility in the law that we have today, so that more people than today can try out in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e569	The interpellant raises an important issue about something that is happening all too often, but which is not often the subject of public debate. Yesterday thousands protested against introducing more temporary employment. Discrimination against pregnant women was not so much mentioned in that debate, but more temporary employment would be a factor in increasing discrimination against pregnant women or those planning to have children. The requirement to have been employed during the last six months before birth in order to receive support may be difficult to meet. The leave from a temporary employer is uncertain, because there is no job to return to after a leave – the job was only temporary. It might be interesting to hear what the Council of State thinks about those who do not have the right to support or arrangements that permanent employees have when they have been or are pregnant, rather a job to come back to. Many pregnant women experience a shorter or longer period of illness, which will also be uninteresting for a temporary employer, and there will be good reason to leave the job as soon as possible. This makes the arrangements all the worse. With the notified change, discrimination against pregnant women will not go down, but across the board, as I see it. I know that the Council of State has previously expressed scepticism for this, but I hear now that she agrees with the Council of State Eriksson. How will she take the matter further and make sure that the pregnant women are safe? Many are the stories of women who consider themselves to be discriminated against before or after birth or before they are to be hired, because they are of childbearing age and may risk becoming pregnant workers. A lot of people don't have the power to deal with it, because it can be a period of life, because it's really enough to get the days to hang out with family life and work, and, as the council said, many are young and dare not do anything about it. That is why it is important that we raise this debate here and change our views on it. Because we're all proud of the great professional participation we have of women in Norway. We're totally dependent on it, and we're also dependent on women working more. That is why we need to facilitate this, and that is why we need to address the issue of discrimination against pregnant women. Yes, we have a code that ensures the organisation of work for pregnant women before birth and that it facilitates participation in professional life. But it has to be followed up. In particular, in the context of typical women’s activities in care and care or other occupations with physical challenges, better organisation is needed to avoid heavy lifting and unlucky work. There are many other important tasks that can be done, and there has to be a lot of understanding at work in order for the pregnant person to be able to work rather than being sick. Here we also see some form of discrimination, where attitudes among colleagues who expect normal participation in the work of daily life can prevent the pregnant person from participating during pregnancy because the pregnant person simply cannot do the job she tends to do. These are also attitudes that need to be changed, and it is the employer's duty and responsibility to take action when this happens. Most pregnancies do not give cause for ill-treatment; therefore, it is important to facilitate those who can work during pregnancy. We also have young women who do not get a job because they are of childbearing age and are expected to become pregnant in a short time, as the Council of State was also concerned. Although it is not allowed to ask the question, one hears about subtle ways to determine whether pregnancy is planned, and thoughts about the future life of the female applicants. It's probably hard to prevent, because it's not done concretely and demonstrably, but I hope that women are aware of their rights and say when such things happen. But how are we going to change that? The law is clear enough, as the Council of State also said in its article, but that is obviously not enough. Here we are responsible for changing attitudes and for the employer’s giving thanks. There's a lot of things to deal with, as the interpellant so well takes up, and I hope the council follows these up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e584	All humans are equivalent and shall be given the same opportunities. The Party of Progress does not accept indiscriminate discrimination. The Progress Party considers equality to be a very important prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy. Pregnancy is discriminated against both women who are already pregnant and young women who are believed to want to have a family within a few years. I am also familiar with, as many have said here, that young women are asked about family plans in the job interview, and that some women experience losing the possibility of promotion when they become pregnant, because some employers fear long-term absences as a result of having children. Such treatment is pre-intentional and can make it more difficult for women than for men to advance in working life, and it involves discrimination against women whom we cannot accept. When the child is born and the parents are going on leave, we also see that fathers are discriminated against on the basis of sex. Because women have traditionally been at home with the baby, the man feels that it may be difficult to obtain an employer’s permission to take a higher share of parental leave than the father’s allowance. This means that some men take out only ten weeks, even though they want to take out a greater share of the parental leave they have for free distribution. This is very unfortunate and hampers the freedom of choice of the family, for which the Advance Party is a strong champion. We have a good protection against discrimination today. Discrimination on the basis of pregnancy and maternity leave is regarded as discrimination on grounds of sex and is prohibited under Section 5 of the Gender Equality Act, to which reference is made in the Working Environment Act. What I see as a major problem in cases of discrimination on the grounds of pregnancy and parental leave are today's enforcement rules, which have also been discussed by many. Infringement of the Gender Equality Act is enforced by the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and Name, who cannot enforce the rules on upliftment and compensation provided for in the same law. This was also the subject of the Council of State as a challenge. That a person who has been discriminated against, having been given a decision as to whether he or she has been discriminated against, must bring an action for reparation and compensation before the courts, I consider to be unworthy and unworthy. I am therefore very pleased that Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion Horne is now carrying out an investigation of today's enforcement apparatus, which I see as an important part of this in strengthening enforcement. It's not just about being right, it's about getting right. Therefore, a better and more user-friendly enforcement system is a good step in the right direction to overcome such discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e599	First of all, I would like to thank the representative Aasrud for addressing this topic today. It's an important question for many women and many families. Most people would say that the legislation is clear and clear. Nevertheless, we know that discrimination is taking place, and that even today, in Norway in 2015, many people feel that their everyday lives and lives are affected and governed by such cases of discrimination. As others have mentioned today, it may be anything from a lost job opportunity for a pregnant woman to a man who wants to take out the parental leave. It can be about women or men who come back from leave and feel that they are not getting back the jobs they had before going on leave. For the Christian People's Party, it is an important goal to facilitate that parents can combine working life with family life in a good way. Because, fortunately, it's possible for many to get to this. It is possible to have a good life with children and work. Not everyone wants to work full-time or part-time as a young child’s parent, but for those who want it – and that is true of many – it is important that we from the political side facilitate it. The theme of today's interpellation is part of this debate. We should have the opportunity to combine maternity, parental leave and early childhood life with work. The employer needs to make it possible to do so in a good way. We should not experience that the employer directly or indirectly prevents or makes this combination difficult, or that it penalises the combination of family and job. This is essential for the participation of young children’s parents in the labour market. It is essential for women to be able to participate in the labour market. It is crucial for continued high birth rates in Norway. And it is, in fact, crucial for Norway's future that we have good arrangements around this. The councils were concerned about this which has to do with permissive weeks and a decoration of the legislation. The Christian People's Party believes that the intention of a legislative amendment extending access to allowances for parental leave is that parents who are not allowed to use all leave weeks with a new scheme should be able to use all leave weeks. After all, the purpose is for parents to have more time with the child and for more people to be able to take out all the weeks of parental leave. However, the amendment of the law must contain clear criteria on which situations and conditions to be able to justify the transfer of allowances between parents. It is important that the parental quota is maintained and that the earring is real – primarily for the sake of the child and the family. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Council of State also confirms this. The Christian People's Party believes that it is possible to find solutions that expand the freedom of exception without eroding the designation. But this work is not yet done, and we will follow closely the proposals that are coming. We're also going to record our thoughts about this, because it's very important that you don't introduce an embellishment that actually eliminates the quota that's in these permissive weeks. It must be firm. It is also mentioned that a gender equality message has been notified. I'm looking forward to that. I think that gives us an opportunity to drill a lot more in what the interpellant brings up in this debate, and I look forward to getting it presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e616	Interpellant Aasrud addresses a very important theme, pregnancy discrimination, a theme we still need to focus on. Norway needs children and therefore also pregnancies. This is an essential part of life. It is an investment, not a cost. Eliminating pregnant women from work is a very short-term economic idea. Let me say first of all: pregnancy should not experience discrimination in the workplace. That's probably everyone in this room agreed on. This is what § 5 of the Equality Act states: ‘The main rule on the prohibition of discrimination Discrimination on grounds of sex is prohibited. Discrimination on grounds of pregnancy and maternity or adoption leave is regarded as discrimination on grounds of sex. The prohibition applies to discrimination based on the actual, suspected, past or future pregnancy or leave of a person. The prohibition also applies to discrimination on grounds of sex of a person to whom discrimination relates.’;» However, reality is often different from what is legal in this room, both in terms of what is permitted in equality laws and in other laws. Interpellant points out that both women and men experience discrimination in employment. Some employers in some industries do not see it as positive that men assume their legal right to parental leave. This has to do with culture and behavior, and with very short-term and narrowing economic thinking. We don't know how wide it is, but there's too much. It is also the case that discrimination takes various forms. Last fall my party colleague, Kjersti Toppe, took up in an interpellation discrimination against hospital workers as a result of pregnancy. Tops showed that the problem is related to discrimination against pregnant women — yes, because there is a very high problem — also in the public sector. The gender equality issue has also previously characterised hospitals as morbidity, for this is not a case of individual events. The country needs to clean up its own dishes. Too many lay people have temporary settings, and they work too long in temporary settings. It shouldn't be like that, and it shouldn't be like that. I share the concerns expressed by the Labour Party representatives in their posts here in the Chamber today. The centre party believes that the use of temporary positions in the workplace is a practice and will fight against such a development, whether it concerns state-owned hospitals or other and more low-paid professionals. Large use of temporary settings within different sectors makes them much more vulnerable. Temporarily setting time creates uncertainty and thus also a danger that a person will not give notice of bad conditions to the lease. This is a danger in all sectors, but the risk will vary depending on the type of work. In some professions, there may be a question of life and death. In Norway, we have good birth permits, which provide security of income for a period after birth, and which secures association with children who come to the world. We have a law to protect against discrimination against both pregnant women and people who want to use the first few months or the first year of their life with the child, as this house wants them to be able to do. I think everyone has to work to counteract discrimination that comes from pregnancy and birth. We must become conscious in society and in working life. Governments must contribute to this through active information work and knowledge dissemination, and through tripartite cooperation in the labour market, with mandatory schemes which have consequences for those who discriminate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e642	Thank you for addressing a very important issue for debate. Yesterday I got a phone call from a young woman. She had completed her education, and she was in work, but she had a hard time getting a steady job. It wasn't the first year; several years in a row she had struggled to get a steady job after finishing school. What was the reason why she called me, and what was the reason for her despair? Well, she and the cohabiter really wanted to try to have a baby. But her case was that she went on monthly contracts, and she asked despair: if they find that I am pregnant, will I get a new contract next month? Don't they not want to give me any more work? In the past, I have been contacted after an article about temporary employment. Then there was a woman who gave feedback that she had chosen to have an abortion, ended her pregnancy, because she was alone and was temporarily employed. She did not dare to bear a child, without safe income. These are real judgements made in a woman's life. I want to strongly warn against a general access to temporary employment, because the consequences will be great for equality from a social point of view, for the lives of people and the assessments made. I miss an impact assessment and a clear analysis from the Council of State and from the government on how temporary jobs will affect equality, and also on discrimination against pregnant women, which is one of the major problems in working life today. The extent of discrimination against pregnant women in the labour market is a cause for concern. That is why I fully agree with the Council of State that a good law is fundamental to combating this, and that it is also necessary to penalise and have a better instrument when discrimination occurs and takes place. I appreciate the clarity shown by the Council of State in this matter. But I don't think it only keeps working on changing attitudes to discrimination when it happens, I think it also has to be working on changing roles and expectations related to gender. Pregnancy discrimination is not only linked to the fact that women bring forth children, it is also linked to the expectation that women will necessarily have longer absences, not only during the leave period, but also when the children are ill or they themselves become ill – an expectation of increased absence from work. If women are regarded as caregivers, while men do not, it is clear that reflections around it will affect who gets the job in an employment process. The distribution of parental leave is just a way of helping to make working life more equal, because women and men are considered to be more equivalent carers and met with expectations of taking on the tasks and absences it entails. The distribution of parental leave is also a way of contributing to a more even distribution of care and unpaid work in the home. I would like to hear the Council of State reflections on how temporary jobs can affect precisely discrimination against pregnant women, and how gender roles and various expectations related to care tasks for women and men can influence this problem, and not least what should be done with the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e657	First of all, I would also like to express my appreciation for the fact that the inter-pellant is raising this debate, which unfortunately concerns many people. There have been a lot of good reflections on this topic, and there are also a lot of people who show that you're concerned about it, in different ways. Then I might have thought that the Prime Minister's party also found reason to participate in the debate, so that we could hear if that party has any views on this topic. I spoke a few years ago with a friend who told her employer that she had just become pregnant, and the employer said: So great! Let's sit down and talk together about how we can help make this the best possible for you. We need such employers, and it's these employers that I think will win the fight for the best minds in the future. Unfortunately, not all employers are like that, and we need a law in the workplace that is there to protect individuals, and also to create a safe environment for families. I feel that when we talk about these things, it becomes clear that, on the part of the Progress Party and the Right, the legislation must be an approximate passive arena, where the supervision is primarily to function and where there are penalties to act as a preventative measure. We can see that, for example. in the major debate on social dumping, where the government is actually taking a number of measures to reinforce the problems of social dumping, and then patching up the wound by strengthening supervision and imposing sanctions. I would like to challenge the Council of State to say something more about what can be done to avoid such cases occurring, in order to help more employers act as the employer I referred to, and to facilitate the possibility of combining work and care. However, the party of the Council of State and the government are actually implementing – including within family and labour policy – a series of measures that will reinforce the problems that the interpellant is trying to address by raising this debate. When a family wants to plan their future, I think most people are very concerned about what framework they can create that contributes to the security of their children. We know that one of the reasons why the birth rate is now falling, especially in southern Europe, is that people simply don't dare have children, because they don't know if they have jobs, they don't know if they can create a safe future for their kids. But also in Norwegian homes, I believe that men and women sit down and talk about how they can contribute to safety, economic predictability, good framework and growth conditions for their children, before going to the step of trying to get pregnant. And then I'm going to assume that many people who experience pressure on the job in relation to overtime, pressure in relation to Sunday work, who may experience a temporary position, or who are not sure if you can expect a nursery place, will think about it several times before going to the step of becoming pregnant, precisely because you are unsure whether all the safe conditions are in place. And then it really does not help for family planning, and for the birth rate in Norway, I believe that the government in the field by region contributes to more uncertainty for Norwegian families – with more use of temporary jobs, with uncertainty around kindergarten, more expensive kindergarten, more Sunday work and more overtime. This will lead to increased uncertainty and poorer family planning opportunities. It's a bad family economy, too, when we know how hard it is to get a loan if you have a temporary position. A situation with extensive use of temporary jobs will also lead to the permanent exclusion of many from the labour market. We've seen that internationally, and we'll see that in Norway as well, and I think pregnant people are particularly hit by this. The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, BLD, is working on an impact assessment of Robert Eriksson's proposal for changes to the Working Environment Act, and I would like to challenge Solvency Horne to say something about why she wants it, and whether she can take an initiative in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e675	I would like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate and have come with different perspectives on this matter. Like the representative of Arild Grande, I am disappointed that the Right has not found time to participate in this debate – it is, after all, the largest government party and should have any views on such an important topic. Then all of us who are here agree that we have a good code, that's just the practice of this code that's not good enough. But it does not help to have a good code if very many of the rules that are around and affect the situation that the individual is in change. It will create uncertainty, which more people have been in. I am pleased that the Council of State says that she will take initiatives for awareness campaigns – we look forward to them. We are anxious to hear about the outcome of the discussions between the social partners and the government on these issues. It is necessary to raise it to that level. I am very much in expectation of the Council of State, because the Council of State is responsible for the issues of gender equality of investigation. I was happy when I saw that the Council of State had sent a letter to the Minister of Labour asking for an impact assessment on equality in relation to the proposal for temporaryity. But I have seen the bill that has come to Stortinget, and there is no trace of the impact assessment on equality in that case. The Council of State then has to get up and use the institute she has to make sure that the consequences are investigated. It is also necessary to consider its own proposals in the light of the gender study guide. It's about the spring quota. This also applies to other matters that are located in your own department. Again: Thank you for a good debate. This is a theme that we're going to have to follow closely in the future, to see how it evolves. It is not a good sign that the birth rate in Norway is falling. We've been proud that we've been on top in Europe, it's not good that this rate goes down. It may be related to the problems they are going to have — both before and after. We have to take that seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e688	As the former State Council, the interpellant is aware that there is a new investigation instruction that gives some leadership, and then I am responsible for highlighting the gender impact, just as the Minister of Finance is responsible for clarifying some of the economic aspects. I have full confidence in the Council of State Robert Eriksson and am very pleased that he has promoted this proposal for the Stortinget, and that it is illuminated. And as the debate that we had earlier today, also shows, gender equality is taken into account in the fact that there are more, including immigrant women, who can try their way into work and gain easier access to work by putting in place a little more flexible temporary jobs. The proposal for temporary employment for up to 12 months could, on a general basis, allow more people with precarious working skills to try their way into work. There are hundreds of thousands of unemployed today outside the labour force, and for many temporary employment could be a stepping stone into the labour market. Today, most women are among those receiving health-related benefits, and they may be able to get into the labour market. Fixed employment shall remain the general rule of the labour market, but temporary employment may be a means of permanent employment and temporary staff will be transferred to permanent employment in Norway relatively quickly. We also know that Denmark has more liberal legislation than we do in this field, but there are no more temporary employees in Denmark than in Norway – on the contrary. We have discussed the protection against discrimination against pregnant women, and the protection against discrimination against pregnant workers applies in the same way to temporary employment. The government has proposed changes to the working time provisions of the Working Environment Act, and within an overall time frame, there is a greater opportunity to adapt working time arrangements for those who work in turn. It can help reduce the transition from part-time work to full-time work — if necessary small job fractions — and strengthen women. In the debate several people have argued that we have a good law, and I am very happy that we have a good law here, but still we have a way to go. Attitudes are important, but also discussions with employee organisations in the context of tripartite cooperation. I can promise the interpellant that it will be a theme at the next meeting. Fathers should also be allowed to take leave, and the exemption scheme is as much for father as it is for mother. But the parental leave scheme exists for children, and therefore it is also good gender equality policy to have a good family policy. Employment, business and entrepreneurship will be important in the gender equality message that we are about to promote, and health as well, but a common law that we are about to propose now will also be involved in and strengthen the protection of discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e705	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e711	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e719	In the course of the debate, one proposal has been put forward, proposal No. 1, from Iselin Nybø on behalf of Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Council asks the Presidency to start work on setting up its own law department on the Stortinget.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e782	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e792	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-29.ana.ud2570e929	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
