ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e80	The representatives of Ingebjørg Amanda Vossken, Lise Christoffersen, Knut Arild Hareide and Hege Haukeland Liadal, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Thore Vestby and Are Health For Hedmark County: Lasse Juliussen For More and Romesdal counties: Mette Hanekamhaug, Steinar Reiten and Geir Inge Lien For Oslo: Prableen Kaur For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Gunhild Berge Stag For Telemark County: Gry-Anette Rekanes Amundsen For South-Trundellag County: Little Harriet Sandaune For Eastfold County: Tage Pettersen and Simen Nord The representative of Knut Storberget is informed that the permit granted for days 1 and 2 June has been withdrawn. – This message is taken into account. From the meeting of the alternate of the Nordland County, Tone-Helen Toften, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Lisbeth Berg-Hansen due to illness. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The third alternate of the Nordland County, Anette Kristine Davidsen, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Anette Kristine Davidsen is present and will take the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the representative of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen on leave from 1 June to 5 June and from the representative of Ms Linda C. Hofstad Helleland on leave from 1 June to 4 June, both for participation in meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO in the United States of America from the High Council on sick leave for the representative Mr Mette Tønder from 1 June and until further notice from the Group of the Progressive Alliance on sick leave for the representative of Mr Tor André Johnsen from 1 June onwards and until further notice from the Group of the Right on leave for the representative Mr Bente Stein Mathisen from 4 to 5 June to attend the meeting of the Baltic Assembly on behalf of the Nordic Council in Lithuania, These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first representative of the Nordland County, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget on Monday 1 June under the authority of Jan Arild Ellingsen, for welfare reasons. From the first representative of the Sør-Trøndelag County, Torhild Aarbergsbotten, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in Stortinget from 1 June to 4 June under the authority of the representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Kjartan Berland and Thore VestbyFor Hedmark County: Hege JensenFor Nordland County: Greta Johanne Solfall and Dagfinn Henrik OlsenFor Sør-Trøndelag County: Marvin Wiseth
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e235	Kjartan Berland, Hege Jensen, Greta Johanne Solfall and Marvin Wiseth are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e243	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Stortinget derogate from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 59 of the Stortingen Rules of Procedure and vote after the cases are closed. 1 to 4 on the current map has been completed and then total voting after case No. 5-9 at the end of today's meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e259	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e273	As stated in the Church Agreement, which was concluded on 10 April 2008, it was agreed that a process should be initiated in which the joint objective of the parties was that the appointment of bishops and prosthetics should be transferred from the Council of Churches to a church body such as the Church Meeting or the Council of Bishops. In cooperation with the Norwegian Church, a democratic reform was to be carried out so that the church's organs were given a stronger democratic legitimacy and anchoring with the members of the church. The church agreement stated that essential elements of the state church system were to be continued by the Norwegian Church still having a separate anchor in the Constitutional Act § 16 that the Norwegian Church should continue to be regulated by its own church law and be a separate legal entity. The State shall continue to ensure that the municipalities have a legal obligation to finance the activities of the local church, and the State shall continue to pay and assume the responsibilities of the employer for bishops, pros, priests and other church employees who are not paid by the municipalities. Although the agreement was made, it does not prevent the parties from promoting their own primary constitutional proposals, as is also being done here – as is the proposal under consideration today. Today’s proposal involves a complete distinction between state and church. A modern state should, in the opinion of the proposers, have a constitution which ensures equal and fair treatment of all its inhabitants, regardless of belief or outlook on life. The remaining provisions of the Basic Law on relations between the State and the Norwegian Church are, in the view of the proposers, incompatible with a State which is to be neutral in terms of its beliefs and outlook on life. Choosing faith and view of life are personal choices, and the state should therefore not be linked to a particular religion. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre, recommend that the proposal be rejected. The cultural heritage has been embossing the country for more than a thousand years and, in the view of these parties, should still be the basis for the value of the nation, and the majority believe that the Norwegian Church should still have a separate anchor in the Constitution. In the majority’s view, this does not conflict with the fact that all residents of the country are guaranteed equal and fair treatment regardless of belief and outlook on life. That is why the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party recommend that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e284	I refer to what the case rapporteur, the representative Svendsen, has just said, and in its content, it is comprehensive of what is also the principle view of the Workers' Party in this matter. Nevertheless, I would say that the relationship between the Church and the State is such a central issue for the Norwegian community, that I will also express some opinions in addition to what the rapporteur has expressed. The Norwegian Church, as we know it, has been an important part of our social development in many ways. In the long term, it has been in a very positive sense, but it has also not always been a driver of equivalency and social protection, nor always on the part of the weak. Nevertheless, we must be able to state today that the Norwegian Church, through its activities, is of great importance to the Norwegian population. It can therefore be said that the Church is a people’s church with very deep roots in Norway. The proposals we are discussing today – as the rapporteur has explained – mean a complete distinction between the Church and the State, as the proposals are. In my view, the place and authority of the Church and the Workers' Party depend on a connection with the State. A full release will weaken the position and legitimacy. The church settlement well balances the Church's need for independence and for a sensible and forward-looking church with a broad population boom. It is the Christian and humanist who has shaped our cultural heritage and the cultural development of the entire history of Norway. This must continue to be the basis for the development of society and the basis for justice and democracy. The Constitution has always been fundamental — so far — to the development of the same values. The labour movement has, in its history, taken many social battles for justice and equality in Norwegian society. In recent times, the Church has been a part of this development. The Constitution has been a platform and a prerequisite for development, in addition to the agreement that exists here in Stortinget, which makes it natural to continue to attach the Church's place to the Constitution in Norway. There is a significant question whether this hinders other beliefs. We have an opposite view. The Norwegian society is characterized by religious diversity, more than ever. It shows that the agreement reached takes the necessary into account. The fact that the king, as Norway's head of state, is to have a duty of confession follows as a natural consequence of the place and arrangement of the Norwegian Church that the Constitution currently provides for. On this basis, the Labour Party will vote against the proposals we are considering on this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e301	The Church and the Christian-Humanist cultural heritage have been embossing the country for more than 1,000 years. This should still be the value base of the nation of Norway. The Christian People's Party believes that the Norwegian Church should continue to have a separate anchor in the Constitution, and this does not conflict with the fact that all citizens of the country should be guaranteed equal treatment and fair treatment regardless of belief and outlook on life. That is why I am pleased that the majority of the committee and the majority of the majority of the majority remain on that line and still believe this. The Christian ethics and cultural heritage is an important historical heritage and represents a common value for Norwegian society. Christianity characterizes our human vision, our values, our laws, our history and our culture. This is still to be an important part of the core wall of Norwegian society. A new arrangement of the Church-State relationship implies at the same time that these values are retained in the Constitution. It was historically important for our future religious policy that a unanimous increase in its time gathered to change the Constitution, so that the political overarching of the Norwegian Church was removed, that support for the Church of Nations and other religious and life-view societies was constitutionalized, and that it was established that the basis of value remains our Christian and humanistic heritage. At the same time, religious freedom was established, along with respect for human rights. The political agreement that was then established is an important foundation in the religious policy of the future. At the same time, it is important that Norwegian society is an open democracy, which should not be linked to a particular belief. But it is equally important that we have a clear value anchoring in the Norwegian Constitution today. A total increase was and agrees that we should also have a value base in the new Constitution – as it says: «The basis of values remains our Christian and humanistic heritage». The right to believe is one of our most fundamental human rights. Respect for freedom of faith means that we have to endure the fact that religious and life-viewing societies have a set of values and a teaching that goes against the flow. In many ways, there's a kind of lacmus test on the tolerant society. The proposers believe that belief and view of life are personal choices, and therefore the State should not be linked to a religion. Yes, faith and vision of life are personal choices – I agree – but I do not agree that there is any contradiction between linking to our tradition and our 1000-year-long cultural history while at the same time safeguarding the personal freedom to choose their faith. It is a very central value in a society to have freedom of belief – that we have freedom so that everyone can practice their faith both in everyday life and in celebrations. That is precisely why – yes, precisely because of this – religion must have a place in the people’s most important common document, the Constitution. And that's exactly why we're going to have at the same time a anchor in what is our historical and cultural heritage, which has been inherited for centuries in our nation. Let me put it this way: the state must ensure freedom of belief, support must continue to be given to the Norwegian Church and other religious and life-view societies, and it must be facilitated so that faith-based activities can really make a social effort in society. We are to contribute to knowledge of religion and the Christian cultural heritage through schoolwork, teacher training and belief training in society itself. And not least: we are going to defend an open, democratic society based on diversity and tolerance, where religion must also be the subject of debate, but not a society that insists on freedom of belief being violated. With the certainty of these values and with an active religious policy, it is natural that central values, such as our Christian and humanistic heritage, are reflected in the Constitution by the provisions that are there. The constitutional changes made by Stortinget in the previous period were historical. The Constitutional Value Paragraph states that Norway should remain a Christian country, while the Human-Ethical Federation lost the fight for Norway’s value base. For the first time, the Constitution established that the State is based on the Christian heritage. According to the 2008 State Church Agreement, the legislative changes adopted at that time will also ensure that the Norwegian Church is governed by the women and men elected by the members of the Church themselves – and not by the Minister of Church and Government. It's about freedom of faith and democracy. The Christian People's Party was pleased that His Majesty the King still wanted to belong to the Evangelical Lutheran Church, which was founded as the Church of Norway's people. It was a saying that all parties on the Stortinget rejected the demands of the Human-Ethical Federation to remove Christianity from the Constitution. I think it is important and worth noting that the Greatness, by rejecting the present proposal, once again confirms that Christianity embodies our human vision, our values, our laws, our history and our culture. I refer you to the rapporteur's examination of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e322	The Left and SV are in principle for a distinction between State and Church, and the two parties have also received support from the Greens for that position in the Committee's proceedings. This applies to Sections 2, 4 and 16 of the Constitution. The background to today’s proposals from the SV and the Left is their historical position, passed through what has been said in the church settlement of 10 April 2008 and subsequent deliberations, a magnificence where the appointment of bishops was transferred to church organs by the Church Council of State. This occurred after a broad consultation, and in that hearing there was overwhelming support for maintaining the state church system as it was. It is not correct, as the previous speaker said, that the decisions in the Grand Duchy were unanimous. There were three votes against the appointment of bishops to be transferred from the church council to church organs, and I was one of them, and I am proud of that. There were also two others from the Center Party who voted in the same way. It was then, as now, not possible to argue in principle for the state church system, seafaringly, but it was a very good basis to argue from the facts, namely that the Norwegian church should be an open church of the people, a people's church also for the silent majority of society, which is a member of that church community. That's something I'd like to stress, because this silent majority, which does not express itself so strongly in such questions, is an incredibly valuable jewel in Norwegian society. It contributes to the setting of norms and inspires the formation of Norwegian society in terms of the difficult ethical choices that come up many times. I am therefore pleased that there is a broad majority in order not to go further in separating the Norwegian Church from the State, and that the Norwegian Church is still to have a separate anchor in the Constitution § 16 that the Norwegian Church is still to be regulated by its own church law and is a separate legal entity, that the State is to continue to ensure that the municipalities have a statutory obligation to finance the local activities of the Norwegian Church, and that the State continues to pay and discharge the employer's responsibility for bishops, proselytes, priests and other church employees who are not paid by the municipalities. It is essential for the view of the Central Party on the Norwegian Church that there is an economic equal treatment of all religious communities, and that for the vast majority of people, who are soccers to the Norwegian Church, there should be no economic excesses in actions such as: baptism, wedding and death. This is essential for us to keep the traditions we have and the valuable cultural foundation, on a religious basis, which we are talking about here. Many people are talking about a people's church with very deep roots here in the country, and that's right. The Central Party believes that the Norwegian Church should have a clear voice in the future in demanding issues of an ethical nature, and that at the same time it should be based not only on roots but also on wings, in the sense that it should be alive on the basis of the faith society – and I would stress it: on the basis of the faith society – in the age in which we live. It's a vital force for a living people's church. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am pleased that a broad majority want the Norwegian Church to still have a separate anchor in the Constitution, and that it should help to ensure that all citizens of the country are treated equally and fairly regardless of their beliefs and beliefs. It's a principle position that the Center Party has.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e339	I will first refer to the Basic Law Section 2 where the value basis is shown. There is no reason to be concerned about it, as the representatives of Gruvan and Kolberg have said. The Greens have proposed the repeal of Section 4 of the Constitution and the amendment of Section 16. Choosing faith and view of life is a personal choice, and the Left believes that the task of the State is to ensure freedom of expression as a fundamental value and right. The State and other public institutions shall, in the name of tolerance, be impartial and not attached to a particular religion. It is from this basic point of view that the Left finds a distinction between state and church in principle important. The left considers that today's Section 4 on the king's obligation to confess, and existing Section 16 that the Norwegian Church should be "supported as such by the State", have no place in the Constitution. In our view, these provisions are incompatible with a state's neutrality of belief and outlook on life. Therefore, we propose to repeal Section 4, which relates to the king's obligation of confession, and to make amendments to Section 16. I see here that the government parties, along with the Workers' Party, do not want to make this distinction between state and church. I think that's very bad. If you put the obligation of confession at the head, you can almost say that there is only one person in Norway who at any time will not be able to have a religion other than that set out in the Constitution. So in reality, we do not leave to the king himself what the king wants to believe, whether he wants to believe in a Christian god, a Muslim god, Buddha, Shiva, or whether he wants to be an atheist. There he really doesn't have a choice. That's kind of weird. Not only for this king, but for all future kings, the Constitution states that the king who sits at all times shall confess to the Evangelical Lutheran religion. I think it's very strange to tie up all future generations equal to the current king. Forcing the king to confess to a religion can quickly build under – yes, it is the general criticism that is being presented everywhere in the world against religion and lack of religious freedom, not least the pressure to show the world that one has religion, even if one does not have a religion – the false maintenance of religious faith, even if one does not really have a religious faith. It seems to me that this magnification chooses not to include a final settlement. All over the world, people are being persecuted because of their faith – their different faith, their lack of faith. I haven't been here for so long at Stortinget, but others, who have been here before, say that when you travel around the world, you meet a lot of people in other countries high up in the system that refers to the Norwegian Constitution and say they like the Norwegian Constitution very much, because it says that the king decides everything. So you don't quite understand that even though the Basic Law says that the king decides everything, it's not the king who decides everything, but they take it for their own power together with one person. This could be said that once we have had a modernisation of the Constitution, we should take a full step and also make the changes to the Constitution, so that it was clear who really decides what in Norway, and that not everything was referred back to the King. The point of saying this is that what we do here in Norway is also used in other countries as an example, and it is referred to. When one has a lack of religious freedom in other countries, where there is no equivalent distinction between state and church, thus our constitution and our way of organizing us will be used as an example of maintaining this lack of distinction between state and religion, and in many countries it is also religion that precedes, and not man-made laws. As regards freedom of religion under pressure: ISIL is just a last example of people being killed in Iraq and Syria because they have a different religion, or another belief within a religion, and refuses to cling and confess to a particular direction within a religion. In Pakistan, from which my parents emigrated, we know that there are frequent attacks on Christian minorities in the country, churches being burned, people being thrown alive into the fire because they have committed so-called blasphemous acts against the country's religion. Ahmadiyyas are under pressure and are being persecuted in Pakistan too. In Iran, we know that if you convert, you will be able to experience the death penalty. In Myanmar, Burma, to which Norway has had a close and long relationship and contributed to the establishment of democracy in – at least in the best way – we now see how the rohingya Muslims, a small minority, are drifting away from their own country because they belong to a religion other than that of the country’s ‘approved religion’. In China, the world’s largest country in terms of population, both Muslims and Buddhists, some sects within Buddhism, are under pressure. And in India, which is also a large country of population, we also see very many minority religions, including Muslims, who live under pressure under Hindu nationalism. A study conducted by Pew Research Center in 2015 shows that 43 pst. of the countries of the world – the whole 43 pst. of all countries in the world — with great religious limitations. 43 pst. is a very large number of people. And 77 pst. is a alarmingly high number, if you think about that 77 pst. of the entire world's population, nearly 5.6 billion people, live in countries with great restrictions on religious freedom. Here we could appear as a country that took a full step and made this very distinction between state and church, and that we could allow the state head, and not least the Constitution, to have a religion that he himself could determine, and nothing the state has decided in the form of the constitution that he must confess to, in order to appear neutral for the sake of the world is important to Norway. Norway could have taken a full step here, but we don't. I think it's sad. I think it's sad that the Workers' Party couldn't be part of such a -- I'll almost call it a liberation struggle -- so that one got a full distinction between state and church and religion, and not least that it should always be able to choose its own religion itself -- have a religion / don't have a religion. In any case, I would assume that they agree with me, but that there is something else that makes them not want to take this step fully, perhaps because it is a symbolic hard step to take, but I hope they would do it anyway. I have referred to Section 2 and there is evidence to the extent of the value base, and I believe that repealing Section 4 and amending Section 16 would not have rocked what Norway stands for as a nation. On Wednesday, the Stortinget founded its religious freedom group, and all parties on the Stortinget took the initiative. I'm just going to finish by referring to the Nål Harvest Measurement, which was one of the openings of the conference. He explained how religious freedom in the world, everywhere, is under pressure. He also gave some examples here in Norway. We have KRLE, and we have some challenges here in Norway too, but they appear to be a little small in relation to the challenges that are out there. On a question from Ropstad about what this looks like now, he could briefly conclude that there will be more and more religion and less and less freedom in the world. It's a little sad, because here we could have helped send a good signal out of Norway. We could go ahead as a good example to follow the world by making the distinction between state and church, state and religion, so that religion cannot determine how the state governs itself. We could have done that, but I find that the government parties together with the Workers' Party do not choose to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e369	Should the representative address the proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e372	I refer to the proposal for the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e377	The representative Abid Q. Raja has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e380	It's open-minded, and I'll basically call it a historical fact, that the Christian and humanistic cultural heritage is a very central part of the tradition and history of Norway and what has shaped the emergence of the values that Norway is building on today. I also want to say that it is a fact that we have an Evangelical Lutheran church, which is the central one in prison and has our state church in Norway until recently. If it's not a fact, at least many of us will say that it's also a church of people, as it's referred to in the Constitution. What we're going to do today is not to edit a history book, but to enter what the Constitution for the future should be, what it should express. Then I think that the majority makes a clear mistake – as they will vote later today, and as it happens in the setting. The greatest error is made quite openly in the most fundamental paragraph, namely Section 2, because either one likes it or not, there are relatively many people in Norway who do not feel that the Christian cultural heritage is part of their values. All we know about the future is that there's going to be more of them. There's hardly anything in society that everyone's in. I'm among those who think that when you write a constitution, you can't assume what they're all about, but what one will require everyone to join. For this reason, I would say that one has to demand from everyone in Norway that one stands behind democracy. I'm a hundred percent united in that. And not only that: I thought it was hugely important, and I know that all the parties in the hall thought it was. The same could have been said about human rights, even though we have second discussions about what they are. But is it reasonable to say that the Constitution of Norway – for absolutely everyone in Norway – will build on the Christian cultural heritage, even for those who are not part of him and who are not linked to him? What I mean is, in fact, completely wrong and not possible to justify reasonably and in principle unless one thinks that inheritance is superior in the future to another and unless one thinks he is superior in different ways. The acidiest thing about this is to invite the representatives to a little thought experiment: if one moves to another country, and the Constitution that was to build on the Islamic and humanist cultural heritage, would the representatives feel included, by expressing their own values? I wouldn't feel included if it stood that way, and I think many others wouldn't feel included in it. I think, in order to be completely honest, that the logical consequence of this is that an innermost must acknowledge that everyone in Norway is not included according to what is stated in Section 2 today. In fact, the views of life and the religions in the world have some in common, there are some core values that are expressed in almost all aspects of life. I want to use a good example, as we know from the Christian heritage – from the Bible – that one wants others to act against another, one must also do to others. This is an ethical idea that is expressed in almost every vision of life and religion we know in the world. There are common features and values, often referred to as humanism or common values that are expressed and that could discuss building on. But when a tie this to a intended direction of trust, it won't be possible to let everyone be part of it. I am aware that we have a great deal of religious freedom and freedom of belief and life in Norway despite the fact that the sentence is as she does in Section 2 of the Constitution. Therefore, the most important thing is the real battles, all those who are concerned with the actual content of our school, how one practices the freedom of belief and of life, etc. But it's still a cross of thought that when you first decide what the Constitution will look like, it adopts it in a way that requires an explanation and deepening. It's not exactly the way it's expressed. I wasn't going to deal with this, but the representative Raja kept a very good post, which I totally agreed on. But it's very hard to understand the conclusion in the vote of his party on the basis of that post. I may not have been able to understand that the Left will still vote differently than the comments made in Section 2, because absolutely everything the representative Raja said was a coherent long and very good line of arguments that we are forced to remove the reference to the Christian and humanistic cultural heritage in Section 2 and actually have a constitution that is such that she does not require an extra explanation when he wandered around the world at a meeting, and which he certainly does with bravour. The same applies to the Greens/Greens/EFA. I find it strange that they have the voice they have on this question, and I see in a meeting an explanation. So short: § 4 is, in my opinion, least important. And a few words about § 16: I agree that the Norwegian Church should be an open church. These include: Because I'm a member. If I had not experienced it this way, I would have signed out. But that's not how I feel at all. It's the task of the people to make sure that the people's church is a people's church, that's not the task of the state. That's, as I understand it, the whole core idea that we're no longer going to have a state church. The State shall provide economic, non-discrimination and a number of other things to all the life and threat communities. But church itself, as for all other views of life and all ideas, must ensure that it continues to be broad, popular and open. We are Members who have to take the fight for it. The Constitution, which should apply to everyone in Norway whether or not you are a member of a faith society, a member of the Norwegian Church, must rise above this. I just want to finish by making the representative Lundtigen's very precise words to my own: "It was then, as he said, that it was now" – as he said – "not possible to argue in principle for the state church system." – "Själsag" as he added.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e410	Would the representative, Mr Solhell, like to make suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e414	I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e419	Then the representative, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e422	I drew myself to the end of the debate, because I wanted to hear how the proposers behind this proposal argued, and since we got some visits about how sad it was that we still stand by the Constitution we have, I think we might be able to mark some positions – first of all, my own position. I have initially respect and understanding for those who promote such a proposal. It is not difficult to understand, based on a more limited understanding of what legislation is for. I also belong to those who say in other contexts that we cannot regulate people's attitudes directly. That's why I'm usually not a big fan of purpose paragraphs, except as an interpretative tool when you come to the assessment of the individual paragraphs. But what kind of society we have, and what kind of values we live after in everyday life, has less connection with the Grand Britain's legislative activities and more with what we consider to be important values in human relations, and on which we also build civil society. It depends to a large extent on the standards that parents transfer to those they are responsible for by the next generation — the values and attitudes of those who are role models. That's what it's called to internalize norms. Nevertheless, I have to say that in the way it is argued, a person does not see the context in which our determination lies, and one does not recognize the great force represented by the Church of Norway, both at its inception and at the fact that it is an important part of our religious life. Then it gets to be that you could historically certainly simulate that you were without past and would certainly not write a constitution this way today, but it's a historical fact -- it's more than a historical fact; it's also a cultural fact -- that without Christianity we would have a rather different society than what we have. I think we should be able to admit that. Now it must be said that it is not in the vicinity of the representative Raja, that this should be a signal to send to regimes that have to be characterized as theocratic rather than as democracies, where one really demands that individuals should submit not only to a religiously dominant direction, but that the whole political life is subordinate, for example. The achievement. So I have to say that it's almost an expression of a lack of respect for what we ourselves have achieved in our society, how much of the common good that has gone into and become part of natural law, stems from the influence of the Church, and one of the happiest things is actually Thomas Aquinas, who has managed to reconcile the aristotle of nature, the beginning of natural science, with the Bible. It has, among other things, laid the groundwork for open discussions in the open society, where claiming other opinions has become part of our way of being, part of our set of values. I'm not going to carry these reasoning too far, just saying that a scientist as well-recognized as Jürgen Habermas, who himself has no religious position, says that precisely humanism is indebted to Christianity for the image it has put in our societies. Then I think we're shooting a little bit over the goal. If it is that we should now use our power to remove any memory of the Christian cultural heritage from our constitution, I don't think it's dressed. And this doesn't happen without a context either, because there are many people who wonder if this society is now on its way into a society that doesn't recognise religious life or metaphysical notions as close and concrete to those who share them, like others. Then I believe that it would actually be a bad signal to send if we were now to actively eliminate those memories, that reference, to our value base, which would mean going into the proposals of the proposers. Therefore, I would also like to say that there are perhaps many good reasons to reject the constitution proposal – I think I have been concerned with the most important ones. Another thing is that we also have a relatively new political agreement, a church settlement, which is no more than seven years old, where it would also be a breach of the prerequisites not to promote other constitutional proposals – because it has the parties and representatives fully entitled to do so – but it would have been somewhat near to withdrawing the carpet under the important common understanding gained through the church settlement, which is so new in this context, so that we could make the adjustments at the previous crossroads as was done in the Constitution. We will therefore not support the amendments contained in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e437	The Constitution should reflect Norway's most important values and our most basic principles for the relationship between individuals and the state of our society. The Constitution will just provide the framework that combines how a modern state is to be governed today and tomorrow, with the historical and symbolic basis that we have with us, and that we use to design the state in a new era. What is stated in the Constitution must have broad support for society. The Basic Law is obviously not a place for the particularities of parties, and fortunately it is also agreed by the Monitoring Committee. But we have some disagreements about what are the fundamental values of society, and how it should be expressed in the Constitution. For the Green Party, freedom of religion and equality is a fundamental value, and we are pleased that we have a society in which there is a broad consensus that it should be expressed strongly in all areas. Our diversity, which is growing, we must be happy, proud of, and we must cultivate it. So it's going to be equal to-- let's say it's going to be equal to-- let's say it's going to be equal to-- let's say it's going to be equal to-- let's say it's going to be equal to-- let's say it's going to be equal to-- let's say it's going to be equal to-- let's say it's going to be equal to-- let's see. expression that the school’s purpose paragraph and school education should be life-seeker, or rather religiously neutral. That is why, of course, the Greens are in favour of cancelling today's section 4 on the king's obligation to confess, because in our time and in our times, we cannot have a claim that a multicultural and multi-religious state should have to confess to one particular religion. We are also in favour of amending the existing section 16 that the Norwegian Church should be ‘supported as such by the State’, as it says, to the proposal from the Left that all religious and life views should be supported on the same line. These are changes that are a natural consequence of the evolution of our societies, and it is above all a natural consequence of the sentence just ahead of the Constitution, which says: «All inhabitants of the kingdom have free religious practices.» I find it difficult to understand a argument that does not give this as a conclusion. So times change. Norway is not the same as it was in 1814. But Norway's history has not changed. The basis, the historical and political basis on which we have developed this society has not changed. It evolves, but history is known, history is important, and history is crucial to recognize. That's why, as the representative Solhell rightly pointed out in his excellent statement, it's a fact that Norway is based on a Christian and humanistic heritage, and it's a fact that it's reflected in our history, our culture and our reference base in all sorts of areas. Very much of being Norwegian is to have this basis. So the question is, are we going to remove it because Norway is today a much more multicultural society than it was when this part of the Constitution was originally formulated? Once again, I don't understand a logic that says that, and above all, I don't understand the example of Bård Vegar Solhjell's representative of how he would feel in a country that has a Muslim history or a Buddhist history, and that referred to it in his constitution, that it would lead to the representative Solhjell or I felt less welcome in that society. It's a completely foreign thought. I have lived in a number of countries like this, like everyone else, and I feel no less welcome about the fact that Thailand or Iran has the history and cultural basis that those countries have – rather the opposite. Of course, it falls to me to relate to the fact. That's why the Green Party is going in to keep the natural reference to the fact that our country is based on a Christian and humanistic heritage, no matter what you might think of it. So today, the conclusion – among other things – is that we choose to go in for a change to the Constitution that underlines that we are a multicultural and multireligious society. For the sake of the representative Skei Grande, I shall now set the line.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e450	That was the voice of the Green Party's representative, and it might be a revised budget. What made me want to speak in this debate was a bit of the vocabulary, especially from the Christian People's Party representative. Some of us were there seven years ago, when the church agreement was made. It was a great political effort. It was an important grip for something that left has been concerned with for a long time, namely, separating church from state. We do that because it's basically right, but we also do it out of love for the Church, because we think it has enough strength in itself and doesn't need the state. Rather, on the contrary, the State has been involved in creating the passive participation in Kirka, as the representative Lundtigen pointed out. It has had greater power, if you were happy in the Church, to engage in politics than it has been to engage in the Church. As a dedicated church member, I had a greater influence on who would become my bishop in Oslo by being a political activist and a member of the Stortinge than by being a member of the Old Town Council. I thought that was wrong. Now we've started a process where power is moved back to Church. It's going to lead to a more active church membership. But it's not possible to say that people are not active, so we can't give them power. That's what dictators have said before, and that's a little bit of the kind of argument you use when you leave off getting to a broad people's church with a broad popular commitment. With that process, no one was supposed to be winners and losers. When you refer to the fact that one community of life has lost all the time, I react to it very much. The goal of all of us who sat here when this church settlement was made was just to create a constitution for everyone, where no one lost, where no religious community was losers in the discussion that was. Then they agreed on some common sound channels, and Section 2 is a typical common sound base that was agreed upon. It says something about the history and values behind it, which I don't see as a favorite of one religious community, but which says something about the country's history. Therefore, the Left does not vote for Section 2, there is a reference framework that has nothing to do with favoring one religious community in front of another. No one won that fight. It's a completely different approach you've chosen in word use. Nevertheless, after going through that process, there are some things that remain, and that's what the Left has put forward now, and I think we're going to get through, as we've done in all the other constitutional reforms. Some took 5, 10 and 15 years to complete, and some took it 100 years to complete. It has been argued that there has been no strong desire from the King to be deprived of his duty to belong to a religious community, but we shall adopt principles, we shall adopt principles that will hold. If it's Christian Frederik standing outside here, or if it's Princess Ingrid who's going to take care of that role, it's the principle approach we're going to have. Then we have to assume that the position and legitimacy of our Church is going to be able to sail. If there is a basis for having the power that it wants in society, it will be able to exercise it as strongly as they want. But the last remnants of the state/church think I'm still here now, and I believe that the Storting should have used the opportunity to do the last cleanups that we didn't get when we made a church settlement seven years ago. But the Left is going to promote this again, and we're going to have a debate in four years' time. And sail if there's not so many of us that promoted the proposal initially, which is here now, I'm going to make sure that some of those that promote it again, are going to be here again in four years, when we probably have the debate again. To think that we're going to make a constitution where some religious communities win over other religious communities, or that we're going to make a constitution that doesn't stand in principle in relation to the cultural heritage we have, or that we're going to make a constitution to favor religious communities because we don't have the faith that it's going to be able to build democratic structures that make their legitimacy right in relation to the impact they have on the peoples, I think I'm a little strange approach. But we're still going to promote our proposals – over and over again – and once we're going to have a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e463	It was the posts of the representatives from the left that made me ask for the word again. First to the representative Skei Grande, who gave the impression that those who are active in the Norwegian Church have a very modest power in the appointment of bishops: however, the system of church councils, which has now fallen away, was just so that it was the candidates who had the greatest uprising in the Norwegian Church, the church council would choose from. Therefore, giving the impression that engaging in community work and selecting future bishops does not imply that the active member had power, in my opinion, wrong. Otherwise, it was primarily the representative Raja who inspired me. The representative Raja said something very important about international developments: more and more religion and less freedom of expression. It's, for the Center Party and me, very central. There is something that concerns not only societies that do not enter the western sphere — to put it that way — but also Western countries. In my opinion, the United States is a clear example of this: more and more religion and less freedom of expression. So mariner-knowing I think we should be. In Norway, we have not developed that tradition. There's a lot of reasons for that, but in the opinion of the Center Party, not least the way our church system has been practiced, one of the reasons we've had a much happier development. I was in the Marine Church in New York last fall, and there I met a Northman with a lot of experience from North Africa who gave me something to think about. He said it something like this: it's good to go to a church that doesn't have much power over political decisions. It gives cause for reflection. The fact that the link between religious and life-sight societies and political power is not so strong in Norway, so that there is no more and more religion and less and less freedom of expression, is to those degrees a strength. According to the Central Party's assessment, one of the reasons for this force is that we have had the inclusive Norwegian open church, and that's a crucial argument for the Center Party – a people's church for the many, who, on religious grounds, don't say it so loud, but who try to practice their faith in everyday life. In principle, and as I said quite openly, I understand the proposal. I respect it. I even go so far here that I say that I cannot in principle argue for a state church arrangement, in principle argue for the paragraphs that are here. But it's more important than principles, and it's practice. History has shown so many times that ideologies and principles can lead to misery. It is the practice that is crucial to our positions. This is why we place a decisive emphasis on the ability of people to practice their religious practices in Norway, and that it is the most important thing. The Church of State gave good results for all congregations. So it's the practice, the reality of what's happening in everyday life, that's most important -- the open, inclusive people's church. I would like to warn you again that the silent jewel among the members of the Norwegian Church does not know each other at home, because the Norwegian Church becomes for the learned. And to me, who has great respect for Hans Nielsen Hauge and the Haugians, it's important to say exactly what I'm saying now, that through a consciousness here, not only with those who are theoretically engaged, but also with the many who are practically engaged in this, we guarantee security on our own basis of value. My view is that self-valued security is the most important basis for tolerance to other religious and life views.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e474	Stepe Skei Grande has asked for the floor in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e477	The representative shows great contempt for principles. I do, too – when there are wrong principles, which lead to wrong practices. But I'm not going to go into it any further. The cornerstone of the old electoral system in Kirka – that it was more democratic – seems quite strange to me. When I was a member of the Old Town congregation and it was to be elected bishop in Oslo, any prost at Gjøvik could have one vote, while as a member of the Old Town Council I had an eighth vote when I was to choose the bishop who would be my top spiritual leader in a region. Why does the representative think it much better that politicians sit and decide who to be religious leaders, that politicians sit and assess what to be the values on which a democratic religious society has otherwise wanted to build?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e486	It was a rather special line with quite special statements – that I have shown contempt for principles. I tried to get the exact opposite. I tried to show respect for principles, while in this case there are also questions about what is reality, what is practice. I have even more respect for it, because it shows how the principles are practiced, and that's what's important to us as fellow humans. Then there is the question of how the former appointment of bishops in the Church Council of State functioned. It worked, it gave a good result – it gave a very good result – it led to a college among the bishops of the Norwegian Church that reflected what was flow in the people, it led to a vitality, it led to an innovation, it led to a formation that gave very good results. And why change what gives good results?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e493	So that means that the representative Lundtigen thinks it's good to have a church with passive members, where you don't participate in elections, where it's hard to recruit people to elected positions because power is elsewhere. People aren't stupid. They use their energy where they get the opportunity to be involved and influence. We've had a people's church in Norway that's engaged very little. It's been a part of undermining the Church. For those of us who are happy in the Church, and who want a strong people's church, a broad, popular commitment itself is the key to getting it to. The old electoral systems were involved in passivating people because hardly anyone participated in elections, it was very difficult to recruit elected representatives in the Church, and this was the electoral system that laid the foundation for. This helped to deconstruct the broad people's church, which many of us were busy getting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e500	I'm very pleased with this exchange of lines. Finally, we got a little bit further in the discussion. When the Central Party stands for an open, inclusive people's church, it's because we're happy with the passive members of the Norwegian Church as well. An open, inclusive people's church without passive members is not, in the opinion of the Center Party, an open, inclusive people's church. In view of the fact that the passive members are less – what to say – religious in practice than the active ones, I refer only to Hauge, Hauge, who was arrested in West Fossen on 24 October 1804 and placed ten years in custody in Akershus because he had a statement, namely that priests should also be honest. We're going to have a combination of the engaged and those who practice their faith without showing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e510	His Nielsen Hauge's tradition was just to get people out of the inaction, just that people weren't going to sit and be the tame majority, who were just going to accept the authorities, just talking the management against, being active, being part of and creating their own creeds, values of faith, and being part of and developing the church's. That was Hans Nielsen Hauge's tradition. He had no dream of a church with passive members that politicians sat and rushed. So I think the representative has a very strange interpretation of Hans Nielsen's mission, of the mision of the people's church, and of the dream of a church with passive members.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e515	This is glittering. It's brilliant that we're getting a deeper debate, so maybe we can get a deeper debate about what caused Hans Nielsen Hauge to be able to influence the Norwegian community over the course of eight years, so to speak, to the degrees that his movement did. It wasn't the religious that was the main cause of Hauge's great commitment and enthusiasm; it was knowledge, it was honesty, it was business and building things. Hauge was to the degrees a representative of the people most, those who went behind the plow, or those who were blacksmiths, and that's the tradition in which the Center Party stands. It's the open, inclusive people's church, those who don't talk so loud about it, but who practice it, those who try to practice the ten commandments. Well we're going to have those that know the writing, but it's not just to know, it's also to practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e522	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e525	To the last little round: there have been many good contributions in this debate in general, but I thought the post of the representative Lundteg was consistent and good and perhaps the best defense for the plural here. It's basically not possible to justify, but if one has something in practice that will achieve, I can understand it. So until what I draw me for. Like Trine Skei Grande, I think we'll win in the end, even though I'm afraid it might take a long time. It's worth noting that in little Norway we're becoming more secular, but a large demographic analysis of how religion and life views will evolve in half a century's perspective was recently published. It is worth seeing that the part secular in the world after their best estimates will go down, that the religion that will grow the most is Islam, and that several other religions will grow in addition. So the global image is probably a little bit different than what you can believe when you're in the debate here at home. As short as § 2 and the discussion around it, as, among other things, Mr Tetzschner, Mr Skei Grande and Mr Hansson were present. I tried to emphasize as strongly as I could at the beginning of my post, so we shouldn't get that discussion, that I think there is no doubt that the Christian and humanistic heritage has been a very central force in the development of what we have, in history and in tradition, and that this legacy is still part of the society of which we are part. I thought it was important in my day-to-day life to recognise it. It's just that it's not what Section 2 says – that this is an important story or a tradition we're going to take care of. I'm going to read exactly what's in that sentence. It says: «The basis of values remains our Christian and humanistic heritage.» So the sentence is pointing forward: it says "stay" and it indicates that what was going to be. In a society, and with a reform that has come about, and that there has been broad agreement because Norway is gradually becoming not a completely different country, but a lot of what we were, and a lot of new too, we establish that the value base, on the other hand, it remains the same as it was. What I think is completely wrong is that it should be. So another argument, none of them used. One often hears that, yes, that's how in the future there must also be one of our values, together with others. I myself tried to spend some time on it in my post and say that many views of life and religions have common features. But it doesn't say that it's going to be one of our values, along with other things. It says: «The basis of values remains our Christian and humanistic heritage.» I can understand that they think it should be what Norway should build on – cf. e.g. The representative, Mr Tetzschner’s good and informed contributions – is in favour of it, but it is much harder to understand that the Greens and the Greens, on the basis of what they otherwise say in their speeches, may in fact think that this is the exact basis on which Norway should build, and only that, which one really must understand so that what is in that paragraph should remain the ‘remain’ basis of value. It's hard to understand, I think, because it's so obvious, to me at least, that the most important of these three paragraphs is Section 2, because it's about what the nation itself, the state, is built on. § 4 is important, and § 16 is important, but in § 16 the sentence we are discussing is framed by two sentences that are crystal clear, and all of which are a few. That's why I spent a little time on it, not least after the representative Raja made his brilliant contribution to my vision. So I still think it says that in a sensible way to explain how one can hold a feast on the importance of religious freedom, that we should have a visionary state, and at the same time that the first paragraph of Section 2 should stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e548	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e562	The Constitution is the contract between people, from people to people and through generations. It's elevated above power. It's a guarantee of freedom that we give to each other. Therefore, it is a good thing that not even the Storting rises above the Constitution. The rule of law shall include, inter alia: ensure all freedom of expression, fair trial, participation in free elections and freedom from slavery. It must ensure freedom and democracy. People's rule is only a reality when everyone has equal opportunities to participate in it. Therefore, many of the decisions taken by the Storting as a result of the work of the Human Rights Committee were democratizing in itself. But a democratic rule of law must also have the task of securing itself. The proposal we are discussing today should not change the legal state of the day. Future politicians are free to take just as stupid or wise priorities as today's. The Constitutional Amendment does not set limits on politics, for which many have been afraid, but sets limits for politicians who do not want to use power but abuse it. The function of the Constitution only arises in the presence of politicians who want to get over it. By legislating the right to test, we make that exercise a little more difficult. In cases before the courts, the courts have the right and the obligation to review whether laws and other decisions of the State authorities are contrary to the Constitution. That's the statehood in Norway as we know it. One sentence describes one of the most important nails in the plank of democracy. Therefore, it is natural for the majority of the Committee to insist on legislating that very sentence, not to change anything today, but to protect something for the future. When the Human Rights Committee gives us an opportunity to consolidate one of the most important guarantees we have to maintain a democratic rule of law, we should seize it. There is, as Eirik Holmøyvik writes, no reason why the Storting should ‘go quietly in the constitutional doors’. Paragraph 2 of the Constitution states that the Constitution must guarantee human rights, but also democracy and the rule of law. The proposal states that the right to test is an important guarantee that human rights are respected. Therefore, the majority of the Committee considers that a fundamental law on the right to review is inherently linked to the decision of the Storting on 13 May 2014 to strengthen the position of human rights in the Constitution. Nevertheless, it is important for me, as the rapporteur-in-Office, to stress that the reasons for legislating the right to test are not only limited to strengthening the position of human rights. The general obligations of the State to ensure human rights are laid down in Section 92, formerly Section 110. For the 150 years of the trial court as a custom, it has been discussed and problematised. It is important for it to function properly, but now that the majority of the Committee is in favour of legislating it, it is not in order to give it new boundaries or posts or a new scope. It is a question of making visible in the Constitution the competence to review laws and other decisions of the authority already in the courts, a competence which, because of its duration, can only be lost by changing the constitution. The right to test has been discussed, as I said, and lately it has also been discussed whether the 200-year-old High Court has intensified the use of the right to test. Well, it doesn't look like that if you're counting on it. From 2000 to 2010, the Supreme Court reviewed, on average, laws in approx. In the previous decade, 1.7 cases per year up to 0.8 cases per year. And then it's also a good thing to take into account that in the same period, issues about the Constitution increased altogether from 87 to 118. Parliamentarism, the principle of legality and the right to review are traditionally considered to be the most important examples of constitutional customary law. With a fundamental law on the right to test, the three most important constitutional law formations in Norwegian law will be based on the text of the Basic Law. Several options are available for the design of the provision. The majority of the Committee agrees with the Human Rights Committee that the intensity of the test is complex and therefore not suitable for general regulation. The intensity of the test will depend by far on the content, purpose and design of each rating and on the actual conditions in any case. The design of the available alternatives to the fundamental law fixing of the test right must be understood against the rear carpet. It has been discussed whether the wording of the proposal may alter the practice of the right to apply because of the way in which it is formulated, and because of the interpretation of the indefinite majority form of the word ‘laws’, that it may point to the possibility of the courts having legal effect for all to try and, where appropriate, set aside the whole of the law as being unconstitutional. The courts cannot do that today. In the present case, it is clear that the purpose of a provision on the right to apply to the courts is to make the Constitution visible, the right to apply to the courts in the present form and content. The majority therefore consider that the design does not provide a basis for the courts to develop a new and more extensive judicial review, as many have expressed in earlier discussions. A change of the current form and content of the right of appeal will also require a constitutional amendment. The same applies if you wish to suspend the right to test. In the past, it has been proposed to suspend the right to test, during the inter-war period. But if you look at the constitutional debate in the middle war time versus the way we are discussing the Constitution now, that period was marked by a completely different constitutional discourse. As Anine Kierulf described in the Class Struggle, the proposals to abolish the right of appeal were ‘marked by a resistance not primarily against the right to test, but against the Basic Law itself as an individual protection against majority power’. I'll say a little bit about where the provision should stand, and we've also discussed that. The Committee considers that paragraph 89 of Chapter D of the Constitution on Judicial Power should be placed in the vacant section, and that is because the paragraph primarily regulates the jurisdiction and function of the courts. And as we discussed earlier, in most cases, the right to apply to the enforcement of the Basic Law's provisions on human rights, which may imply the placement of Section 114 of Chapter E, but the right to test is not limited to simply dealing with it. The Courts will also be able to review whether decisions of authority comply with procedural requirements of the Constitution, for example: whether laws are valid, adopted in accordance with the formal requirements of the Constitution. Constitutional issues relating to the relationship between state powers and their competences according to the circumstances will also be open to the courts, and in such cases, the Supreme Court has previously – and this is important to bear in mind – consistently stated and reasoned that the courts will respect the view of the Grand Duchy on the Constitutional border. However, judicial control is not in principle excluded in those cases. Difficult border issues against individual protection may arise, which may require more judicial review. The people's contract between themselves, the Constitution, is above power. It's over the Storting. The hierarchy of power in Norway begins with that contract. Then the people stand themselves, and then their representatives. Therefore, I am pleased to say that the majority of the control committee insists that option 3B to new section 89 be accepted. In cases before the courts, the courts have the right and the obligation to review whether laws and other decisions of the State authorities are contrary to the Constitution. In this case, we are also discussing another paragraph, and that is why I am going to go over to it. The prohibition of double penalties is one of the most important guarantees of legal certainty in society. The prohibition of double penalties is one of the fundamental concerns of the predictability of individuals. It's both the need to predict the consequences of what you're doing, the need to put relationships behind you and the ability to start over or move on with your life. Repeated punishment for the same conditions will also be experienced as being fundamentally unfair, perhaps even arbitrary, both for the victim and for the witness to it. The Committee has considered the proposal for a new third paragraph on the prohibition of double penalties, and also organised seminars, including: This was the theme. That's good. The term ‘criminal concept’ in the first paragraph of Section 96 of the Basic Law is, according to Norwegian law, interpreted differently from the equivalent term in Article 6(1) of the ECHR. 1st@item: inlistbox The Human Rights Committee discussed this and, in its proposal for a new third paragraph of Section 96, has based on the assumption that the understanding of the EMK and the EMD should be used as a basis for that paragraph. But anyway, in the Committee's discussions on this and in the discussions that have taken place in the legal disciplines that we have chosen to pick up and listen to, one sees it as problematic. According to Norwegian case-law, the concept of criminal law in the first paragraph of Section 96 of the Basic Law does not have the same meaning as the equivalent concept in Article 6 paragraph of the EMK. 1st@item: inlistbox The Human Rights Committee insists that as long as it is defined that understanding is to be based, it does not cause any problems. However, the majority of the committee points to the fact that two different terms of punishment in the same provision could create uncertainty, not least in the courts, and it is also unfair to suggest that there are two different interpretations of the same concept in the same basic law. On this basis, the majority argues that none of the alternatives to the new third paragraph of Section 96 is acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e596	I follow the system from the previous speaker by taking the most important provision first, the one we are likely to adopt, and then the double-punishment ban, which, in its present wording, hardly gets a majority. But first, until the hearing of the Court of First Instance: first, I would like to express my satisfaction that the Committee has worked towards common observations, which could, of course, provide a common basis for interpretation later, if it were to be able to be legalised for anything other than the intention behind the paragraph, namely that it should continue to be a valve in order to prevent any infringement of the constitution in the individual case before the courts. So it's not an American system we want, with the possibility for the Supreme Court to universalize decisions so that they immediately become applicable to all public and private parties. We are still based on the system that matters are brought up through one specific case and go through the appeals it has – and finally to the Supreme Court, if that is not resolved along the way. Before the constitutional revisions of the last few years, which began a few years before the anniversary changes last year, parliamentarianism, the principle of legality and this right to test were the most important examples of what is called constitutional customary law. With a fundamental law on the right to test, we will have completed an important codification work, that is. that we have written in the Constitutional Font what has been practiced for a long time without a legal source other than the reference to customary law. The trial court raises interesting questions about the relationship between Stortinget as a popular body and the courts, but the basic thing is that the tension we see is the tension between the function of the Constitution as a threshold and the protection of individuals in a conflict situation, balanced against the regulatory needs of sectoral and present policies. So you can say – in Carsten Smith’s words – that if you want an effective constitution, you have to accept that the Supreme Court is the enforcement body in the last instance. The right to apply — its scope and its limits — will probably always call for a break-up, but the present proposal does not, however, relate to the limits of the right to apply, as it is today, but to enter into the Basic Law the competence to test laws and other decisions of the authority already in the court. The right to review itself is too far, and according to 150 years’ practice, recognised as constitutional customary, and that means that the system can only be abolished by the adoption of an explicit constitutional provision. By means of its ordinary law on a few occasions — as early as 1926 — the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has passed laws which require that the courts should be able to set aside legislative provisions, decisions on deposit or provisional provisions contrary to the Constitution, and express references to this have been included in the Parliamentary Act of 1926, and later the Court Act, which requires such matters to be dealt with by the Supreme Court in plenary or in the Grand Chamber. Again, it must be emphasised that the present draft basic law is solely about entering the right to review into the Constitution with its current content and scope. The purpose of this codification is to express in writing the right to review as a enforcement body of constitutional standards and the protection of the rule of law. This provision should also help and remind the legislators of all the stages of preparation of the law – namely, departments, directorates, other initiators and later, finally, the Stortinget as legislator – that one must keep in mind that one can invite a conflict situation, or a grey zone, in the case of the Constitution, and that one can therefore reflect on it in a qualified way. Thus, those who believe that these wordings should allow for so-called judicial activism will not be able to find support for what has been done in the wording, the motives or the other context in which the provision has been made. I do not wish to elaborate on what the rapporteur had to say when it came to the design of the provision, but merely to confirm that it was a very conscious wish from the committee to express that one joins the so-called third-tier doctrine, which was denounced by the Klöfta judgment, Legal term 1976. 1st@item: inlistbox The third is that the test intensity is weak in the case of legislation that is more detailed than functional distribution between governmental bodies. It is intense in terms of the individual protection provisions of which the Constitution has so many. So while in terms of economic regulation, the need to regulate economic life, there will be an intermediate position between these two extremes, more marked by the individuality of each case. So I think I'm talking on behalf of an overall committee when we again from this pulpit clarify that that's what's in the notes. Finally, a few words about the proposal for a new Section 96: This is a very important provision, and it could be said in isolation that it is manned up – and the woman rises – to adopt the provision here today. But precisely because the provision is so important, it is also essential to have a thoughtful terminology, which does not imply misunderstandings. And we believe that there is a legal weakness in the present proposal, and that the Storting must deal with, in which we cannot edit constitutional proposals as we wish. It is part of the democratic guarantee in the case of intermediate elections. But in any case, rather than adopting a provision which requires two different terms of punishment from the first to the last paragraphs, we would rather come back to – and some have the ambition to promote by the end of this period – a more elaborate provision, and then one can draw on the discussions that have been both in the sample and in the committee. Otherwise, the prohibition of double-punishment is not something that has come with the human rights bill. It has roots back to the Roman right, because it was so fundamentally obvious that it would be unreasonable to expose individuals to the arbitrariness of power by putting them first to one reaction in a criminal prosecution, and then one more. One must have reason to assume that when a matter is settled, it is settled. It is this basic principle – which is also referred to as ne bis in idem – i.e. not twice the same thing. Then we have to go home and make home lessons even better, so that we can present a more elaborate paragraph in future sessions, which also takes into account and perhaps has found a better harmonisation between EU law – or the development of the ECHR – in terms of the criminal concept, and the criminal concept that the Constitution has used so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e630	The background to this case is the selection that the Grand Duchy of Great Britain decided to reduce on 18 June 2009. It was referred to in 2012 by the Human Rights Committee, which issued Document 16 for 2011–2012. It is the court's trial of the fundamental legality of laws and administrative decisions that is the theme I want to address in this change of words. In the case of double-punishment, the Centre Party does not agree with that. I don't want to go into it any further. As can be seen from Document 16 of the Human Rights Committee, testing of administrative decisions against ordinary law falls outside the scope of the mandate of the panel. This is, of course, no part of this debate. The Human Rights Committee points out that, as regards the right of the courts to review the conformity of laws and administrative decisions with the Basic Law, the length and extent of the right to review has been discussed. The issue has been debated extensively in legal and state science literature, and there have been particular differences in views on the extent to which the courts’ right to review should go. The right and obligation to review the legality of laws is limited to so-called specific control, i.e.: that the questions referred for a preliminary ruling may be examined by the courts only if they are brought before the courts in a specific legal dispute. Thus, the Norwegian courts do not have the power to try, on a general basis, whether a law is contrary to the Basic Law. At its core is the issue of the fundamental law-making of the right to test fundamental issues such as democracy, the distribution of power, justice, predictability and justice. I would like to pay tribute to the Faculty of Law at the University of Oslo for having participated in the discussion on the fundamental law on the right to apply to the courts. They have contributed their views, arguments and answers to questions relating to this draft Constitution. I would say it so strongly that it is almost a model for other parts of the academic environment when demanding matters are up for treatment in Stortinget. The participation of the academic environment is not least important to obtain precise conceptual understandings, in order to get a debate on a good basis. There are today many examples of new talk without meaning. A no-thing would be exposed if the Academy took its responsibility and used its freedom of expression under the Constitution. As mentioned earlier, the right to review by the courts is not a new debate. During the interwar period, there were several constitutional proposals for the annulment of the right to apply. These included: Document No 20 for 1926, proposal 14 from Johan Castberg with several, and where it was released Innst. S No 113 – 1929. The proposal at the time was that Section 88 of the Basic Law should be given a new last paragraph, which reads as follows: ‘The fundamental legality of the provisions of the Constitution, of the Laws and of the decisions of the Storthings shall not be the subject of the trial of the Höiester or of any other court.’ At the time, the Committee shared views on – as it is now – whether the fundamental law of the law could always be appealed to the courts. Like it said: 'However, the Committee does not consider it appropriate to examine this point in the light of the unanimous decision to suspend the proposal for rejection in the present form.' It was then – as it is now – discussions not only on the realities but on the form of the proposals. And as we see here, the form meant something that went far beyond the right to test related to law decisions. The proposal was therefore rejected in a unanimous vote by the Foreign and Constitutional Committee on 18 May 1929. Carl Johan Hambro was chairman of the committee. What matters is the core. It is related to the relationship between the state powers and the positions in relation to the People's Government. It's the valuation of the Storting, of the Biggest's overall role, i.e. The role of the People's Republic of China. It concerns the position of the batches in relation to these basic questions. The parties representing the majority in the vote stress that the majority proposal is about making the current right visible, namely entering into the Constitutional Law what is constitutional practice. The majority, through the debate, have tried to make a review of the fact that the relationship between the Storting and the courts is going to be the same, but that this leads to the benefit of making the existing law much more visible to the citizens of the country, and that it will promote democracy and the safe rule of law. The centre party believes this is the basis for a risky course. The essence of the matter is that we will all realize that the judicial power will have a different platform in relation to the Storting when the right to test – from being a right invented and designed by the Supreme Court, which has gradually been accepted as constitutional customary – is made into a right and obligation adopted by the Storing, in accordance with the rules on constitutional changes. At that time, Höjsterett has been given a platform that could become a kick-off point – a kick-off point for a dynamic development. This risk is illustrated by developments in most Western European countries. This applies not least in the countries that are members of the European Union. Several of these countries were in the front line in their time in the fight to develop the People's Rule. Today, the European Court of Justice is a particularly central player in the dynamic narrowing of the space for action and the seaworthiness of national Parliaments in these countries. National Parliaments are on the waving front. The citizens and the bodies they can make responsible and influence are counting less and less. The outcome of this debate must be assumed to be important both for the development of the conditions of the Government of the People's Republic of China and for the general political development of the country. I would therefore like to clarify in principle the central party's position in the matter. The central party believes that the core of the proposal to enter the right of appeal of the courts into the Constitution is not about the modernisation of the Constitution. The core of the proposal is the relationship between state powers and between law and policy. Since 1814, developments between state powers have changed significantly. The changes are an important part of the outcome of the conflict and the cooperation that led to our people's rule. The majority, as is natural in Norway, have been most concerned about the relationship with the government. The right to review by the Court of Justice was not a matter and much less was proposed in the Constitution at Eidsvoll in 1814. It was the lawyers who, beyond the 1800s, became active advocates for the courts' jurisdiction, and it was the Supreme Court who in practice drove it forward. Professor at the Faculty of Law at the University of Oslo, currently Advocate General Fredrik Sejersted, has summarised the role of the Supreme Court on several occasions as follows: ‘ [[...]] This is a quote from Klasskampen on April 1, 2014. The Supreme Court has developed this court step by step — step — also into an obligation. This is also apparent from the earlier reference in the statement that, in the main concession case of 1918, the Supreme Court held that there was a ‘right and obligation’ before the courts to review the legality of laws. The term «rights and obligations» was subsequently followed up by the Supreme Court in major plenary cases beyond the 1900s. The establishment of the Storing as our top state power and the development of our democracy has not come off the hook. Rule of the People's Party has been fought. The Nordics have been inspired by democratic progress in other countries, but the developments of the Norwegian People's Government have been anchored in Norwegian social conditions. International developments are now in the process of changing and undermining the conditions of the National Government. This development is evident in a number of countries in our continent. As mentioned, historically, it was a country in Europe that was leading the development of democracy. Today, national governments in several European countries are under strong pressure and are weakening. International and supranational legal developments are narrowing the scope of action of many national Parliaments. The European Court of Justice acts as a dynamic political force in the formulation of basic policies and developments in the European Union. The centre party will indicate that the majority writes that the registration of the right of appeal will not change the jurisdiction of the courts. The centre party considers that there is a difference between, on the one hand, being able to rely on a right of testing which is in accordance with the provisions of the Basic Law, proposed and adopted by the Stortinget as part of the Basic Law, and, on the other hand, to rely on a right which has never been enshrined in the Basic Law, but which is designed by the High Court of Justice, such as constitutional customary law. We believe that any fundamental legislation on the right to review by the courts imposes strict requirements on the precision of both the legal text and the statements in the preparatory work. It is possible to alter the content and form of the right to test precisely by means of pre-work opinions. The central party believes that the Stortinget can thus provide the Supreme Court with a kick-off point in order to further increase its competence and power. We believe it is important today to strengthen citizens' representation and power in the governance of our society. That is why the power of the Storting must be kept intact, and must be used in the government of the country. We believe that there is no need to change the right to apply to the courts from the constitutional custom of entering and becoming part of the Constitution by decision of the Grand Duchy. We have noticed that in the Supreme Court's exercise of the right to test, it is characteristic that in several of the most important cases, the Supreme Court's judgment has been given with this one's – in some cases with one vote's overweight or with few votes' overweight. We therefore have great respect for the country's good lawyers and for the role they have played in the development of Norway as a society, but we have the position that the Storting must stand firm that the power and governance of our country must lie in the Great Britain. We believe that with the legal process that we can notice, it is wise to stick to the existing relationship between the Storting and the courts, but which is now becoming particularly applicable internationally and internationally. We believe that a separate provision on the right to review in the Constitution is not necessary, because that right is already constitutionally customary. A fundamental law of the court could provide the basis for new interpretations, by which the Storting can hardly predict the outcome. Against this background, we disagree that the proposal for a new section 114 of the Constitution, or alternatively section 89, is accepted. Finally, the majority in this case is now, at our discretion, on a risky course. Rule of the People's Party leads to a conflict of values. This concerns the defence of the Storting as our overall political body. The stork is the people's organ. The majority shall represent the citizens of the country. It's not an easy task. It requires representatives to take responsibility and ensure that Stortinget becomes an actor who has the will and ability to act in order to implement his will, and then to be accountable to the voters. As elected representatives, we cannot hide behind the lawyers and courts, not even behind the Supreme Court. The opinion of the centre party is that Stortinget must be superior and cannot give up its responsibility. Obviously, there are several perceptions about this. It shows the setting, it shows the debate. I noticed that the case rapporteur, the Workers' Party's Jette F. Christensen, was among those who, in connection with 17 May 2015 – i.e. this year – in the newspaper Class struggle on 16 May, were asked the question: ‘What is the role of the nation state in our time?’ Jette F. Christensen replied: ‘The national state is a democratic arena for all as long as we facilitate it.’ As I said, there may be more perceptions of this, but I find it unsatisfactory that the nation state should only be an arena. We live at a time when it is required at least as much as in the past that the nation state is something more than an arena, that the nation state, at the time of the Storting, takes responsibility, represents and fights for positions – a collapse that fulfills its role as sovereign state power, which takes responsibility and is accountable to the citizens. The centre party cannot therefore participate in the course of, among other things. The rapporteur-in-chief here represents. At the end of the day, I would like to add a comment to the comments made by the representative Tetzschner. The representative said that what's happening here is to enter the right to test with the current content and scope. I would like to stress this: the centre party does not get a glimpse of its views here, but we are, in a subsidiary way, pleased – to say that way – that the representative Tetzschner is so precise that it should be the current content and scope. Not least, this also applies within the third divisional doctrine of the Klöfta case, where one should have an intense attitude – as mentioned above – when it comes to the individual protection. When the representative here says that there should be present content and scope, I believe that this also applies to the individual protection, and that there is also a position behind the case rapporteur and the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e707	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e710	I feel that in the contribution of the representative Lundtigen, I was assigned so many opinions that I feel the need to take a reply, with a question to Lundtigen – but first an explanation to the representative Lundtigen. The majority in the Committee's position in this area is about strengthening the People's Government. It is about strengthening people's power in meeting representatives in this house, who in the future will be able to take laws that violate the contract between peoples and generations, namely the Constitution. It's a strengthening of the People's Government. So I understand a tone in the post of the representative Lundtigen that makes me left with one specific question: Does the representative Lundtigen really think that the right to test should be restricted a little?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e719	What is the main concern of the Center Party here – and we have experienced this in the time I have been here, in connection with the fact that it has ended up testing in the Supreme Court – is that when the Stortinget makes a decision, the Stortinget must be so aware that one sees whether the decisions are in line with the Constitution. The last matter in which I was deeply involved was the shipping tax, and it did not come as a surprise to me that the Supreme Court judged as they did in that matter, for the sail of the Stortinge Sea, through thorough, plentiful formulations, tried to show that one had dealt with it thoroughly, it was a fundamental point, namely that the wording was not in line with the Constitution's requirement of non-retroactive force. The Central Party is strengthening the People's Government, and we want to base this exact tradition on the fact that decisions in the Storing must be fundamentally correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e728	Just for a clarification: if you try to do the exercise to lift your eyes and see a little beyond our own political situation today – and I think we should do that when it comes to the Constitution, which is to stand for so long – does the representative Lundtegen see that there may be a need to ensure that decisions taken in this Chamber are in fact in line with the Constitution and not contrary to the Constitution, especially in view of the human rights catalogue with which the representative Lundtegen himself has contributed to strengthening the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e733	That view is, in our opinion, protected by the law of habit, and there is no greater security than that at the time in Stortinget. If the Stortinget does not stand when it really applies, then I do not have so much faith that others are standing either.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e738	The President assumes that Per Olaf Lundteg will make suggestions before he sits down again?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e742	The representative takes up the proposal that the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party are behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e747	Then the representative Per Olaf Lundteg mentioned the proposal he referred to. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e752	The right of appeal of the Court of Justice is well enshrined in constitutional law. With the decision here today, this principle becomes more visible – it becomes part of the Constitution. The proposal is good, and it is right, in the view of the Christian People's Party, to legislate this principle. The Court has been operating and operating since the 1800s, where there has been an interaction between the Storting and the courts, between law and politics. The Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction over the application of a provision of law in each case if they consider that its application is contrary to the Basic Law. It has been claimed by some — at least as a sort of criticism of the proposal — that the proposal has been formulated in such a way as to give the impression that the Court of Justice gives the courts a role as a kind of upper house, by allowing the courts to declare a law invalid in its entirety. It can be claimed — at least it can be suggested, as some have done — that there is a danger of leaving some of the power over what should be law and right in Norway, from Stortinget to the courts. Me and the Christian People's Party do not share this concern. Today, the right to trial works, it has a historical tradition, and in any case it will also be a constitutional custom in the future. The proposal adopted here today, on which it is based, is therefore based on the need for the courts to have a right and an obligation to review whether ‘laws and other decisions of the State authorities’ are contrary to the Constitution. To put it that way, when this constitutional amendment is adopted, the rule will be set out below in the Constitution. If it had not been adopted, it would continue to work as before, as unwritten norms, as it has done up to today, which only lawyers would have had an overview of. The right to apply to the courts is currently constitutionally customary. There is an unwritten rule created by the courts that applies in line with the Constitution. If we put it at the head, we could say that this is a practice introduced by the Supreme Court itself for lack of formal legal texts. Now we get a formal legal text in this area. The right to test has been exercised since the 1800s and cannot be abolished without a change of basic law. When this is done explicitly in the text of the Constitution, it is about clarifying important principles relating to the very principle of power distribution. Yes, it is essentially a matter of materializing purely linguistically and in written form, which is about the very control of abuse of power and arbitrariness. It is, in the view of the Christian People's Party, reasonable and correct. A few years ago, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ratified two other principles which had constitutional traditions: parliamentaryism and the government's obligation to provide information to the Grand Duchy. The Wage Committee proposed to legislate the right to apply to the courts. A fundamental law, as it is now adopted, will not in itself alter the ability of the courts to review whether a law or another decision of the authority is contrary to the Constitution. However, as with parliamentaryism and disclosure, it is wise to formulate the right to review in the Constitution. There has been some discussion about the location of the provision in the Constitutional document itself. The Christian People's Party has always been a supporter of putting the provision into the court chapter, and we are satisfied with the election that has now been taken. There has also been a thorough process in this matter in the committee, and I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough job. There have been hearings and seminars on the topic, and we have received a lot of input over a long time. The fundamental laws shall be treated with the seriousness and thoroughness of the matter. It is the task of Storting and the Committee to deal with these kinds of matters with respect and precision, and not least to play on the professional expertise that exists. We who are the representatives of the people shall approach the people's constitution with respect. It has been done in this case. Then, at the same time, we have another issue that this position deals with, namely the proposal to ban double penalties. Here the committee largely agrees with the intention, as I see it. The rapporteur has explained this matter and why there is a negative attitude on the part of the Committee. I am therefore not going further into this, except to say that there are several legal environments that have pointed to some problematic issues here. That was, as we see it from the Christian People's Party, initially an agreement in the Committee on Constitutional Law to this new paragraph. However, in the final phase of the comitology, there were enquiries from the legal environment, such as: pointed out that the term ‘criminal concept’ in the Basic Law, § 96, first paragraph, under Norwegian law, is interpreted somewhat differently from the corresponding term in the EMK. The Wage Committee considered that the new provision in the third paragraph should be based on the assumption that the understanding of the EMK and EMD should be taken into account for this paragraph. That would mean two different understandings of the term of punishment in the same paragraph. This is related, for example, to: with the use of fines, penalties, penalties, etc. carried out by, for example, the administration or ESA. The matter was put off, and the committee rejects the proposal that exists, but I would like to add that this will be a matter that may come up again, to which the Christian People's Party in that case will be positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e778	I was enrolled at the university in 1995 and started at the law in 1996. I started to read the first jusbooks, both the subject of methodology and state constitutional law, and it's a little strange to say that, but you fall in love with the Constitution. It might just be lawyers that can handle it. I remember the exam in the first department, the first exam. Then the task was to prepare for the courts' right of appeal. That is why I enjoy it a little bit more today, that we adopt or codify the provision on precisely that in the Constitution. It's kind of neat. I'll be very short. I think it is important that we codify this provision into the Constitution. We're not changing anything. We've clarified that very carefully in the notes. We do not restrict the right of the courts to try, nor do we extend it, but we simply fix it in the way that we have been able to best formulate it. This means that we do not change any of the legal situation, except that we simply include in the Constitution what is the actual legal state today. So it's important that this provision has evolved over time, and it's not the purpose of Stortinget that we now finally end this test. It has evolved over time, and the courts themselves must be allowed to chisel out how to continue to have trials, in what strength and in what form. What we already know is that the ratio of decimals, where these are the premises on which the court bases its decision, is very strongly binding. Not least, if you put it on the head first, you might say that this is the highest legal source we have in Norway, even though you would think that the Constitution and the law are. But at the last moment, when you first start to judge concrete decisions, at least the way you interpret the law will have a very big impact. Also, random statements, or deliberately random statements, so-called obiter dictum, have benefited in some cases where one goes beyond the specific decision and gives some direction on how the law is to be understood, also in other neighbouring cases. The Court of Justice has recently made more use of it than in the past, and the Committee does not consider whether to continue to use it or to what extent to increase its intensity. What we're doing is we're codifying the provision that already exists today, the constitutional practice. We're not narrowing or expanding, and it's important to bring it with us. All in all, the Left and I think this is a very good provision to include in the Constitution, and it will also end up including our constitution both parliamentaryism and the principle of legality, now together with the right of trial of the courts. I refer to this and thank the Committee for its good work, not least the case-rapporteur for having done this ashore.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e791	Let me first thank the case spokesman for the work on the matter and join her when it concerns the point of double-punishment. I have only a few comments on the question of the right to test. In any doubt, I would say, I and SV vote against this Constitutional proposal today. I am a strong supporter of the established principle of a right to apply to the courts. I also want to add that I think it's been our practice in a wise way, and it's about where it should be. I'm also, as many people have been here from the pulpit, busy, and I think it's good that the comments include references to the different ways to look at it, or the levels to apply it, in different kinds of cases. But that's the way we're about to decide, not the right to test in general, but one or, more correctly, several specific proposals and precise wordings about taking the right to test. And it's my best opinion that the proposal, as it stands now, for which the majority goes, is at least not as linguistically accurate as it could and should be. I would also like to say that the legal text may not give the necessary guidance to the courts and ultimately to the Supreme Court for how to practice it in the future. After all, it is positive that there are now extensive comments that can be a backtrace for it, but that is what is the background for SV now to go against this basic bill. And with these short and little intense remarks, I'm going to finish my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e802	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e816	The proposal on which the Stortinget is now considering is in this context – let's say – the last proposal relating to the work of the Human Rights Committee. There's still something, but in that way there's a little bit of a moment in the history of Great Britain, which there might be reason to get attached to. What this matter is about is the consideration of a constitutional paragraph which has its background in proposals – as the president presented it – from several representatives, from many parties: the Right, the Centre, the SV and the Workers' Party. These proposals were, as the President is well aware, promoted in the previous period, as part of the large package linked to the treatment of the Human Rights Committee's proposals. But this proposal has its very special history, because an initiative was taken by someone who at least called on the attention of my and several other representatives, namely the Human Rights Committee of the Association of Judges, who raised the question that this proposal addresses. It is a question of covering the need to include what I would call a reservation in the Constitution § 97, which is very unambiguous, as we all know, and which reads: ‘No law shall apply retroactively.’ What the proposal addresses is that the prohibition of retroactive effect should be absolute in the field of criminal law, but that a limited exception is made to ‘in the case of acts which at the time of the act were suspected of being criminal in accordance with human rights and directly punishable by international law’, in order to quote it accurately. The Committee points out that § 97 has remained unchanged since 1814. The Supreme Court ruling in the so-called war crimes case in 2010 confirms that we do not have a good enough law to judge international crimes committed before 2008. The aim of the proposal is to amend the Constitution so that it becomes more in line with the EMK – European Convention on Human Rights – Article 7. The Human Rights Committee dealt with this issue and concluded that Section 97 of the Constitution should remain unchanged, contrary to what the Human Rights Committee of the Association presented in its proposal, and as a number of representatives suggested to the Stortinget. The reason given by the Human Rights Committee was that a new provision could put pressure on other parts of our law. This could weaken protection and human rights. After a long and – I would say – very concrete and circumstantial discussion, the Committee agrees with this recital of the Human Rights Committee, because the Committee also emphasises that the adoption of the new Penal Code Chapter 16 on genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, which entered into force on 7 March 2008, implies that crimes of this kind committed after 2008, can be judged without changes in the Constitution § 97, as the proposal puts it. In view of this, a new second subparagraph will only be of a temporary nature. It also weakens the importance of the proposal. The vast majority of organisations and individuals consulted by the Committee are strongly critical of the proposal. On this basis, a unanimous committee proposes that the proposal be rejected. I am obliged to make a mistake in the case. For the sake of the record, I would like to point out that in the case of an incursion in both the draft constitution and the technical summary in the clause, there is a point that refers to § 107. It was supposed to say §97. I recommend the unanimous recommendation of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e838	There is a unanimous committee position in this matter and the rapporteur has made a good presentation, so I shall not withdraw the time unnecessarily here. I just want to link some rather brief comments to the matter. Paragraph 97 of the Constitution expresses one of the most central legal principles we have in Norway, namely that no law should be given retroactive effect. It is a short and concise provision and one of the few in the Constitution that have remained unchanged since 17 May 1814. The proposal to amend Section 97 and the proposal that the Committee has now used in good time to assess has in itself enabled the Stortinget, if the paragraph had been amended in line with the proposals, to adopt new criminal rules with effect also for previous acts, if the acts were presumed to be criminal in accordance with human rights and directly punishable under international law. This may, for example: are about war crimes, genocides and other crimes against humanity. As we know and as the Committee touches on in its position, recent legislation on penalties for war crimes, genocides and crimes against humanity has been adopted. The law came into force on 7 March 2008, and the rules are designed in accordance with the Statutes of the International Criminal Court and were intended to ensure, inter alia, that: war criminals could be convicted under Norwegian law to at least the same extent as under international law. The rules apply to all residents of Norway, irrespective of nationality and where the action was taken. In addition, war crimes and genocide could be punished under more general criminal rules. There are several examples of this, last in the Borgarting Lawyers' Court's judgment of 16 January 2015, where a Rwandan was sentenced to 21 years in prison for participation in killings of at least 2,000 people during the 1994 Rwandan genocide. The proposal that Stortinget is now going to vote on is first of all very unfortunate in principle. This is fundamentally unfortunate because the proposal violates a central principle of the Norwegian rule of law. One should only be punishable for acts that were punishable by Norwegian law when the act was committed. It's an important principle to stick to. The proposals have been carefully assessed – Constitutional proposals should always be carefully considered. A lot of ideas have been made; the committee has done a solid job in this case as in the other cases, among other things. with hearings and seminars. For the Christian People's Party, I am pleased with the unanimity that lies in the position, and I am pleased with the conclusion that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e851	I would first like to thank the rapporteur for his work, not just for the work of the Committee, but primarily the work of the Committee, the participation in the exchange of words on this issue among those who are most committed – a debate based on a search for balance of interests. When I say this, it's because I was also part of the Constitutional Bill and got through the proceedings in the committee – and not least the proceedings outside the committee – a recognition that changing the law at this point was not right, so if we talked here about criminal matters under international law. Criminal relations under international law have been updated by people who have come to Norway and who have a history before they come as it has proved necessary to address – a history that is so serious that it is punishable by international law. But when we went through the case and saw this in a totality, I'm very happy with the result that we've come up with. When you got a change to the penal code with Chapter 16 on, among other things. genocide, which entered into force on 7 March 2008, would - as stated in the clause - change to Section 97 of the Basic Law would only be temporary because it would apply to conditions that existed before 2008. So I'm very pleased with this treatment. I am very pleased with the rapporteur's input into it and his participation in the public change of words. It's something that should have been more of. Only until the end: the treatment of constitutional proposals is reassuring. What this case has shown me is that it is a cross-section of mind that we, who are behind the Constitutional proposals, find that we can no longer stand behind the proposal here in the Chamber when the discussion comes. It's a theme that makes me, for the future, make much greater demands on me, on what proposals I'm on when it comes to changing the Constitution. If one doesn't, we don't get the sober debate in advance of elections, which is one of the points of the whole way we're dealing with constitutional proposals. This will not be necessary because there are too many examples of what is proposed by constitutional changes not being followed up by those behind the proposal when it is promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e860	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e874	I will begin by stating that there is a majority in the Committee and a majority in the Grand Duchy behind the comments that raise concerns and that raise criticism in this matter. There are comments and criticisms addressed to the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, and there are comments and criticisms directed at Telenor and its Chairman and Group Head. It does not contain proposals for decisions, but I assume that both the Council of State Monica Mæland, the Department and Telenor in its management understand and accept a majority criticism here in Stortinget. The fact that the Council of State does so is in accordance with constitutional practice and to regard it as a matter of course. It is the Council of State that is accountable to Stortinget. It is she and her department who have the ongoing responsibility to follow up the state's ownership of Telenor. But I think Telenor and its management also have to directly take over and follow the majority criterion that emerges from the vote. That view is based on the opinion that Telenor is a company in which the state is a majority victory, and with a history as a national company responsible for significant parts of our telecommunications, i.e. not any company. The management of Telenor, both the director and the group leader, is on this basis to perceive as a trustee with a responsibility to be responsive to the Stortinget. As I said, this option is a majority option. The right hand party and the Progressive Party have their own comments which have different views throughout, in particular on the current police investigation. I also refer to these comments and assume that the minority explains their comments and opinions. There is no disagreement, nor within the Committee, as to the devastating effects of corruption. Corruption is simply a threat to the rule of law, contrary to human rights, an obstacle to social justice, and it undermines democracy. Corruption maintains poverty and hinders the development of wealth. Therefore, corruption is punishable by both Norwegian and international law. It's a fact that corruption exists, even in our own society, so we have to be on guard and never let ourselves be entangled in a notion that this concerns everyone else, but not us. Corruption takes so many forms. There is no longer money in envelopes – although it probably also occurs – but there are smart creations of fictional companies with strange names and owners living in countries that hide them and their values. This is the case we are dealing with today, which is really about – the instruments that can be used in the fight to win market shares in a country where, according to some, it is not possible to buy a cup of coffee without contributing to the black economy and corruption. As far as we have been able to inform the matter, we have received repeated answers that Telenor is not to blame, that the knowledge of the VimpelCom is now being investigated for by the authorities in several countries, is far beyond what we can expect Telenor to know. We know that Telenor's ownership of VimpelCom has a long and difficult history that has resulted in Telenor not having the majority of the shares, and thus what is called control of VimpelCom. I stress, so the Council of State also hears it clearly: we also understand and accept that it is somewhat more complicated to have control of everything the company does. But what we don't understand is that Telenor uses force to convince us and the public that nothing wrong has happened. We do not understand that – or perhaps more precisely: that Telenor’s representatives have not known anything, seen anything or done anything, if something is wrong at all. In a letter to the Committee, the State Council of Malta correctly writes that she cannot rule out corruption. And Telenor's board says in public: "I'm not saying that it hasn't been corruption, but that we're doing the best we can to figure it out." It is quite difficult for us to understand beyond that nothing concretely wrong has happened, with a CEO of VimpelCom from Norway and Telenor and with three directors from Telenor, with the then group leader Baksaas as one of them. Is it then possible not to know anything? Is it then possible not to understand anything? Of course, me and the majority are aware of and respect that the case is internationally under police investigation. Telenor has witness status. Only when the investigation is complete do we have the answer. The Control Committee does not judge, but the Control Committee nevertheless insists on the independent demands and rights of democratic institutions to know how laws and general principles have been followed up in practice. We insist. To avoid being entangled into corruption scandals, all Norwegian companies could stay away from countries where corruption is widespread. We don't want that. We're not saying that. There is a broad political consensus that it is generally positive that Norwegian companies engage internationally, including in countries where companies will meet ethical challenges. Nevertheless, companies that act in countries that are affected by corruption must be particularly aware of what their conduct actually contributes to. And for the companies in which the state owns or shares, the state must have clear expectations of how the companies work, that they – as Transparency International puts it – are part of the solution to the problem and not part of the problem. To put it another way, we are asking ourselves whether Telenor has been aware enough of corruption that has taken place in connection with the acquisition of telecommunications licences by VimpelCom in Uzbekistan. It's about VimpelCom. Telenor as such is not under investigation, but nevertheless it is a great thing to rest on Telenor's shoulders, in the sense that they too must, of course, be responsible for VimpelCom's dispositions, thus also the charges of corruption. Seen with my eyes, it's not the question of legal responsibility that's the central one, it's the moral one. So to this, nobody -- and I'm not saying anyone, because there's nobody -- denies that an estimated 700 million. kr was paid into a bank account in Gibraltar owned by a sole proprietorship or a single wife company, Takilant, a company responsible for writing to the authorities of Uzbekistan and recommending that the licence be granted to VimpelCom. Apparently, Telenor's got it. Looks like the Ministry has it. Anyway, it's so hard to call it by its real name. I don't understand. A corruption charge against one of the country's most important companies is very serious and will have consequences for the reputation of this company as well as for Norway's reputation as well as a country where there is an actual zero tolerance for corruption. As far as possible, the Committee has tried to get to the bottom of the matter by means of several letters to the Council of State and in open consultation. For a majority of the Control and Constitutional Committee, it has been crucial that the Department has followed the strict line of the Storting in relation to corruption in its ownership dialogue with Telenor and has ensured that Telenor has taken the necessary steps to prevent any corruption as a partner in VimpelCom. To put it just as easily as last time: Despite efforts to get to the bottom of the matter, the question of whether there has been corruption remains unanswered. Neither the State Council nor Telenor's management can answer whether there has been corruption in VimpelCom, despite the evidence of the 700 million. kr. Nor is there sufficient evidence that measures have been taken to prevent the corruption of the responsible owners of VimpelCom, and in my opinion the department has not shown sufficient willingness to reveal what has happened. As the case has been attempted for us, the fact that Telenor is not a majority winner has made them not in a position where they can control VimpelCom as they want. We don't buy this. We understand that a company in such a position is more dependent on the relationship of other owners to anti-corruption measures, but there is no doubt that the responsibility of directors is the same whether you have control in the company or you do not have control in the company. The responsibilities of each member of the board are the same under all legislation. I would like to reiterate what the Secretary-General of Transparency International, Guro Deletemark, said during the hearing: ‘If the anti-corruption programme of the joint venture has insufficient content or is insufficiently implemented, the parent company should require corrective action through the management bodies of the joint venture. If the influence is not beneficial and if the deviations are unacceptable, the parent company should withdraw from the sub-entity.’;» So do we. Telenor's board has always been free to consider withdrawing from VimpelCom. On questions of whether it had been considered to withdraw from VimpelCom, Chairman Aaser replied in the hearing that it was not relevant ‘in the interest of Telenor shareholders’ — ‘in the interest of Telenor shareholders’. It's a quote. Then we have to be able to establish strictly that there might be something about the weighting between zero tolerance for corruption and the consideration of the non-balanced shareholders. A thorough check of questionable transactions has not been made, and, as it looks, actually has not been evaluated. The board members prided themselves on a so-called FCPA report without, according to Baksaas himself, going deeper into what was there, yes without even reading it. Neither did the fact that the payments went to a sole proprietorship in Gibraltar, seemed to arouse any suspicion at the board of directors of VimpelCom – no. According to Telenor’s director and group manager, this was not natural either – notice this in the storeroom, he says ‘even not natural’ – all the time the transactions are allocated to the administration and the payments are, the notes, so small, 700 million. that the members of the Management Board were unable to take any form of suspicion. That's especially to say, I have to say, for a director and managing director of a Norwegian company where the state is a majority victory. That's a special statement. Both Chairman Aaser and Group Chief Baksaas stressed in the hearing that it was the administration of VimpelCom that was responsible. Asseser supported this by saying that the matter in sum created so much anxiety that in a letter to the director of VimpelCom, he had asked questions about the board's trust in the administration, i.e. trust among other things. to the Norwegian Executive Director of the company. If he has received an answer to that letter, I do not know. It is at least not announced to Stortinget – it could have been interesting to know what the director of VimpelCom had replied to such a letter. We don't have that knowledge, maybe the Council of State has it. Baksaas, on his side, left the impression of understanding the concerns about the transactions and, in particular, the relationship with Takilant and the president's daughter in Uzbekistan, but also he – Baksaas – held that it was the administration of VimpelCom that was responsible, not the board. The Ministry has confirmed by letter to the Committee that Telenor’s ability to block the decision to enter Uzbekistan and therefore the transactions involved in this case is the Statute of VimpelCom. Then I say it is worrying that neither the chairman nor the head of the group informed the control committee about this blocking possibility. The entire representation of Telenor as a minority owner without power and ability to control, and the presentation of the administration as the sole responsible party for questionable transactions, thus loses its weight and authority. This matter started thanks – again – to the work done by the media. Through the Class Struggle and Today's Business, the public has been given insight into how VimpelCom has operated in Uzbekistan, and we have been told that in two rounds, the first time in 2012, when Trond Giske was Minister of Industry and called Telenor. Mæland as Minister of Industry also asked in 2014 for a written statement from Telenor and has had several meetings with the company. In her presentation to the Committee, she writes inter alia: that her assessment is that Telenor's board is taking the work against corruption seriously, and is generally working actively on the issues at stake. Furthermore, she points out that the measures taken so far by the Telenor Board of Directors do not guarantee that any critical or illegal acts have not taken place. Right, right. That's right. The impression we are left with is that in the first place, the Council of State fully concluded about Telenor's assessment when the matter became public through the media. Telenor's assessment of its role, as well as Telenor's view that they were subject to professional secrecy both to the public and to the Stortinge, joined the Council of State. First of all, it is unfortunate that the Council of State does not see the value of the fact that the Storting as a democratic institution engages in such a serious matter. It is the legitimate task of the Committee to intervene in the management of the State minority interest in Telenor and therefore of great interest in the application of the principles of Telenor’s anti-corruption in an international market. It is particularly important given that the government’s own ownership message has focused on social responsibility and deepened it in the following four areas: human rights, corruption, climate and environment and employee rights. But the big question is how active the department has been in this matter. A majority is clearly critical of Telenor’s lack of willingness to investigate and intercept critical situations, and, as the Council of State of Malta said in the hearing, there are ‘very good reasons why this is being investigated’. So do we. In that case, it is simply not possible to understand that the department has failed to gain insight into and put an appropriate pressure — not undue, but an appropriate pressure — on following the guidelines and expectations of an owner. The impression we're left with is that the department didn't give priority to what the department itself says they're focusing on, working against corruption. The Ministry could be much more active and ongoing in its dialogue with Telenor. The Ministry could, among other things: asked questions about the possibility of blocking entry into Uzbekistan, whether Telenor’s board members had assessed the transactions on the basis of their obligations to work against corruption, and, not least, whether Telenor’s board had at any time assessed that the risk of contributing to corruption was such that they had to consider selling out of VimpelCom. The Minister of Industry did the opposite to the choice of what is required to prevent corruption. She chose to be elusive rather than informative. She chose to protect a company rather than protect our reputation as a country that has zero tolerance for the man-made disaster corruption actually is. And last but not least: when a majority of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is of the opinion that I have expressed here, the Minister of Industry chooses to characterise a majority in the Biggest in the media as unprofessional, in today's Business. Telenor's supervisor on his side says that our attitude is opinions that express vision. They don't go into the argument, but they give the majority of the Big One characteristics. It's strong. It's strong, especially on that basis, after that, that there's no one – and once again, I say: no one – that can refute our arguments and opinions. Realities are attempted over-covered by a reconstructed legal argument. I'm very alarming about that, but it goes into the series of examples of how international companies often operate, often to prevent national authorities from being transparent and controlling. What the majority vote says is, the majority does not accept it. The Ministry and the Council of State have, through the comments, been criticised. The future practice and approach must be in line with the will of the majority of population.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e947	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a thorough review. I do not agree with everything he has said here; I will come back to that. Otherwise, I would also like to thank the rapporteur and the rest of the Committee for a well-functioning audit on the matter. The case concerns the ownership exercise of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries in Telenor and the further handling of Telenor in the VimpelCom case. It may be tempting, when we've been told that a large amount of money has gone to a dictatorial daughter's best friend without any relationship to the telecommunications industry, via a mailbox company in Gibraltar, to drill in just these curious questions. But of course we have to be principled. Our concern is to assess whether the Department and the Council of State have done what the Stortinget has asked the Ministry and the Council of State to do, not to determine whether or not it has committed a crime. Corruption is said to be like cancer: the system is weakened, but you can tolerate it a little bit. All of a sudden you get over a critical point, and then the whole system collapses. We can observe multiple communities where this happens, or is about to happen. The consequence is that entire generations of young people do not get opportunities based on their talents, abilities and motivation, but on their ability to pay. This leads to stagnation and pessimism, it kills innovation and initiative, and it deprives individuals, as well as entire nations, of the opportunity to work for a better life. It is therefore essential that we have strict rules and effective enforcement in terms of anti-corruption work. The size has thus declared zero tolerance against corruption. I also think that the department has followed up, both under the previous government and now. A unanimous committee writes in its opinion that the crucial issue in the matter is: ‘which, in its ownership dialogue with Telenor, has followed up the strict line of the Stortingen in terms of corruption and thereby ensured that Telenor has taken the necessary steps to prevent any corruption as partners in VimpelCom.’ This is a quote from the setting. As far as this is concerned, I believe that it is beyond doubt that the department has followed up the strict line of the Storting to Telenor. The Council of State has had a number of meetings with Telenor on the matter, eight in the number, and has also made it clear in the ownership notice that the board of directors should have greater attention than in the past on the work of companies in the area of social responsibility, that all companies should have systems, measures and guidelines to prevent corruption, and that companies should carry out care assessments on corruption issues in their activities. On the second question, if Telenor has taken the necessary steps to prevent any corruption as a partner in VimpelCom, it is a question that we can hardly answer before we know the outcome of the investigation. What we know is that Telenor has been working against VimpelCom to get better practice. We know that a due diligence has been carried out by this Takilant company. We know that the exposure in Uzbekistan should have been implemented and controlled under US FCPA legislation. However, if the bulk of the population would conclude that Telenor should have taken further steps, it is in the case of the previous Minister of Industry who would have to be responsible for it, all the time this matter is from 2012. Transparency International also replied in the hearing that the ministry should have done more precisely in 2012, without paying too much attention to such an assessment. So I'm not going to spend too much time from this speaker to go into what I think, and what I don't think, but my impression is that Telenor has done what they can to prevent corruption both in their own organization and in VimpelCom. If someone believes that their nominees should use their minority rights and block the investment decision in Uzbekistan, it would be contrary to the unanimous opinion of the Committee to enter high-risk markets to contribute to development through ‘best practice’. It was also this Transparency International said in the hearing, also reproduced by the case-rapporteur from this pulpit. I believe, however, that Telenor is not satisfied with being a minority owner in this company together with the majority owner who is now there. Telenor also stated clearly that their original plan in the 1990s was to buy up to a controlling majority victory position in the company. Then there are a few things I want to address. The first is that it is said that there is a lack of willingness to reveal what has happened on the part of the department. I believe that there is no basis for claiming at all. The ministry has, after what I have seen, asked for detailed information from Telenor, but it is therefore not the task of the Department or the Stortinge to conduct police investigations and establish these kinds of facts. That's the task of the police and the court. A claim that must also be met is: ‘The majority consider it unfortunate that the Council of State does not see the value of the involvement of the Storting as a democratic institution in such a serious matter.’ There is a flagrant remark for which there is no basis. The Council of State has, for example, sent documentation on correspondence to the Committee as soon as possible, sometimes on its own initiative, before the Committee's referral. The Council of State has also stated explicitly in the hearing that she was pleased that the Committee had been involved in the matter. I'm not going to say more about it, although there's much more to say to characterize such a formulation. This is a serious matter, with serious allegations that have been made. I think everyone sitting in this room for a day-to-day time would want us to have avoided having this debate, not discussing allegations of corruption, but that is the reality. But we can't make ourselves a courtroom, we can't prejudge. Even if that suspicion, the accusations, the allegations that have been made about VimpelCom and about Telenor, were to prove to be true, it is nevertheless wrong that we should conclude in that kind of case. The rapporteur said here: we don't know what happened, and we're not going to judge. It's, in my opinion, a good summary of what we're not going to do in this room, because we don't know what happened, and we're not going to judge. So the rapporteur at the same time troubles that the department cannot determine whether there has been corruption. He believes it is critical that the department will not respond to whether it has committed corruption or not – even if we do not know what has happened, even if we are not to judge. I've said it before, and I'm going to repeat it over and over again from this pulpit: we're not a courtroom. We are a legislative and admissibility authority. There are other state powers to determine whether or not a crime has been committed. What we're going to evaluate is the department's ownership management of Telenor, and it's been satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e990	The issue we are dealing with today raises important questions about how Norwegian state-owned companies exercise their ownership of companies in which they are partners and which carry out extensive business activities in countries that have some major corruption challenges. The main questions are about Telenor's role as a partner in VimpelCom, in the light of the corruption charges raised against VimpelCom, and how the state's ownership exercise has been in Telenor relating to this matter. The matter has been thoroughly explained by the case rapporteur – I will just go into a few aspects of the matter. There can't be any doubt that it should and must be zero tolerance against corruption. Corruption is about enriching government figures in a country and consolidating the power of these authorities. Corruption maintains poverty and hinders the development of wealth that can benefit the entire population in the country in question. It is therefore the responsibility of companies operating in countries with corruption challenges. Telenor has a well-established and recognised anti-corruption programme. The challenge for this company, as well as for all others with similar good programmes in this area, is how to deliver on the programme in practice. Therefore, as Guro Deletemark, Head of Transparency International Norway, expressed it during the hearing and which has already been quoted, it is essential that: «companies operating ashore with corruption challenges must be part of the solution and not part of the problem». [[...]] The main question in the matter we are dealing with today is the extent to which Telenor, as the largest minority winner in VimpelCom, has had a sufficient, forward-looking and active attitude in the matters covered by the criminal prosecutions. What has one done to ensure that the values on which Telenor's own anti-corruption programme is based have also been taken into account for VimpelCom's business? What has been done by Telenor to ensure that one has not contributed to corruption? And in what way has the state exercised its ownership of Telenor, seen in the light of this issue? I have to admit that it appears as a cross of thought that in this and similar matters it seems to be the media that very often drives these kinds of things forward. It's the ones that get out, in many cases, what's actually happened. Now it should be added that in this case it has not been established that there has been corruption. The case is now under investigation in several countries, we are familiar with it, and neither has the Committee’s work — of course — been able to answer that question. Of course, the task of finding out such a relationship must be entrusted to the police authorities. However, the task of the Committee is to assess whether the measures taken by the Telenors and the Ministry of Industry have been sufficient to prevent corruption. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are critical of the fact that the government representatives from Telenor have not been able to clarify the transactions that have taken place in VimpelCom, which is the basis of the corruption charges. As the largest minority owner, it does not seem to us that one has used the power and influence one has had in VimpelCom, to get to the bottom of the matter. As members of the Governing Board, they have a separate responsibility to do what is possible to get an answer to the question of whether there have been illegalities. It is then serious to note that the thorough investigation you could have done, not in this case has been carried out in full. Despite the fact that Telenor’s directors informed that they had taken the initiative to investigate, one has not been able to respond to how the transactions that have been the basis of the corruption convictions have been carried out in relation to the requirement of zero corruption. One has chosen to rely on this quality stamp that American law gave the transactions, almost like some kind of insurance. It is therefore alarming to note that one from the Telenors side does not seem to have taken advantage of all the possibilities that one had to find answers to the question of whether the serious corruption charges against VimpelCom had a truth content. I would also like to stress what the case rapporteur himself mentioned in his statement, whether the possibilities Telenor had in the shareholder agreement to block the decision to enter Uzbekistan, and therefore in transactions that this case is about. It is serious when information on these aspects of the shareholder agreement, in this case the blocking possibility for a large minority shareholder such as Telenor, was not provided by the company to the control committee during the hearing. There is no doubt that the State Council of Malta has experienced the situation and the accusations against VimpelCom as very serious and has taken the matter very seriously. This is visible through several meetings, where the theme of corruption was also addressed. But neither can the Council of State guarantee – of course – that illegalities have not happened in this matter, because, as I said, this responsibility lies with the police authorities. The question that one still has to ask is whether the Department, at the Council of State, has done enough to put pressure on Telenor to use the influence that the company had in VimpelCom, to get to grips with the circumstances surrounding the transactions that you have asked questions about. Although Telenor is in a minority position, we have been presented with the blocking possibilities they still have as minority shareholders in VimpelCom. Then one also has a special responsibility and a special opportunity to follow the clear rules that you have for Norwegian companies just about zero corruption. Although the Council of State has been clear about the gravity of the situation, one, from our point of view, should have been even more active and ongoing in the dialogue with Telenor in order to follow Norwegian rules in this area. Based on the dialogue we have been given access to in the committee, it seems that one could have been much clearer to ask Telenor to use all the tools it had under the shareholder agreement. Both the possibility of blocking and, in the ultimate sense, the compatibility of ownership of the company with Norway’s position on corruption. The Christian People's Party is part of the majority, and we have a clear expectation that the Council of State will state – as she did at the hearing in the course of the hearing – that one has clear expectations of all state-owned businesses that laws and rules in the area of anti-corruption will be followed up, both through well-developed corruption programmes and – not least – through compliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1021	I would like to begin by giving tribute to the President-in-Office of the Court – the case-rapporteur who, according to the possibilities given to him by the President-in-Office, has tried to clarify the matter. However, the rapporteur’s statement showed that one has not got it – and despite the fact that the case rapporteur knows Norwegian administration and Norwegian practice in governments better than most, and, I am reasonably sure, is aware that this matter is so big that it is not getting more facts in the matter, is a result of a culture that has gradually evolved, and where it is my claim that it had not had the opportunity to develop without support in circles that decide. When the Klasskampen and Dagens Næringsliv started writing about VimpelCom's dispositions in connection with the acquisition of the telecommunications licences in Uzbekistan in autumn 2014, the police in a number of countries started investigating in March 2014. The Swedish telecommunications company TeliaSonera was also charged in 2012 with the payment of million amounts to persons with strong ties to the Uzbek regime. There was a parliamentary review in Sweden, and the management of TeliaSonera had to leave. So there is a lot that has been said and done outside Norway, and there have been consequences. The issue we are discussing now affects several governments. It concerns government councils in the Red-Green Government and it affects state councils in today's government. That is why it is so commendable that the chairman of the Committee does not refer to the government that has done what, but is sincerely committed to providing a basis for the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee and the Stortinget to do their job. The hearing, to which reference was made, did not give satisfactory answers to the Committee's questions. The case rapporteur said: ‘As far as we have been able to inform the matter’ – and in that it is a feeling that a far from being able to inform the matter. Former Managing Director, Baksaas, member of the board of VimpelCom, could say that what he became acquainted with as a member of the board of VimpelCom was something he could not tell on to the Norwegian state as an owner of Telenor, which he was cut off from. At the same time, it was clearly currant to sit on the board of VimpelCom with the double roles it meant. It's pretty strong to experience it. It is also strong to see that there is a non-unanimous committee here. It is also special to learn that the representatives of the Progress Party have not yet signed up on the list of speakers. It should have been a unanimous committee that could say that the ministry has not shown sufficient willingness to reveal what has happened. The Ministry has confirmed by letter to the Committee that Telenor’s ability to block the decision to enter Uzbekistan, and thus the issue of this case, is attached to VimpelCom. So one had a chance. I have to say, as the rapporteur said, it is difficult for the government to call 700 million. kr to an individual woman undertaking in Gibraltar by its proper name. And the question of whether this has occurred corruption is still unanswered. I also think that Mr Große's comment to the rapporteur, in which he referred the case-rapporteur to the closed remarks, should have been unanswered. And when the Right Spokesman is talking about that this can't get its clearance here, it's going to get its clearance in the courtroom. Yes, there is a clear division of powers between the Storting and the courts, but what is the responsibility of the Control Committee is to try to find out what has happened in the matter, so that we can have a democratic control of the executive. It's based on transparency about what the government knows and has done. And if the government doesn't know, the government's representatives can ask! It is important to ask what has happened, and what is happening in those bodies and in those governments where the state has direct or indirect ownership. The representative, Große, said that the owner-management had been satisfactory here. I disagree. This case suggests that over many years there has developed a culture in which facts are not to be seen, and thus the control committee does not have the basis to say what has actually happened. I would also like to say that the Right Party and the Advance Party have the opinion that they have little willingness to inform the matter – I just have to regret that. This weakens the confidence of the Right Party and the Advance Party when they talk about anti-corruption work, when one then turns back on concrete questions. We have not received any results in this discussion of the matter, which is to get public light on the facts. We have to bet on the courts internationally, and it's a cross of thought. But at least it is clear that the Norwegian ethical idyll is broken – it is broken once again – and I hope that it will lead to an even more extensive public change of words, so that we can get further into such matters in the future. It's absolutely fundamental that the words we use should prove to mean something in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1047	The president assumes that Lundtigen meant the representative Skuttle and not Grottle.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1050	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1055	Let me, initially, as several others have done before me, stress the fact that the question of company VimpelCom, where Telenor is the second largest owner, has done something illegal or not related to the purchase of mobile licences in particular. Uzbekistan, under investigation by police in several countries. No one's so far convicted of doing anything illegal. Nevertheless, it is obvious that Telenor's ownership in VimpelCom appears to be anything but fine, and nothing from Telenor or the Ministry of Industry has been done or approached to help reveal the very serious claims made. Instead, general and reasonably non-obligatory formulations of zero tolerance against corruption and ownership principles are hidden. What this zero tolerance for corruption actually means for Telenor and Telenor's principal owner is impossible to get answers to all the time Telenor in the Committee's hearing says it's not appropriate to sell out of VimpelCom for Telenor's shareholders. Telenor’s principal shareholder is, as is known, the Norwegian State at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The logic here is hard, not to say impossible, to get hold of. A fact that is undeniable is that countries such as Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan are countries with major challenges related to corruption, democracy and human rights issues, and that VimpelCom, where three of the board members are appointed by Telenor, has kept secret agreements with central powers in these countries related to the purchase of mobile licences. The fact is also that there are documented payments in the hundreds of millions class to the straw company Takilant, owned by Uzbekistan's not fully democratically established president family of Watertrail Industries, a subsidiary of VimpelCom. In addition, there are clear, yes obvious, parallels between this case and the corresponding case relating to corruption charges against Swedish TeliaSoneras in connection with the corresponding purchase of mobile licences by this company in Uzbekistan. Here, too, the company Takilant was central to the recipient side. This disclosure concluded that four of the company’s top managers had to leave, among others. then managing director Lars Nyberg, and it was established its own parliamentary review. In the corresponding case concerning VimpelCom, the responsible are desperately trying to transfer responsibility to the administration. It doesn't look very nice. As early as 2009, Transparency International Norway warned of a solution in which Telenor was a major owner in VimpelCom, which was to be registered in Bermuda, taxes to the Netherlands and comply with the legal rules in New York, where the company is listed. On 6 October 2009, Secretary-General of Transparency International Norway, Guro Deletemark, said to the NRK: ‘We hope the problem of ownership structure and corruption will be carefully assessed. If it does not appear to conflict with the government's stated objective of combating corruption.» Here we are faced with an ongoing problem in this matter. Different government councils from different parties have always taken the information they've received from Telenor that everything is in the best order, too good fish. There is a red thread from the then state council Sylvia Brustad's opinions on the establishment and registration of VimpelCom in a tax haven as a good solution, via Trond Giske's insurances in 2012, after the matter became known in the media, that everything was in the best order, to the support of the current state council to Telenor's own statement that a kind of duty of secrecy was imposed on most of the matters relating to VimpelCom's activities – no major differences, regardless of which government you refer to. It should actually be obvious that it is important that Norwegian authorities closely monitor when partly state-owned companies organise activities in tax havens. It should be equally obvious that the same companies should be aware of what their behaviour actually contributes to when they act in countries with major challenges related to just corruption and democracy. A corruption charge against a company where one of its most important companies is minority ownership is serious and will have consequences for both the reputation of this company and the reputation of Norway as a country where there should be an actual zero tolerance for corruption. I and Left wholeheartedly support the view the majority advocates in the position we are now dealing with, when we claim that the three board members of VimpelCom who are set up by Telenor are responsible for following the same demands to work against corruption as everyone else. They had an independent responsibility to ask, ask and do everything possible to clarify transactions for which the administration is responsible, but in which critical questions can be asked. We therefore do not understand that members of the board who are nominees and derived from Telenor, who in other contexts are a company that has been praised for its work against corruption, are unable to obtain clarity in relation to which there is every reason to ask critical questions. It should be easy to access the information necessary to assess the matter correctly. That VimpelCom's administrative leader until a short time ago was also a Norwegian former Telenor employee, should not make this more complicated, to say the least. I find it almost alarming that Jon Fredrik Baksaas, who was the group leader of Telenor and at the same time the board member of VimpelCom, did not know, or would not know, what the flow of money from Waterrail to Takilant was going on. In the hearing of the Control Committee, several – also I – challenged Baksaas on this very point. I will allow myself to reproduce parts of the sequence between the undersigned and Baksaas. Although there are more than a few sentences, I take the time to do it, because it's illustrative. I quote: «Abid Q. Raja These payments that have gone from Watertrail to Takilant, what are the payments for, in your opinion? [[(V): (...)]] Jon Fredrik Baksaas: These are transactions that I didn't know had happened. [[(V):]] Abid Q. Raja That's not what I'm asking. I ask, what are the payments for, in your opinion, with the knowledge you have today? Jon Fredrik Baksaas: As VimpelCom has referred to it in its 20F reporting, these transactions are referred to as transactions on their journey into Uzbekistan. [[(V):]] Abid Q. Raja In your opinion, with the knowledge you have both as group leader in Telenor and as former member of the board of VimpelCom – what are these 55 million? the dollars pay for? Jon Fredrik Baksaas: Again: These 55 million. The dollars are a build-up of multiple transactions. [[(V):]] Abid Q. Raja That's not what I'm asking. I'm asking, what are the payments for? [[...]] [[(V):]] Jon Fredrik Baksaas: Yes, but this is what's under investigation. Abid Q. Raja From your perspective – is this corruption money or not? Jon Fredrik Baksaas: This is the kind of indistinct and the case today, it's right to ask that question, but I don't have a final answer to that, because it's under investigation. [[...]] [[(V):]] Abid Q. Raja What I don't understand, Baksaas, is: Why have Telenor's directors not known about VimpelCom's subsidiary Waterrail's payment to Takilant, even if it has happened over time? How can that be true? Have you done the job you're supposed to do for board members? Jon Fredrik Baksaas: I would say that, for it is the responsibility of the administration to implement an investment decision taken at the level of the board.» This is illustrative. In my view, the continuous presentation of Telenor as a minority winner without power and the ability to control and present the administration as the sole responsible party for questionable transactions does not stand as a believer – especially because Telenor and Baksaas, in advance of the hearing, relied on the obligation of professional secrecy regarding precisely these matters. If you did not know anything, it is quite illogical, in my opinion, to invoke a duty of professional secrecy on the same matters. Another question is how active the ministry has been in this matter. With the dramatic consequences of the corresponding disclosure in Sweden, it would be thought that there was a need for something more than a subjective explanation from the party involved — in this case Telenor. The ministry should and could be much more active and ongoing in its dialogue with Telenor. Why the Ministry has not gained more insight into the facts and put an appropriate pressure on Telenor to follow the guidelines and expectations of the owner also appear to be reasonably incomprehensible. There is a criticism that is as much addressed earlier as the current Council of State. The so-called active ownership is an illusion. This case is probably an example of the fact that companies in which the state is a major owner are actually moving forward as they please, with government directors as passive hostages. The situation is exactly the same under this government as under the previous government. Fare words that ownership is managed by clarifying expectations about the role of governments in the work of social responsibility are: beautiful words. This matter is serious. The fact that both VimpelCom and thus VimpelCom’s Norwegian board members appointed by Telenor are under investigation by police authorities in several countries warrants this. On this basis, I must express some wonder that the Right Party and the Advance Party are obviously more concerned with formalistic spicy than with the serious accusations of corruption brought by this case. It is a serious conclusion of an overall committee. A Joint Committee considers that there is insufficient evidence that measures have been taken to prevent corruption of the responsible partners of VimpelCom. It is up to the Council of State to decide what consequences this has — especially in relation to the Council of State opinions at the hearing: ‘But it must be clear that the Boards are responsible for small or large payments and it is the Board of Directors that is required to make an opinion as to whether or not they have sufficient information.’ Especially in the light of this quote from the Council of State, I look forward in excitement to the Minister of Industry's posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1146	At first, I would like to refer to Erik Skutle's excellent contribution, which is also very comprehensive on the point of view of the Progress Party in this matter. The representative, Lundtegen, made a statement that I can't just let pass. I believe he said something such as that the Right Party and the Advance Party have little willingness to settle the matter. Then they ask what kind of thing is Lundtigen thinking about? Is that how Telenor handles the VimpelCom case? Is it the Administration of Telenor by the Ministry of Economic Affairs? Or is it corruption inside VimpelCom? This matter now concerns Telenor's handling in the VimpelCom case as such. It does not apply to the claim of corruption in VimpelCom. It is the other authorities that are set to follow up. Everyone, including the Progress Party – I would just like to emphasise this – believes that corruption has a devastating effect, as this case also shows when it is a complaint against the company. However, there are always dilemmas when you get involved in companies that operate where corruption is part of everyday life. However, our authorities have called for involvement in such countries to be part of the solution, as it says. And sometimes you can get rid of difficult things that are in borderland, like this. I will also refer to our remarks in the matter itself, where we say: ‘These members will also stress that there are still no facts to justify the outcome to Telenor as a company with a lack of ‘culture of transparency and good interaction with the political institutions’. Such a judgment on Telenor's culture is directed in principle against the company's 33 000 employees who feel justified pride by being part of the construction of the company.» I believe that, in the light of the correspondence we have received, and the hearing, it would be wrong at this stage to criticise Telenor or the Ministry of Industry in this matter because the matter of corruption in VimpelCom is still under investigation. We will have great respect for the work done at the level it is being followed up. I finally want to reproduce what we have as comments in the setting until the end: ‘These members are not satisfied that the owners’ interest in zero tolerance against corruption should be unclear to those nominees from the Norwegian side to a board. These members look forward to the investigation clarifying VimpelCom’s possible liability for bribery in Uzbekistan.’; We then get back to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1173	This case is important. Firstly, it concerns the suspicion of illegality in VimpelCom, a company that Telenor has made significant investments in. Secondly, the matter concerns fundamental issues relating to State ownership policy. Thirdly, it concerns some key issues relating to the role of the Ministry. Corruption is punishable, and it is serious when there is a suspicion of corruption in VimpelCom, which is a company Telenor has significant investments in. I have clearly expressed that earlier, but I would like to repeat it here in the Chamber today. This is a serious matter. I think we all agree on that, and that is why I also believe that the commitment that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has shown in this matter is important, and that the hearing helped to highlight relevant issues. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries manages the ownership of the State in Telenor. We do that within the limits set by the Storting. As late as February this year, the framework for ownership policy was dealt with in Stortinget. As I have underlined, it means that the state makes clear expectations of the companies, that the boards of the companies are responsible for the business arrangements, and that the state, which owns, follows up the development of the companies in a continuous ownership dialogue. We have done that in this case. Let me comment on some of the comments in the position of the majority of the committee. The majority believe that the department could be more active and ongoing in its dialogue with Telenor. These representatives say that it is unclear to them why the department has not more understanding and pressured Telenor to follow the guidelines and expectations of the state that owns. The majority say that they have the impression that the department does not give priority to the department itself says it is important – the work against corruption. I disagree. In the past, both in writing and orally, I have explained in detail to the Committee for the Ministry's handling of the matter, both under former Ministers of Industry and in my time as Council of State. My responsibility as the Council of State is to be clear as to what expectations the State which owns of the company's practices and systematic efforts to prevent corruption, and to follow this up within established role-sharing framework. On the question of whether there has been an appropriate pressure on Telenor to follow the state's expectations regarding VimpelCom's entry into Uzbekistan, I point out that VimpelCom's entry into Uzbekistan occurred before my time. However, there should be no doubt that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries under my leadership has increased attention to the company's efforts to prevent corruption. Problems related to Telenor’s investment in VimpelCom and the claims related to VimpelCom’s investment in Uzbekistan have also been addressed several times with Telenor. It has been done both in regular quarterly meetings and in special meetings. The Ministry has also asked for written submissions. During the meetings, the Ministry has requested and received information, and the Ministry has also underlined the country's expectations, among others. as regards social responsibility and the fight against corruption. I would also like to point out that issues related to corruption in general have had considerable attention in the Ministry's ownership exercise in my time as the Council of State. Last year I called a separate meeting with the directors of companies with State ownership about just corruption, and the importance of avoiding corruption has been a major concern in the ownership dialogue with individual companies. We have also submitted a statement of ownership in which we have strengthened the expectations of the board at this point. The majority of the Committee subscribes to the main points of the ownership notification addressed by the Stortingen in February of this year. This is a framework for which there has been a longer-term cross-political agreement. There are also frameworks that set limits on what the country can and should do. The majority of the committee also claims that I have uncritically supported Telenor's assessments in this matter. The role of the Ministry in this matter has been to assess how the Telenor board has dealt with its responsibilities and role. Of course, it has been necessary to obtain information and get answers to questions from Telenor in order to make this assessment. The information and assessments I have obtained from Telenor, I have also communicated the main points further to the Committee. That I have disclosed and partly referred to information from Telenor does not, of course, mean that the department has not made an independent assessment of the information. For example, I want to do this. refer to my letter to the Committee dated 24 February of this year, where, on questions raised by the Committee on the Evaluation of Members of the Board of Directors of VimpelCom, which was nominated by Telenor, its handling of the matter, inter alia. Commented: ‘From this point of view, it may seem that further questions could and should have been raised by the members of the Board of Directors, both when the investment decision was taken and afterwards when the issues arose’. Professional secrecy has received a lot of attention in this matter, including in the Committee's position. The majority indicate that I should have shared Telenor's view that they were subject to professional secrecy with both the public and the Stortinget. Firstly, it is not that Telenor has relied on the obligation of professional secrecy in this case. It's VimpelCom's board member who's done it. Secondly, the obligation of professional secrecy of board members of listed companies is well known and is, inter alia, recognised. justified by legitimate interests of the company and its shareholders. It is the individual member of the board who has assumed a personal legal and financial responsibility by entering into a board and therefore has to assess for himself how far the obligation of professional secrecy goes in specific cases. The ministry can't do that. I find that the former member of the board of VimpelCom, Jon Fredrik Baksaas, chose to set aside the obligation of professional secrecy when he explained himself at the committee hearing on the matter in January. It is a matter for which he himself is legally responsible, and with which an assessment he himself must and must make as a member of the board. I have encouraged the company and its representatives to be as open as possible in this case. Of course, business does not stand above politics and democratic institutions. However, if the State wants to be the owner of commercial companies together with other owners, it must do so on the premises that are common in the market and within generally accepted principles of good ownership and management. This basic approach is also reflected in the main framework of state ownership policy, as demonstrated by the ownership communication, which has led to the proliferation of economies of scale and governments over a number of years. As much transparency as possible should be expected from key trustees in state-owned companies, both in this type of case and in general. But that does not mean that we can have a general expectation that these persons will break legal obligations that they are subject to through trust in companies and where they risk legal proceedings if they break such obligations. I note that parts of the Committee seem to be of the opinion that both the Ministry and the Committee are to take up the role of investigating authority and to establish whether or not criminal proceedings have taken place. In this case, there is a major investigation in three countries to clarify the situation. In my opinion, the Ministry shall not investigate any criminal offences. In conclusion, let me say that the majority claims that it is unfortunate that I do not see the value of the fact that the Storting, as a democratic institution, engages in such a serious matter. Let me therefore stress that I think it is positive that the Committee on Control and Constitution has been involved in the matter and has thereby helped to raise important issues. I also made that clear in the Committee's hearing. I also believe that it is important and understandable that attention be paid to the department's ownership of a matter like this. At the same time, it must be the framework under which the State's ownership policy and exercise and to which the Storting itself has joined must be based on an assessment of the ministry's handling of the case. Finally, let me also be clear that of course I respect and relate to the majority in this matter, even though I have used my democratic right to assert my disagreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1226	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1229	Now the Council of State said quite at the bottom of her speech that she respected and understood what was being said. I want to start with it anyway, because we have not made a proposal for a decision, and we thought that there was no basis for that either, so I don't want to stress that point in any way. But I would like to stress that when a majority in the Grand Duchy has such a fundamental criticism, as we have put forward both in comments and in this Chamber, and as the Council of State itself has now overheard, we just have to ask the very specific question: does it mean that the Council of State will now comply with this majority criterion and, in the future, ensure that the ownership department and the practice of the ministry will follow this criticism?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1234	I concluded by making sure, and I'd like to repeat that. So at the same time, it's the ownership message that Storting treated, that sets the framework for our exercise of ownership. So I'm dealing with the majority in this room, both in this case and in other matters, it's quite obvious, but at the same time I think it's important to point out the points where I disagree, and I've also explained that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1239	I fully respect the fact that the Council of State has every opportunity to disagree – that is not what I say, in and on its own – but the point is that there is no contradiction between the ownership message and the majority comment. On the contrary, it is the majority comment that is consistent with the ownership messages of this government and former governments. That's why I ask again, because I'm a little unsure whether the answer is yes or no, whether it's a yes without reservation or a yes: will the government council and the ownership department in the department now make sure that we don't get any more issues of this nature, and – if it happens – that they themselves come to the Stortinget with the matter, and that we don't have to read about it in the media?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1246	Yes, I think the representative and I interpret the ownership message differently. I mean, for example. that the department does not have a role as investigating authority. I find that a majority believe we have, and I have to deal with that, so I can say for the third time that of course I am referring to a majority in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1251	Then I don't think we're going to get to that point right now, I'm going to come back to it in a later article in the debate. On 29 April, in the evening post, the then group leader Baksaas – yes, he is still the group leader in Telenor, I think – had a post where he suddenly takes violent self-criticism. He didn't do it in the hearing, and he didn't do it in his correspondence with the department, which was the basis of the Council of State's letter to us, but he does it there, and there he says, for example.: «With lessons from the VimpelCom case, we are now taking further steps to strengthen ownership management in such companies.» And: «As the owner, Telenor will always expect the administration of the companies in which we are partners to comply with the rules and values laid down by the board of directors of the company.» That's what he's saying now. And then the question to the Council of State -- she's going to get the chance to comment and elaborate on this in the Storting: Is this unprofessional?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1260	No, I haven't stated that Baksaas' statements, as I also read in the paper, are unprofessional. On the contrary, it is well that we all learn from serious matters and try to improve our routines.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1265	That was, of course, a rhetorical question, because that's exactly what we're saying is necessary, and as the Council of State in Today's Business has characterized as unprofessional. That's what I want to bottom up in, because that's what we're saying is necessary, and that's what we're criticising hasn't happened – as Baksaas now comes up with later. And the Council of State allowed itself to characterize the majority of the Storting as unprofessional. That's what I want to bottom up in. She gets the chance to comment on it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1270	The representative was given an answer to what he asked for, and the question was whether Baksaas’ posts were unprofessional. I am of the opinion that the committee has the impression that I do not think it was right that the control committee should deal with this matter. It's directly wrong, it's directly in conflict with what I said to the committee. The Committee also has the impression that I am not taking this seriously. It's directly wrong. I've had my own meetings with all the directors of the state companies, I've had eight meetings on this matter with Telenor. I have also received two written statements in addition to the meetings I have had after the examination of the case by the Control Committee, so I take this very seriously. It's very serious. I said it at the hearing, and I've repeated this today. So on a number of points, it's my opinion that the impression the committee has is not based on what I've said or what I've done. I've expressed my disagreement with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1279	I do not hear that the Council of State answers my question. Is she wrong in today's business when she says that the majority of the Storting is acting unprofessional, or isn't she? We need to know that, because we do not, of course, accept that the Council of State thinks we are unprofessional. She adheres to Baksaas’ formulations, which are the same as we have, because we believe it is necessary for Telenor. Then it's not unprofessional, but what we've meant is unprofessional. It's that characteristic and the way to act that I don't accept, and that I'll again ask the Council of State what she actually thinks about. The second thing I want to say – because we're not going to hold on for so long – is that it's true that the Council of State says she's had a lot of meetings with Telenor. That's right -- we've seen that. What is our criticism is that you accept that there will be no black adequate on the questions that are being asked, and the department accepts it. That's what our criticism is.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1286	I note that we fundamentally disagree on how the department has behaved. We have received answers to the questions we have asked, but we accept that even the police authorities in three countries have not found answers. Then it is alarming that we believe that we should find an answer to something that is under investigation. I've repeated this many times. Of course, it's tempting to talk and wonder. I have to deal with the fact that there is a big, complicated investigation going on, and I don't want to speculate, I want a conclusion about what has actually happened. I have also said that there are good reasons why this investigation is actually going on, that is quite obvious. As for my statements to the press, they're based on the fact that I see a majority have an idea of what I haven't said, which I haven't done. I have expressed my disagreement, both here today and to the newspapers. It is also part of our democracy that we can disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1294	I'm going to get back to this relationship between the department and the police in a later article, because it doesn't go in a row. I would just like to conclude by saying that the Council of State has not disputed what has been said here today, namely that about 700 million. kr has been transferred to this single-wife company. What would the Council of State characterize it as?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1299	I have a feeling that the representative will now invite me to a description of criminal relations. I just have to repeat: we can mean a lot about what it looks like, and we can speculate about it, but if this was a criminal relationship and the conclusion was drawn, we would have got a response from the police. The amount has been debated here today. What we've been told is that the amount is equal to what is paid for licences of this type. We have also been told how these invoices are going on, and then we can all think a lot about this. But I'm waiting for those who have the authority to figure it out, and those who have the authority to pass judgment in the case. I don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1306	It came out in the hearing, this with the payment of 700 million. kr to this person in Gibraltar, and the representative from Telenor was told that it was payment for their journey into Uzbekistan. I've never heard such a way to tell what one pays for, before. Does the Council have any comments on a payer’s entry into a country for goods or services? What kind of culture is that?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1311	To be clear, of course, we've asked Telenor what knowledge they have about this. We have been told – and it was also given to the committee – how the board deals with these transactions, about a division of labour between the board and the administration, even though all of this is the responsibility of the board. I can't go into the details of this. The Ministry has not approved these payments. This is not what Telenor has done. This is the WimpelCom that has done. We can – once again – speculate and think a lot about it, but there is a police investigation going on just to reveal any criminal relationship. What I have asked about is whether the amount should be written off in special circumstances, and I have then been told that this amount is of such a nature that it would be consistent with what you pay for a licence, and that was also what we got the impression that this had happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1318	Just one simple question: does the Council accept such a language in response to a question?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1323	We've got answers to a lot of questions. In particular, Telenor’s board members actively addressed WimpelCom, both in writing and in meetings, required an answer. There have been investigations where these matters have been addressed, and it has been explained that there have been no findings that are contrary to the law. It is an answer I must of course take note of whether it is correct or wrong. My task is to investigate to what extent Telenor and Telenor's board members have taken this seriously, have activated, have rules, systems and a culture to reveal relationships. But as the chairman well said, he had no police authority, and he came no further than what he told the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1328	After the Storting's Rules of Procedure, the Council of State may say that she does not want to answer that question. Here the Council of State answers, but she does not answer the question. My question is about the answer of 700 million. kr as payment for a journey into Uzbekistan is an answer that the Council of State considers to be satisfactory. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1333	That's not the answer I got on this amount, and that's what I'm explaining. I can answer for the information I have received from the Board of Directors of Telenor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1338	But this is the answer that was given in Stortingen's verification hearing. As a member of the Control Committee, I must be told whether such an answer in the control hearing of the Storting is a good answer for the Council of State on such an essential point.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1343	We're not coming anymore. This answer was given in a context where it was explained that the board member did not have knowledge of the transfer and a division of labour between the board and the administration, which is common in companies, also related to the amount. The answer is that I take note of the information provided by the board member in the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1348	We don't get to that point, I understand. One last question. The council says that she has taken that matter seriously, and a number of meetings have been held. I don't doubt it. My question, then, is: what has been the impact on culture of lack of transparency and on those who have been involved in this? Has this case had any concrete consequences?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1356	In general, one of the first things I met was the Yara case, in January 2014. It issued a call for all the directors of the state companies, because I take this question seriously. Then we got an investigation into another company, the Kongsberg Group. So the Telenor thing came up. It has the consequence that work against corruption is strengthened. Our expectations for the work of the board have been strengthened, and it was last adopted by a majority of the majority of the board, based on the big news we provided about state ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1361	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1364	Today's debate, some speeches, and not least the last perpetuity – I would say – in replying illustrates very well why one distinguishes between judicial activities and political debate, and why we should be happy not to have political courts, because that is precisely the case when one has to assess relationships, a few introductions. First of all, it's to keep track of the party relationship. The State Council has been set up to deal with the matter on behalf of the Community is the Norwegian State’s holding in Telenor. But we constantly experience that there is full identification, without reservation, between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Telenor. That's not right. The country has made significant gains in listing the company and is subject to the same reporting and information regime resulting from operating in a holding company. The next thing that happens is that there is full identification between the company with which the state has a share, and Telenor and its minority investment in VimpelCom. There is again full identification. I agree with those who have said that the very backscraper here, what has emerged in the paper, is very serious, and that it is very understandable that three countries' police authorities are conducting an extensive police investigation, that seizures have been made in Switzerland, etc. But it's precisely in these contexts that you know the truth will come to light, and that our pre-hypotheses might have to wait a while. I don't overlook the fact that the case may have even greater dimensions than what you've imagined in advance, or that there are other aspects that will afterwards do this vision – I call it visualization, not because there's something wrong in it in and of itself, but you can't build the facts on what's not documented, and a documentation in the Storting with a newspaper article like the source is of course a debate call, but it doesn't hold to establish the facts, it's the other thing that does, and it's the functional distribution. I would encourage the representatives to think a little bit through the concept of corruption, because it is precisely not following the rules of the game that are necessary for one's own institutions to function. In the rest of the world, we see that there are people who buy influence to influence decisions so that they don't become legal. But we also need to look out for the opposite pair of corruption and integrity. They're the opposite of each other. Therefore, we also need to make sure that we are not anxious to score political points or what the motives may be, short-circuiting our own institutions, that we cannot wait for what is being mapped – I am convinced – so that we can get an overall review when the time comes: What has the regime in VimpelCom known? What is it to correct remorse for VimpelCom? And later on, how active has ownership been from Telenor? What has Telenor's management known? And finally, what does the Ministry of Economic Affairs have, at the different times, right? That's why we come back to this matter – I'm sure – because then we can also give a fair and factual assessment of the various councils' management based on what has been available knowledge at the times when the majority of people have intended to correct them. That's how it has to be. This case is not finished, and it would be as unreasonable to make decisions today as it would be for someone to rule out e.g.. The representative Kolberg's view of Norwegian participation in future football championships based on what is known from the newspapers. It would have been equally natural, but I do not demand to miss out on any point of opinion from the representative Kolberg. But we can have some hypothesis, if you have zero tolerance for corruption.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1375	The representative Tetzschner said a moment ago that it might be the desire to score cheap political points that were some of the driving force. I would like to refute and say so that the representative Tetzschner and Stortinget hear it, that I believe that this criticism, which in this context is directed towards what is currently happening and which has happened under the leadership of the State Council of Malta, could also be directed at former states councils. If the President allows it – and I do not think that is in conflict with his «bank list» – I would like to say that, ladies and gentlemen, we are actually in the same boat. And what's regrettable is that the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party in this context, but especially the government's representatives – read: the ministry – are in the trap that they use all their powers to defend themselves instead of playing with us to find out what this is all about. I don't understand that they don't. Why this violent legal argument and the constructed arguments that it's so important to make, when it's so obvious that there's owls in the swamp? Why not take an active view that we should not have any of this? Why can't the Council of State say this in Stortinget? Why does she have to refer to the police investigation, which we all support? We know about it, and we're happy about the involvement of the police, but this isn't a courtroom, this is Norway's big business, and here we can have our political views on this obscurity called corruption. It's an obscurity. And when we see the turn of it, related to our activities in Norway, it has to be turned down and given the political characteristics that it deserves. That's what we've been trying to do. And then there'll be police research, police investigation, police investigation. I don't think the representatives of the Right Party or the Advance Party or the Government mean anything else about corruption than what I do. I know everyone, and I know that that's not the case. So it's not necessary to crawl into the trenches in the way that more people do, but as the Council of State, of course, especially in this context, at this moment, at this time, is responsible for and makes itself the spokeswoman for. That's what I'm criticizing. I don't know if the council will say anything more, she has to choose that freely. I've been with a while, I can also manage, I know how such things like this work, and it's in many ways the most serious, namely that it's right, as the council says, that she's asked questions. But what's reprehensible is that they accept that they don't get answers. It's okay that Telenor in this context says, "No, we can't answer this, because it's subject to some kind of legal confidentiality somewhere." Just as if there is someone in a state company who has the right to say in any way: No, we don’t have to answer the Norwegian Storing or our owner, because we are subject to some kind of professional secrecy – listen to the husband! People who have been appointed by the Norwegian government by the Royal Resolution to operate the company on behalf of the state – and then the Council of State will accept that she will not receive a reply and will have to come to the Parliament of Norway and say: I accept that I will not receive an answer. It is then, ladies and gentlemen, I say that we are all in the same boat. It is the authority of the people's power that is then subjected to an entirely undemocratic pressure. I notice that few are interested in this – we are almost alone here – despite the fact that this is one of the really serious issues dealt with in the Storting in this session, precisely because it has all these principles in it. To put it directly – and I'm going to relate it again to previous governments, so I don't want to be misunderstood here, but I know it: it's the elected communities that are going to govern these companies through the governments, and the council says, correctly, that the governments are responsible. At the same time, she says in a careful way, and it's good, that the board members should perhaps be more vigilant when they saw what was going on – act-provoking. Of course, they were supposed to be on record, they would definitely stop it, and if they couldn't stop it, they would have come to the state immediately and said that something is going on here that shouldn't happen, and not start a long tiger trying to cover it, so that we sit here and have a hard time getting the truth out. Why should it be so in an open political democracy? That's how it shouldn't be. And without perhaps the State Council of Malta believes it, I'm more in her party than she thinks. She was supposed to throw in the support she gets from the majority of the Stortinges, and told Telenor that now I'm in trouble, because now I have the majority of the Stortinges against me, now we really have to try to do something about this – instead of saying police research, police investigation, police investigation. There is no response — to this political challenge of corruption at national and international level. This is the case, this is the case, not everything else, about letters here and letters there. We don't want this in Norway, we don't want state companies to be close to this practice, and that's what this debate documents and emphasizes. Then I hear that representatives of the Progress Party and the Right defend their State Council as they do. I accept that, and I understand what the representative Michael Tetzschner is saying here about the relationship between police and other authority fields – I understand that. But anyway, we're the owners, and in this case it's about a large national company, which is somehow involved in this. I just want to end by saying that I do not hear on this basis that someone has pushed back the argument we have – not in the setting, nor in the hall. I just mean that the Council of State will take this with me. And the department's representatives, who are also present here, are going to take it with them. It is not the case that elected communities and the political leadership of the department should not be informed immediately and without delay when we have such circumstances as this going on. Then we're going to know, because we're not going to have to have this development. I'm absolutely sure there's only one force that can prevent it, and that's openness and the power of the people's power. No one else is going to guard those principles if we don't. And if this case might have served any purpose, it's that we've managed to put our foot down at this point, and that it gives a signal outwards to those who follow this. That's what everybody who's affected by it does, I'm sure. Although they're not here – which they should actually be – they hear what we're saying. We are the ones chosen by the people to decide these things – they are the ones who are going to follow us, and not the other way around. I don't listen to legal swirling pipes that argue that they're not allowed to tell us the truth.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1402	The next speaker is Councillor Monica Meland, who has a speaking time of up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1405	President, I have to be extraordinarily short. But it's clear that when you're accused of operating with a legal spin pipe, at least two brief comments are demanded from me. We are invited here to sentence, to determine what has happened, based on suspicion. It's produced as a strange and spinning pipe when we're not willing to do this in the Stortinget. Then I just have to say: precisely because I take the Storting seriously, precisely because I take the state of law seriously, I am concerned that things should be done correctly. It is not a legal swirl pipe – it is about law and order, the principles of the rule of law. I insist that I attend the police investigation. I can mean a lot about the matter, I can speculate about the matter, but I make it clear: it is the police and the court that have to pass a judgment. So it's not right, even though it's repeated, that I've accepted no information, that I've accepted that there is no answer to questions because it's a duty of confidentiality. I inform you that the obligation of professional secrecy exists, and I inform you that it is personal to members of the board of directors. This is well known to everyone. However, I have also repeatedly informed the inspection committee that I received an answer to all the questions I asked. So this wasn't a problem. I note that the hearing of the Control Committee did not reveal anything that we did not know before, because we received answers to these questions. When the majority of the committee has an impression and it is not based on what I have said and explained, we simply do not agree on this point, except that we fully agree that the work against corruption is important, it is crucial, and it should actively influence our ownership dialogue in our follow-up to the companies, and it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1414	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1428	I can promise, President, that this will not be a debate as long as the previous one! This is a case of changes to the Unit Register Act. The legislative proposals are based on a consultation note drawn up in cooperation between the Brønnøsund Registers and the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. The proposal contains proposals for amendments to the legislation on documentation requirements for registration in the Entity Register. The proposals also contain changes to correct errors in the entity register law, the company register law and the company name law. This means that it is no longer necessary to record information about co-owners in property associations, nor will they need to update the information. For the Unit Registry, this proposed change will facilitate the control and registration of joint ventures. These proposals do not result in the need for changes in the computer system and have no financial impact on the Brønn Island Health Registers. It will also have no financial or administrative consequences to correct errors in the law. This is briefly explained by a simplification of business, association and entity registers. It was sent at the hearing of the Ministry on 20 November 2014, with a deadline of 20 January this year. Of the hearing replies that came, there were only positive answers, no negative ones. The Economic and Social Committee unanimously supports these amendments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1443	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1459	It's been 70 years since the release, something to celebrate with joy, to be used to remember. It's our common story, and many people also have their own little story associated with it – as I do. My grandfather came back with the white buses from Sachsenhausen in May 1945. Nine months later my father was born, but then my grandfather was already dead from the damage from Sachsenhausen. But it's also important to look at those who end up on the shadows after the war, and it should be possible 70 years later. Some 55,000 Nordics were members of the National Collection, NS, and an estimated serious fact that they may have had about 100,000 children. In comparison, between 1940 and 1946, 10,000 and 12,000 war children were born, sometimes called German children. Like the war children, many NS children were frozen and bullied in the post-war period, and many experienced both harassment and isolation. Many of the harassment occurred in the school, with teachers as passive envoys or active participants. The NS children are overrepresented in statistics related to mental disorders. One of them was the anonymized ‘Johan’ NS child, whom Liv Mørland referred to as an example in a 2009 lecture: ‘The harassment did not end with peace and legal settlement, so it was also difficult for Johan to meet childhood friends and classmates again as adults. Even after many years of volunteering as an adult, he was still not allowed to carry the flag of the 17th May train." The war children have had an official cause, including: through the creation of a compensation scheme for them. NS children have not been given an official cause in the same way. In addition, there is research and writing much more about war children than about NS children. The big picture section writes in a review they've done, that the N.S. children today are still a far more sensitive subject than the war children. That's also my impression. Someone wants to talk about the background and their experiences. Others want to distance themselves from it. Too many of them, and too many of them, it's a difficult theme. Many demand a stronger commitment and a clearer recognition from Norwegian authorities, but not all. NS-children first introduced to public opinion in 1988 in Asgeir Olden's book "Born Guilty". In 1993 the autobiography «Gutten fra Gimle» came from Eystein Eggen. The book weighed a lot of attention and recognition and demonstrated that it was difficult to grow up as an NS child. In 2002, the book «De ze ze os naziyngel» came from Baard H. Borge, who wrote about the history of the NS children from 1940 to 2002. The closest NS children have come a formal cause, is probably the speech to Grand President Kirsti Kolle Grondahl at the 50th anniversary of the end of the war, May 8, 1995: « Today we see more clearly that there were suffering on both sides of the front. [[...]] That's also one of the reasons why not all of the Nordics are taking a full part in our joy today. I think of those who have suffered because their fathers chose crazy side during the war. [[...]] It was very important that it was said. It was a sentence that meant something to some people. Some have also interpreted it as a formal cause, but most may not do so, and have called for a stronger and clearer indication of the treatment of the NS children, such as the treatment of the NS children. appeared in a debate series in Morgenbladet in 2009. Former Chief Editor Thor Bjarne Bore announced in January 2014 that at the 200th anniversary of the Constitution in 2014, Norway should be able to recognise and complain about the innocents who were taken off by the draft after the resolution of the country, and give the Nazi children an official reason. One of those who have been strongly involved in this issue is Finn Wagle, who was a bishop in Nidaros until 2008 and for several years is being held in the Norwegian Church. In a talk at Falstad on January 7th this year, he said it this way: «Many of the adults of the war generation let their hatred go out to the Germans and the NS go out to these children in the years following the war. Many of the children later told me that the school was bad. It could be about broken clothes and nosebleeds. It could be about bullying that adults let happen, in the schoolyard and in the classroom. [[...]] The NS children were a vulnerable group in post-war Norway. They had done nothing wrong, but were treated as if they were born guilty. They were different and different, subject to stigmatisation, freezing and bullying.’ An important and understandable part of the Home Front's work in Norway was an ice front against NS members. It's just as easy to understand today. But it's not okay for the children to suffer for it for decades after the war is over. No one, and at least I, would like to apologize to the NS and their members. But it is not right for children to suffer for their parents ’ choices. The war children have had a clear, formal cause. It never has the NS children. It's been 70 years since the release. It's time for reconciliation! Will the government come up with a cause for the NS children on behalf of the Norwegian community, and will the Minister of Justice in other ways follow up this important theme?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1498	Let me first say that it's been 70 years since the liberation of Norway, and we're going to celebrate with great joy. We've done that, and we're going to do that in the future. We're going to allow that. So I think that's reason to thank the interpellant for addressing an important issue. He's raising up an important part of Norway's history, and I also think that the post held the interpellant was a thoughtful and reflective post around some of the questions that we're discussing very little this year like this. There is no doubt that many children of Norwegian NS members have had a hard time after the war. Too many have suffered for their parents ’ choices before and during the war. Many were bullied, harassed and outcast after the war and have struggled with mental distress and shame throughout their lives. Unfortunately, there have not been good enough forces to capture and help all these fates. How Norwegian society treats the NS children after the war should be something we learn from and measure by. Unfortunately, however, many of these fates have taken place — and are still going on — in the hidden, inter alia. because any of those who have been subjected to this treatment will not or will not be open. Maybe we'll never really know the full extent of NS's suffering. It also says a little bit about what many of these have been through in growth, and what they've dragged with them through a whole life. The interpellant specifically asks whether there will be an official excuse on the part of the government for the wrongs suffered by the Nazi children in connection with the 70th anniversary of the release of Norway. The interpellant draws a comparison both in the interpellation and also in the post today with the war children, who received an official excuse from the authorities for the 50th anniversary of the liberation of Norway. The fate of war children, those who were born between 1940 and 1946 with German or Austrian fathers, and the NS children have many similarities, but there are also differences. On 8 May 1995, on the 50th anniversary of the liberation, President Kirsti Kolle Grondahl mentioned, among others: the treatment to which the NS-children and German children were exposed after the war. After Stortingen's consultation, the Grand President read out the following text, which I will also allow myself to quote something from, for an overall hall: «And today we see more clearly that there were suffering on both sides of the front. That's also one of the reasons why not all of the Nordics are taking a full part in our joy today. I think here of those who have suffered because their fathers chose crazy side during the war and of those who were born with a German soldier as father. 50 years later, we must also be able to say that the self-justice exercised in the days of liberation against the so-called ‘Germans’ does not belong to the most honorable chapters of our post-war history.» I'm joining this. The war children, as mentioned above, have received an official apology. There has been a separate compensation scheme. In this context, the then Ministry of Social and Health of Norway’s Research Council was given the opportunity to develop a knowledge status in which the claims of the war children’s organisations were reviewed and answered as far as possible, based on available material. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, as it was then called, was also involved in obtaining information about the growth of war children in postwar Norway. An official apology should be related to errors committed by the public. In order to have a concrete feeling of negligence on the part of the public authorities, the government will now carry out a review of the matter and possibly come back to the question of how the state should deal with the NS children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1520	I thought it was both a welcome and very positive post to the right, which, first of all, contained a real recognition of the challenge and the situation we are facing, and I believe that the Council of State and I myself describe the main picture relatively equally. I also think that just the fact that the Council of State comes here and keeps it that way with such a clear recognition, is a positive contribution to it. Then it happens on behalf of Norwegian authorities here in Stortinget. I also agree that when a compares war children and NS children, they have many similarities, but also some differences. I agree with that. A clear difference is enough, I think, that the number of those who were war children, who got it very tough, was very high. By comparison, a lot of children of NS members could avoid it to a greater extent. But it's probably also so that we know a little bit less about the situation of a lot of NS kids, and that it might also be a little bit harder to figure it out. I thought we should aim for Norway to be able to give a general apology to NS children at some point on the basis of the stories and documentation we now have. But I want to say that I still think it's the right way to handle it, that a first person on the authority's side does a review of the case. I didn't expect one to do it over here and now. The initiative taken by the Minister of Justice will be a very good start. I hope that he will also follow it up and pay attention to what is going on, and that it is possible to come back to it in some way. Making a more systematic review I believe in itself will be important in this field from the authorities' side.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1529	I would like to thank the interpellant for good words and a good initiative. I think the representative, Mr Solhjell, is also well aware of some of the challenges facing us in implementing a complaint over time. We have little knowledge. We have examined whether there have been relevant cases in relevant departments related to this earlier. It has been very difficult to find something that in a way underpins a level of knowledge that we should really have. We've tried to find the necessary statistics, but there's little statistics about this issue, and there's been little research in this area, on which the interpellant was also involved. This makes this review a difficult one for which we are now taking the initiative, and there are many who have to contribute to that review. Not least, the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion will play a very central role, as well as the fact that other departments will have to be important to get the knowledge we actually need in such a matter as this. So this is an initiative that the government will follow up on, and I am glad that the interpellant did not expect there to be a complaint over the table. This is an important issue, and it is necessary to follow a process, which I think will lead to that we will be able to get back to this in a proper and good way. In addition, it will follow up part of the method that was used prior to the release of the war children to the official excuse 50 years after the release.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1538	First, I want to thank the interpellant for bringing a very important theme into the staging room, a theme that has often been sprayed down, and that too many are a dark chapter in our history. History deals with individual creatures – people who have had the peculiar difficulty in their first years of life, but who have also been influenced by that for the rest of their lives. As I said, approx. 55,000 Northmen were members of the NS. They had an estimated 100,000 children. Researchers have compared the bullying of their children by NS members, the so-called NS children, with the bullying of Jewish children in Germany in the 1930s. There were several decades before the NS children dared to stand up with their stories, and even today many feel ashamed to have parents who have been NS members. For some, this may be a distant problem that does not concern us as a society. But the debate is doing it to the highest degree. This is about what kind of nation we want to be, and then I'm glad that the council here is giving a positive signal. Everyone makes their own choices, but one should not initially take the consequences of the other choices, and at least the kids should not have to do it. These children did not choose their parents, nor should these children be responsible for their parents ’ choices. The war in Norway naturally weighed strong feelings, he created anger and frustration, and many Norwegian citizens were exposed to incomprehensible events. This also marked the mood of Norway in the years after the war, and it also marked those who experienced this, all their lives. The war ended before the war. Those who had wronged the nation were held responsible for their actions. That's the way it must be in a society. Punishment was measured and grandsons. It is unfortunate, then, that some children and young people had their childhood destroyed as a result of their parents ’ choices. They really got a sentence that they hadn't done any criminal acts to get. This made it difficult to live a normal life for those children. Many of these children experienced a situation through growth that is impossible for us to understand. They were subjected to bullying and harassment, not only from other children, but also from adults. That's why it's very gratifying for me, too, that the Council of State signals that one will deal with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1555	I think we can make it so short as to say I look forward to this review. I'm going to follow it myself and hope that it will happen at a reasonable rate as well. In addition to the various public authorities that need to be involved, I hope that there can be involvement of the groups of NS-children who are concerned about this, the individuals who have stories to tell, and that this can lead to both a greater awareness of the situation of the NS-children, and – eventually – perhaps also that the authorities approve this more formally, in the form of a cause.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1562	I can join the interpellant's starting point. That was also the starting point when the children of war were excused. Then there was the commitment that both individuals and organisations had shown, which was the basis for the review that happened. It's natural that they were involved in a proper way. Then I finally want to say that perhaps especially in a year like this, we all know that the war is really not so far away, through parents, grandparents and others, through the history descriptions we get served in the anniversary year – at good and bad. We're carrying it pretty close, even though it's been a long time. So this might have been a sore topic. I think it has been very good that the representative Solhjell has used the opportunity to give the Storting the opportunity to debate this and the government the opportunity to come back to this in this way. Then we'll follow it up in a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1569	The debate on substance is closed. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1585	Interpellation is based on an alarming notice in the Evening Post on 2 May, which was also referred to in the interpellation text. It can be further elaborated by the fact that the press has mentioned that the perpetrators are weekly kicked, beaten and spit on, that according to Rome, Eiendom, the problem of violent youth gangs has increased sharply in recent years, and that it is generally believed that these violent youths make the area unsafe, not least on weekends. April surveillance videos show how young people are fighting for the open stage at Oslo Central Station. Some have been whipped with belts, while others are turned in their heads. The videos also show the run by daylight day. The Weights Log shows that weights are exposed to violence and threats weekly, and some are also persecuted after working hours. According to the log last year, the police had to assist weight gainers more than 300 times, so it's a pretty high-frequency incident. On weekends, the area acts as a magnet for young people who are not necessarily based in Oslo either, and criminal key individuals down to the age of 16 form parts of this environment. Child protection efforts may also be relevant here. Young people down to the age of 12 to 13 are smoking strong drugs, and in several cases young people have been bullied and blackmailed by other young people for money and mobile phones. There have been ten attacks in the last reporting period where there was a knife on the perpetrator, and some selected sites also act as informal youth clubs. According to Signe Horn, who is the director of Rome Eiendom, the police have not prioritised this because of other urgent tasks in the area. Now it is possible to read in the paper that negotiations have been conducted on a new police reform, and some of what has been the review tone there is what coverage we should have in our long-term country – that is, how we can have some police force everywhere. Here it is – I would say – the opposite issue; here is the focal point concentration, the concentration of problems, the presence of crime, the presence of quite serious integrity crime, the movement of illegal substances, and it is the concentration of ordinary, law-abiding people. 150 000 of our fellow citizens follow the authority's call to travel collectively. Of course, they have a natural expectation of being protected in their normal everyday life, and it must also be one of the foremost things that the rule of law should be able to offer ordinary, out-of-work citizens. I also mention that as Oslo S is an entrance sport for those who come from the Gardermoen, it could also be an area where it is very relevant to make a more detailed check of whether the stay in Norway is lawful, and not contrary to entry and exit requirements. I want to end this little deepening by asking the Council of State if not also the Council of State sees that it might be a very important contribution to making the fight against crime more effective to have a permanent police station at Oslo S.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1600	Let me first say that I appreciate the fact that the representative Tetzschner addresses this situation, which is important for both Oslo citizens and a number of citizens who are travelling from elsewhere. The Oslo Central Station is Norway's most busy railway station, measured in number of travellers, and there are about 150 000 travellers each day, on which the representative Tetzschner himself was inside, passing through the station. I have submitted this question to the Police Directorate, who has again obtained information from the Oslo Police District. Oslo police districts state that they are not fully aware of the description given by the Evening Post on 2 May 2015. The police district has also been in contact with the Municipality of Oslo, which is of the same opinion. Oslo Police District further informs that registered reviews within the categories life, body, health, ran, extortion, gross and simple thefts have been reduced at Oslo Central Station and the area around to date this year compared to the same period in 2014. Overall, the number of reviews in the Oslo police district decreased by 13.6 p.m. from 2013 to 2014, and there was a decrease in the vast majority of crime categories. A total of 38 712 reviews were recorded for profit – a decrease of 19.1 pst. compared to 2013. Over the last two years, there has been a decrease of over 16 000 reviews. The number of reviews for ran and extortion showed a decrease of about 42 pst in 2014. compared to 2013, i.e. approx. 412 fewer reviews. It was a decline in both simple and rough personality. Since December 2011, there have been regular police officers at a separate police post at Oslo Central Station. The police department reports that about 30 officials work from this police station. Every day, the station and the areas around it are patrolled by both uniformed and civil police to prevent crime and to maintain order and order. In addition, foreign controls. The Oslo Police District has established a close dialogue with the Department and has regular contact with the guards at the Central Station. The Oslo Police Commissioner has put in place a comprehensive and long-term effort against all types of crime in the open drug settings in Oslo, in close cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo and many of the central volunteer organisations in the city. The priority strategic areas of Oslo Police Districts include: the following: visible and accessible police prevent child and youth crime and combat criminal loop structures intensifying efforts to address the economic crime of a city without obvious drug traffickers preventing and combating rape preparedness to deal with major incidents On 4 May 2015, Oslo Police District attended a meeting under the direction of the U.S. Department. The aim of the meeting was to strengthen cooperation between the various actors in order to better attract exchange in the work of children and young people in Oslo Centre. Other participants included: organisations such as Riverside Youth House, Youth Team City of Old Oslo, SubScene, Rome Eiendom, Oslo S, Noka's Weighting Services, Sporet – Church City Mission, ORKIS, Red Cross, Sallto Coordinator, City of St. Hanshaugen and Grünerløkka Street Team. The police also, in cooperation with Red Cross, have dialogue with the weights at Oslo Central Station, among others. to enhance their competence in street traffic management. The government has given priority to increasing the budget of the police in the last two years. The Oslo Police District has been allocated funds for about 80 new police posts in order to add fully trained police students from the Police College and seven new prosecutors in 2015. In addition, some 30 new annual works have been allocated to the Oslo Police District for increased police operations in the field of foreign affairs, in particular targeting the open drug environment. Increased police personnel is a priority task for the government. It is an objective to achieve the target of an average of two police officers and women per 1000 inhabitants during 2020. It will also ensure that the Oslo police force becomes even more robust for the future. As mentioned above, since its accession, the government has given priority to the police budget. During the government's two fiscal years, the police and prosecution budget increased by about 1.56 billion. kr, corrected for price and salary growth and included VAT, inter alia. to the following: 700 new police posts 100 million. SEK for civil staff from 2014, which contributes to the release of police posts with a full-year effect from 2015 of 140 million. 50 new prosecutors are distributed in the police case about 16 new state attorneys seven case handlers to the higher prosecution authority In addition, allocations have been increased to priority areas such as more returns, security and preparedness, ICT and the launch and implementation of the close police reform. For the 2015 budget, the government has introduced a streamlining reform on all public enterprises, including the Police and Leniency Administration. This increase, as mentioned above, has also given Oslo police districts more resources, so that the district can carry out its tasks both in Oslo Central Station and elsewhere in the capital in a good way. Oslo Central Station and its surrounding areas are a priority area for the Oslo Police District. In the future, the district will pay further attention to this area, not necessarily in the light of the Evening Post's look-up, but because it is important to ensure that people can travel safely also at the Oslo Central Station for the reasons on which the interpellant was located.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1666	I understand from the Council of State's response that the Police Directorate assesses the situation somewhat differently from what one could get as a representative impression by reading this one. I'm aware, of course, that the press is going after the spectacular, but now the article was based on a longer reporting period than a moment's review, and it was also based on statements from those who have their daily legal business in the centre. The question could then naturally be reported as to whether to keep a separate log — it may be that you are already doing — for this area, so that you can be sure that the evolution of crime is satisfactory, i.e. However, in the case of drugrelated deaths, the number of drugrelated deaths among drug users in the EU has increased, and the number of drugrelated deaths among young people in the EU has increased. I am, of course, enthusiastic about all the strengthening measures to which the Council of State refers and a standard number of two, which has also been essential in the debate. Now, this might start with an establishment saying that you don't recognize yourself, of course, because you haven't been able to give a precise description of reality, but it can also be because you haven't been in the right place. I think it is very important that we have a police officer at eye level and that is of such a nature that one sees what can be unsafe, from the 150 000 who pass over this very dense area, and that other measures can also be assessed, for example. there are some areas that should only be reserved for travellers with a valid ticket, so that the number of square metres to be patrolled can also be reduced. In any case, we should follow developments very closely, and my question had to be – if we now think that this development continues, and that there is something in what the traders and road users experience in a reinforced crime picture – what the Council of State might expect to do in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1679	As I tried to express in my post, there's actually quite a lot going the right way also at the Oslo Central Station, although the kind of events that are referred to in the Evening Post, over time obviously shows that there are still challenges. But I think it's important to realize that in the big picture, there's an incredible amount of good police work done in the Oslo police district, also to secure travelers. For the purpose of demarcating specific areas for specific groups of persons, e.g.: those who have valid tickets, etc., will not be the task of the police. It's Oslo Central Station that has to handle the logistics and the way they want to handle it, and facilitate the conditions for the travellers to be as safe and secure as possible. I feel that the Oslo police district, at least, says that the cooperation is good. The meeting I referred to in my main post was intended as a contribution to improving coordination and working very, very broadly because there are many who are involved in this. But it turns out that there is a steady drop in the number of criminal offences, including very serious criminal offences, among young people in the capital. There should also be positive results for the type of accommodation that Oslo S is – for groups from the city, but also from elsewhere. Then Oslo police district has put emphasis on and will continue to focus on the presence at Oslo Central Station. They will necessarily have to do that when looking at the event reporting that the interpellant has referred to. It is also Oslo Police District that needs to assess which measures are relevant in order to ensure, if necessary, even better Oslo Central Station, and to ensure the necessary contact and follow-up of the Oslo Central Station, the weights – and travellers, not least. I have a certain impression that the police officer in Oslo is taking this very seriously. As I mentioned in my post, there is an on-site police post with 30 policemen patrolling the area, both uniformed and civil. So there's already a pretty big police presence on Oslo S, and if that's what's needed, I'm sure the Oslo Police Master is going to increase that presence, based on the situation picture that possibly evolves.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1690	I think it is positive that the representative Tetzschner has addressed this issue. I even got involved in it when, in December, I had a written question to the Council of State, which I received on 15 December an answer that was quite similar to the answer today, with the same main points. I have to say that after seeing it by self-esteem – partly by self-esteem, then – I agree with Tetzschner that there is something about the situation description we need to look at. I'm quite often, I'd say, in there relatively late at night on weekends, and I've rarely seen visible police there. Now it's possible that there's civil police there, but I've rarely seen any visible police. There used to be a police station inside on the Oslo S itself, not on the sea side. It was probably a couple–three years ago that it was moved outside. Then it was at least more visible that there was police in the vicinity – when there was a marked police post where they went in and out. So there's a different description of reality here that at least we who are concerned about this as a central hub in Oslo for the whole country, will continue to engage us in. The guards – I have visited them and several different groups working in the station area – told them that last year they had 40 injuries to young people who had to be treated on medical care, in connection with fights and attacks, and there were many more cases that were problematic for them. They had expelled 10,500 in the third quarter last year, and what they're saying to me is that it happens quite often that the police are not coming in time when situations arise, or that the phone is not being picked up. I can't do this well, but it's clear that if the young people disappear again after a crash, there will be fewer things – if you don't get a hold of it in time, you get a report that you can get a name for, etc. The police can hold them back, something the weights can't do. There may also be many types of serious incidents involving young people that are collapsing; there may be less violent incidents that are not so serious that there are major criminal cases or serious criminal offences but are problematic in a station environment where people are to experience security. So there's something about the balance of what you describe as episodes, what's serious, and what you have to keep an eye on. I think it's pretty far inside of Rome Property to take this up as strongly public as they do. They want the station to have a positive profile, and I know they've had a hard time talking about the problems or not, because there's no good PR for them and for the operation of the station, which they want to experience as a positive place. I believe that, at least as I have been presented, they have taken many constructive initiatives, for example. through cooperation with the Church's Bymition, which has a location called the Track, which is also mentioned earlier in the debate. They include: persons out to help those with mental health problems who may be in the area. I got an e-mail from the Church's City Mission last year at Christmas time, at the end of December, while I took this up, describing that they had registered 160 young people on the last Friday who were present, that it could be perceived as creating problematic things, and that there were different reasons why they stayed in the station area for longer periods of time at night, as Friday evening in that case. It's about the same description of reality that Rome Property has given in terms of the number, etc. It is clear that the Municipality of Oslo must also contribute. They have had the Department there and will certainly contribute in the future, so I believe that we – as I also hear that the Council of State and the representative Tetzschner say – must continue to take this seriously and not just look at the statistics on the number of reports for serious violence. There's also another type of environment that it's important to prevent, another type of accumulation that can be a haven of crime and other conditions, which we have to be very observant of.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1701	First, I want to thank the interpellant for raising an important issue. Oslo S is an area where very many of Oslo's citizens travel daily. In addition, the station is the first meeting with the capital of the passengers. These two factors make it absolutely necessary to use significant resources for security measures in this area of Oslo. There must be measures to encourage crime to be averted, not just measures to facilitate research. This area in Oslo is largely video-monitored. It gives the police some tools to put the effort in place in a timely and timely manner. In recent years, Oslo police districts have made considerable efforts to reduce the turnover of drugs in the area. We won't go back many years in time until the situation was extremely problematic in the area. The establishment of the police post and the fact that some of the officials had their working day dedicated to fighting crime in the area have been very important. This shows you that you can succeed in targeted work over time. One also has good luck by raising the level of penalties for criminal offences, precisely because of the special nature of this area and other conditions. All credit to Oslo Police District for the work done. There are trends that other types of crime have taken a great deal of hold. Now we see frequent cases of violence and state between youth gangs as well as different forms of profit crime. The owners of the building stock and the watch industry express considerable concern for the area. Media calls for a more visible police station. What you've seen before is that when you put your effort through projects, etc., it gives you quick and good results. But for the results to last over time, resources and long-term priorities are needed. We have to have that in the back of the head. Oslo police districts have many tasks, and a daily struggle for resources. But it should be a political expectation that a set of police will be able to deal with crime at such key points in the capital. It is important for people to feel safe, but also for the sake of public opinion and the trust of the police. A police officer who is present and visible is the key to fighting crime, because the main essence of all police work should be that one should be there before the crime happens — not when he has happened. It is serious when users from the station, adding and others express their anxiety about being in the area. I expect the Council of State to have a continuous dialogue with the Oslo police district to find a way to do a targeted job.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1716	Michael Tetzschner has a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1719	Those minutes will not be used. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the participants for their interest in the topic by joining us. I just want to say that we're going to follow the development of an area that worries us that's from Oslo. It should also worry more than those who live in Oslo, because there are so many people who depend on being able to move safely as an essential component of their overall security experience during a working day. So I'm not going to stay the council more from the good work, but set the line for me with these words.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1726	I want to thank the interpellant also for the last greeting, but some of the most important work of the Council of State is in Stortinget, and therefore I am glad that we have had this round. It is a theme that engages, not only representatives from Oslo, but also far outside Oslo, on which the interpellant was involved, precisely because there are so many who have Oslo Central Station as a daily hub in connection with travel to and from work, for example. But I also want to say that it is a complex issue, and this debate has also shown that. Many actors are involved, and one should take it seriously when the weights report on the extent of violence directed at them. One should take it seriously when one is told that the police are not always there when something happens, and it is important not to exaggerate or exaggerate. I also agree with Lien's starting point that it must be a sort of political expectation that one can deal with the safety of such a traffic hub. It's an expectation that we have not only for the police in Oslo and Oslo Central Station, it's an expectation that we have for the police in general, no matter where in the country it may be. But there's something I want to underline. I came up with some statistics. Very often these perpetrators are under 18 years of age, and in that group, the number of criminal offences decreased by 6.2 pst. This Regulation shall enter into force on the What's perhaps even more important, statistically, is that many of these are to be regarded as repeaters, young recurrent criminals, i.e. people who have four or more relationships behind them. There's also a positive development. Three out of four young people under 18 years of age with criminal offences in 2013 were not registered with criminal offences in 2014, for which the decline from 2013 to 2014 is almost 70 pst. This means that in several areas the police in Oslo succeed with that effort. But that's not the same thing as that it's not still a bit of a way to go. Of course, the police officer in Oslo is also aware of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1737	That is when the debate is on case No. Eight is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1753	The backbone of this debate is a very serious situation. There are a number of people from Norway who have been recruited to travel to countries such as Syria, Somalia, Kenya and Yemen to participate in terrorist acts, participating in terrorist networks. We've seen that the PST has come up with a very serious threat picture about the situation in this country, which they also maintain, and I think many of us remember that sentence: it's more likely that it happens than that there's no terrorist action in Norway in the coming year. I guess that's what they said. My concern is more whether we take it seriously enough, or whether we're starting to become a little bit ‘accustomed’ to that situation. We received at the latest a reminder in the newspaper today that there have been attempts to send people from the IS and from the Al-Nusra front to Norway under the cover of entering as refugees in the refugee quotas. Fortunately, this is revealed, but we don't know if it can be any other, as PST says. We have a situation that doesn't allow us to sleep an hour at all. I think it's made a lot of good framework, a lot of good plans, good guides, there's been good conferences and there's been nice dialogue meetings around the country where it's relevant, in this work. I still think it is important for us to have a discussion here, too, on the Storting, whether we really reach out to them, because it is clear that those who are at these conferences and the dialogue meetings etc. are people who are motivated and who are often in a different sphere than those who are really in danger of recruitment. I'm just concerned with discussing how we can improve the measures, how we can be even more confident that we're going to get well. The first question is what we know about the amount, about the number of people who have been recruited, the number of people who have travelled. The PST has pointed out that there may be 70–80 people on whom they are sure, in the past there was more top of the estimate; now this is probably less of the estimate, but it may be 150, and even more than that. Norway is relatively overrepresented in relation to the population when we compare with countries that are natural to compare with. I have asked myself the question of whether the places we have heard that most have travelled from are smaller places, like Lisleby in Fredrikstad – where it has probably been published that seven have travelled from – one area in Bærum, Levanger etc., while I have thought: How many are there from Oslo and from my areas, from Groruddalen etc.? It's harder to get any answer to that. You can take the easy version and say that then it's surprising few, but I think it's more correct and safer and safer to take the variant that it's more difficult to know in more unwieldy environments, in larger environments and environments where it's more difficult for anyone who's working on this to have a good enough insight, a good enough overview and a good enough knowledge of what's going on. Just to point out some factors: it is difficult to have an overview of those who are staying here illegally. There have probably been up and down different estimates, but there have sometimes been around 15 000, and some have said that there are up to 30 000 who live in Norway illegally, and a large proportion of them in Oslo. It is clear that then there are inconclusive environments – knowing who can be recruited, who can travel, who can go off the farm. It's just to do, mostly, when there are open borders in Europe and not hard to get into Turkey and beyond. Illegal residence is one thing, but then there's an online recruitment, that is, solo terrorism, or those who are radicalized online, which it seems is very difficult to get an overview of and follow up on. We have large groups who are 'dropouts' from high school who can be in danger because they can feel like losers, can feel outcast, can feel that they are not getting any chance, and that can be easier victims of the Ummah of the Prophet and other groups who are actively recruiting people to networks that sympathize with terror. We have also seen in Dagbladet today that there may be some of the refugees and asylum seekers who can hide under that status. I think it's important to think about having more specific responses to the different groups. The police's responsibility is to prevent, stop and investigate criminal acts, and at least when I talk to those who work with this in the police, they underline everything they can't do. It takes a lot of us in society if you're going to do this work in a good way. The police now have radicalisation contacts, which are positively built in seven police districts where it is most topical: there are four at stations in Oslo and one at the central Oslo police district, which also have some resource staff around them. I believe that the work has started usefully. We must remember that the police are also told about those who are not considered dangerous; those who are considered dangerous are the PSTs to follow. It's hard for us here, in the open hall, to ask the question whether PST has enough resources to follow the dangerous in a good way, but it's clear that there's a concern in the community when you don't know who they are, and don't know if they're being followed up. As far as the police's tools are concerned, as they are now, there is the obligation of professional secrecy between the agencies I have received the most concern about. I have previously asked the Minister of Justice about this in a question hour, and I got a positive answer, to look at and develop supervisors. It is possible to interpret the obligation of professional secrecy in a way that can be called ‘offensive’, i.e. to cooperate, to contact people and not to anonymise, which makes it a very difficult collaboration. Even when people who are considered not dangerous come back, e.g. from Syria, and referred to city councillors, to therapy directed by regional centres for traumatic stress, it may be difficult for the police to have the necessary contact and to have adequate follow-up due to the obligation of professional secrecy. So I'm a little excited if the Council of State has continued to work on and think about it. It is also an important problem that this issue of storage time for IP addresses is still there, i.e. in relation to the decision of several years ago in the Stortinge on the Data Storage Directive, which for various reasons has not come forward. But there was no one in that debate in Stortinget who thought that the storage time should be as short as three weeks as it is now. There is a question of whether you can do something about it without addressing the whole issue of the Data Storage Directive, because I think there will be a broad consensus on that – when you hear how the police describe the problems around, among other things. to prevent terrorist networks when you have such short storage times, in relation to the work of online solo-terrorism, etc. I also want to mention two more things. One is that the PST does not have its own people in the Oslo police district. In the other police districts, they are directly represented, while in Oslo they have their national unit, and they cooperate well with the police. But it's a question of whether they would get even closer cooperation if they were also present at the police district and wall-in-wall with those who are working on this, and had the daily contact. I would encourage the Council of State to take a closer look at that. The same applies to a question I have raised earlier, about the legal frameworks for discussion of concerns, both for those under 18 years of age who are actually involved in things other than anxiety talks – which have become more recent – and also legal issues in view of them over 18 years of age. I'm aware that it should be based on volunteering, but sometimes you're in borderland. So over to what we civil should do, which I also have to come back to more in the debate: it's essential that we create a good integration and include everyone. To succeed in this, we also need to take the debate much more actively, we who are in civil society and live and live in these areas where it is most topical – in relation to those who do not want integration, that is, those who are agitating against integration, who say that you live in the unbelief societies, who want sharialovers in Norway, who agitate that women do not look at men, not participate in society, wear lucky garments, etc. We need to take the discussions on – and how – we can isolate those who have the kind of opinions that can delineate themselves from terror, but who still get almost the same social view as those in the Ummah of the Prophet, which then goes a step further. So the debate on those environments -- how to visit them, participate in it, as much as possible by us -- I would like to go on with it also beyond the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1785	Let me first thank the interpellant Bohemian for addressing a problem that I know he has a genuine commitment to. He has brought this up with me as the Council of State also several times earlier. I think we agree that this is an important topic, in which we are positive and constructive across all political parties – across positions and opposition – in order to find the most possible solutions to the challenges we face. I think it's very good. I will first answer what is the main question of the interpellation, how I assess the status of the work on the action plan and the need to make improvements and take new action in the future – and then come back to some of the other issues at the end. As you know, the government presented its action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism nearly a year ago – June 10 is the one-year anniversary. The starting point was the government’s desire to strengthen prevention, i.e. capture persons in the risk zone as early as possible and meet them with effective measures. This is an action plan which is very concrete and has quite clear responsibilities between the different departments. In addition to the Prime Minister's office, a total of nine departments are involved in this work. Status is that we have had status updates for work several times throughout the year that has almost passed. These are status updates coordinated by the Ministry of Justice and Defence, based on input from the departments responsible for the various actions. There will be a new such status update on the one birthday, June 10. It's also being published on the government's website for this work, radicalization. There is also a latest status update, where all measures have been reviewed. This will then be updated on 10 June. In general, I believe that the status – with the 30 measures – is quite good. Unfortunately, some measures have taken a little longer to bring into force than originally planned, but most of them are well on track, and some have already been implemented. I would like to highlight, among other things: Action 6, on the National Guide to Prevent Radicalisation and Violent Extremism, launched on 17 April this year. The target group is primarily people who, through their work and work in the first line, come into contact with vulnerable individuals. The supervisor provides, inter alia: advice on how to proceed when you are concerned about whether a person is being radicalised, about conversational methodology and about different cooperation models at local level. It deals with the relationship to professional secrecy – as the representative of Bohemia addressed both in his interpellation, in his statement here, and as he has also mentioned earlier – where one goes through part of the legislation, but also refers to the relevant legislation, to show what kind of room of action is actually there. So far we have received very positive feedback from the users of the guide. But also here, it's important that we manage to distribute this guide properly, so that those who need it also use it. We can be good at making guides and good tools, but these are of little value if they're not actually used. It is a responsibility that we all have to that extent, but especially we, of course. The representative of Bohemia also asks how I assess the need to make improvements and to put in place new measures in the future. One particular point in this action plan is that we have deliberately made it dynamic, that it is necessary to adjust and improve existing measures from time to time – that this should be a living document more than a static document. Therefore, we are also open to abandon existing measures if they do not have the effect one would like and there will be a need to introduce new measures. Some of the new measures that will come — which will then complement the 30 existing ones — are among others. that we will publish two new research projects, respectively on the prevention of hateful opinions and hate crime on the Internet and on developments and prevention strategies related to right-wing extremism and conspiracy theories. These are two themes on which we lack up-to-date knowledge. I'm glad we can start these projects, as part of closing these identified knowledge gaps. The Norwegian action plan has, as I said, been very well received, both nationally and internationally. Former US Minister of Justice was very enthusiastic and took the English version with him to the United States. But we have also received some feedback from, among others. KS and some rapporteurs, who have indicated that they would like to follow up on specific projects, but that there have been few funds available. Local prevention is very important for implementing part of these local interventions. Therefore, the Government has proposed the introduction of a grant scheme of 10 million in the revised national budget for 2015. kr for such projects – which I heard earlier today that agreement had been reached between the government parties and the cooperation parties. The local appliance has very good experience working on these issues. Here it's also important and right to look very across. These means – as we have then proposed – should go to specific projects in the field of prevention or combating radicalisation and violent extremism. The projects receiving grants shall be evaluated. Experience can thus be shared and benefit other municipalities. We know that the role of civil society and youth in prevention is very important. That is why we have also proposed to grant 7.5 million. kr to a grant scheme under the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, where municipalities can apply for financial support for local prevention, in cooperation with voluntary actors. The action plan is, as I mentioned, dynamic. We need to adapt existing measures and develop new ones, in line with developments in the field and changes in the threat picture. No one will be able to claim that we have now found all the solutions to this problem complex, but we are working systematically and strategically to identify the good measures and instruments. In this picture, there is also an important area for debate – to which the interpellant has now taken the initiative – in order for the Stortinget to also be able to get on the road and make representations for actions that one considers should be considered as part of the follow-up to the plan, so that one can take those input into the further development of the action plan. Good knowledge and correct information are prerequisites for the development of targeted efforts and effective preventive measures. Knowledge and competence are therefore one of the five main categories of the action plan. Under Action 1, the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion is responsible for coordinating the development of research strategies in the field. As part of this work, in April, the BLD was given a knowledge summary by the Consortium on Terrorism and International Crime at the Oslo Police College. The knowledge summary systematises and analyses documentation and research in the field and in different areas, themes and issues. Furthermore, the status of knowledge against what it can should and will be necessary to know more about, in order to design effective measures and prevent recruitment to extremist groups. This will be an important document in developing our future national research strategy. I would also like to mention research on local prevention, which is Action 2 in the plan. In cooperation with the KS, the Ministry of Justice and Defence has launched a survey to investigate the prevention of radicalisation and violent extremism in selected municipalities. Five municipalities have been selected: Fredrikstad, Larvik, Kristiansand, Oslo and Sarpsborg. In addition, a further 25 municipalities have been integrated into the project through participation in workshops during the period. The aim is to disseminate knowledge among municipalities, so that they can already benefit from the experience of some of these municipalities in their work in this area. This project helps 30 Norwegian municipalities share important experiences in this area and strengthen their work in this field. A central part of the follow-up work will also be to follow developments internationally and not least to participate in exchange of experience with other countries. I myself have participated in such an initiative at Nordic level, where the Nordic Ministers have agreed on a declaration of cooperation, which is important to help each other in the prevention work that we are working together on in the Nordic region. The Norwegian prevention model is designed in such a way that it is recognised internationally. I think I should mention that on 4 and 5 June this year we are organising a conference, following up on President Obama's summit on the prevention of violent extremism in Washington in February this year. So this is going to happen on the 4th and 5th of June. So I think we're going to recognize that there are no quick fix solutions in the work against radicalization and violent extremism. But we know – as the interpellant also refers to – that work, among other things. must be based on what works in local and concrete efforts. We work strategically to acquire up-to-date knowledge – through both ongoing and future research projects. On this basis, we will also gain — national and international — experience, which will help us to develop better and better measures in the important efforts to prevent radicalisation and violent extremism.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1827	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good and informative article. As I said, when we try to work with the tools we have in the neighbourhood, we also experience some challenges, if we take the action plan as a starting point. I've seen that in recent years in the Grorud Valley, in the mosque environments there, etc., there are a lot more people who actively want to work towards radicalisation, and who want to protest, and it's much easier to talk about it directly in the mosque environments, etc. than in the past. They also initiate measures. For example, the Muslim Center Furuset has collected money, started its own youth group and engaged a person who pursues outreach activities against those who may be at risk. There we have probably some of those who are closest to knowing who we should talk to and who are actively working to prevent recruitment, because they really understand how important this is, and how fateful it can be for society, for those people who are exposed to it, and for those families. There are also families who have experienced deep sorrow in connection with recruitment and that people have traveled and been killed in Syria, etc. This is what these environments know, so they engage strongly. I would refer to point 14 of the Action Plan, which says that it will support ‘voluntary actors working to prevent radicalisation and violent extremism’. It is important to think widely and to try to involve the most relevant volunteers who can carry out the kind of actions for which money has been collected. I would also like to say that point 19 of the action plan, on guidance for parents and supervisors, is a very good measure. It's just a matter of trying it out, so that it can apply to these families I'm talking about, and as we know, that need a kind of guidance that's slightly different from educational tools in Norwegian society, and that we at least need to get out in a different way than that they're just sent out to public bodies, etc. If I were to propose three more measures that I encourage the Council of State to think about including in the action plan, it is how we can get the imams and also the board members, the boards of mosques, to learn Norwegian well, so that they can participate in the Norwegian social debate, be role models, learn more about what is going on to prevent radicalisation and make a more active effort. The second thing I want to say is that we need more action to find out more about how to prevent hate preachers from coming to Norway, attending events and bringing out a message about sharialover, etc., which is completely borderline. They don't encourage terror, but they're on the verge of what kind of society they want. I also believe that the reporting obligation, the abolition obligation, applies in this area, and should be made better known.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1844	The last proposed measure by representative Bohemia was also mentioned in the guide I mentioned in my main post, where the obligation to notify is actually clarified in order to make this even more accessible to those working in the first line, and I also agree to the extent that the other proposals for new actions are good to bring forward in the process in which we are. In the case of Action 19, jobs – right now, I would say – the BLD with the preparation of this information and the guidance. This work is well under way, but it is important that it is also disseminated. I think we have to, as engaged citizens on this issue, contribute to the dissemination of the type of information that lies and that will lie, easily accessible online by electronic means. One has to do it to disseminate the information and disseminate information about where to get more information about it. There is also a good contribution to the government's website. There were a few things that the interpellant was about in the first post, which I was not able to comment on in my main post. I just thought I'd mention it. The follow-up to the fall of the Data Storage Directive in the EU is in the Ministry of Transport, and it is those who have the responsibility to follow-up on what may come as a consequence of it. With regard to the organisation of the PST and the local units, it's true, as the representative of Bohemia says, that in Oslo you have the central unit. You don't have a local PST link as well. It's a little related to the fact that the organisation of the local PSTs is supposed to be part of a local structure, which knows the community more about the pulse, because the central unit is not there. While in the capital and Oslo police districts, the central unit is present and can use the tools used by the local PST units. That's probably why it's supposed to be like this. Now, following the implementation of the police reform, we will also have experience of the functioning of the local PST units. Perhaps it will also contribute to some more experiences that we can bring with us into the important work to be done. I think that many police districts will envy Oslo for the force that PST actually has in Oslo, but at the same time it is vital for this to work, that the dialogue between the police and the police security service is at least as good as it is in the police districts. I also think the representative is interested in something very important when he talks about the importance of the Mosque environment taking responsibility. It's a trend we're now seeing coming. I hope it gets reinforced, because it's absolutely crucial, and they play an important role.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1857	The fact that individuals and groupings are given the right and closest duty to use violence, blatant violence that reaches heights that humanity may not have seen before, in order to achieve its political objectives, is totally unacceptable. The fight against extremism is the fight to protect the open, free democratic society. The fight must be conducted along two lines: the criminal trail and the prevention trail. This is not a job just for the PST alone. When people appear on PST's radar, it's often too late. The Government’s action plan was well received. 30 concrete actions with a unique location, defined responsibilities for different departments have proved to be effective. It has been followed up with supervisors, it has been followed up with courses, and it has been followed up with the most important thing – it has come into contact with youth environments located in the periphery, which you want to hang in, so that they do not recruit for this type of activity. The revised national budget also contains concrete appropriations for this work – 10 million. for prevention work in municipalities, for which they can apply for specific projects, and for money devoted to research into extremism, both right-wing extremism and left-wing extremism. IS shows an enormous professionalism in both its media work, its training, its conduct of military operations and not least its recruitment. As the representative of Bohemia was involved, in relation to the population and to the Muslim proportion of the Norwegian population, many are recruited as foreign warriors to Syria. When young people change their way of being, change their way of speaking, start foreshadowing totalitarian ideas, change their way of dress, change their way of speaking and isolate themselves, there is reason to be on guard. This is not a type of prevention and detection activity that can only be carried out by the public. The community must be on guard — child protection, school, non-governmental organisations and mosques, as mentioned here. In the past, this has been an Oslo phenomenon, or a phenomenon in the central eastern region. It's not anymore. Last summer we got the news of a family father who had taken his family from Senja and traveled to Syria and joined him as a foreign warrior. This battle must be conducted along several axes we shall win. We can't afford to lose, and we can't afford to lose more young people who are being led into this terrible road.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1872	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for raising an important issue. The topic is more topical than ever, and there is a problem we need to have continued political pressure and attention against. The problem of reaching the goal can be many, but we have to evaluate what works best, and do no more of the things that give little effect. A good plan and action plan are needed, but the solution is not alone. Resources are also required, and a targeted job is required over time to close a resource. In fact, one has to have two thoughts in your head at the same time – to avert the acute cases, but also for things that work over time. That's a pretty straightforward picture we're witnessing. Norwegian citizens well to leave the country to participate in criminal offences abroad. This also happens in other countries, so it's important that we learn from it. It is not just Oslo or other big cities that have people travelling to participate in this type of action. This means that efforts cannot be concentrated, but must apply throughout the country. Whoever is in the risk group is not always as easy to uncover. Changes in behavior and way of thinking take place quickly. Everyone who works with children and young people has a responsibility to be a caregiver. It is necessary that those who discover changes in the behaviour of individuals who may have been radicalised report and know where to report them. As politicians, we have to make sure that we create a society where everyone feels that they belong, a society where nobody feels like they're on the sideline, and we have to ensure a good integration of people who come to the country. In other words, there are many areas where action needs to be inserted. Early efforts to prevent people from travelling to participate in this type of action are a commitment. Good information flows between actors will then be needed to capture the risk group. Municipalities, police, health care and volunteering then have key functions. Good counsellors have been developed and must be made known to relevant groups. They're detailed and easy to understand, and it's positive. What to do when you're concerned about, how to talk, and what are the relevant actions, is a topic of discovery. Finally, I would like to point out the importance of the power of the example. The fact that people who have shared such actions are being investigated and, if appropriate, convicted, could have a preventative effect. Norwegian society shall not accept participation in such actions. We must not forget that there is also a need for financial resources to do a good job. Then we must not forget the annual budgetary procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1891	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important and difficult matter. It's about a lot of things, but one of the most important things we need as a starting point is to include as much as possible – preferably everyone – in the community and the community, so that everyone feels that they're part of a "we" and that the division between them and us is not increasing. This does not just apply to people with a different religion than the one that the Stortinget has just decided that we should still have as leader in this country, or people who originate in Norway for generations. I have to remind you that the great terrorist attack in Norway was carried out by one who was Norwegian, but as foreshadowed radical values that go all the way across those on which we want to build society: democracy, equality and the recognition of different people, and that they can live together. The action plans presented have been shown, and there is a lot that is good in them. I would like to support those who have now said that there are many people here who need to take responsibility and follow this up, and I am very pleased that the Council of State also points out that many guides, action plans etc. can be created here, but it does not help much if they are not put into service and not followed up. That's why I'm going to spend the most of my time talking about exit work, because I think it's a very important part of this. This work has been carried out in Norway with very good results. There have been different types of criminal environments, and there are certainly differences between the extreme political and religious environments and the criminal environments, but some mechanisms are probably quite the same – especially the fact that it's very difficult to get involved once you've been messed up in it. There are probably a lot of people who want out, but don't dare. Then it is very important that we help young people who are in danger of being radicalised – whether criminal, religious or political environments that drive them into this – and then we have to take care of the skills we build and which we have built up. And one of the problems is that there's been a build-up of expertise environments on this, you run a project, you're over the project period, and then the competence environment breaks down. This must now be avoided by working with both prevention strategies and exit strategies. It's going to be a permanent task in the foreseeable future in the municipalities and in different sectors of society. For this reason, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice specifically whether he agrees with this consideration, and that, therefore, funding on projects for sustainable financial instruments must be shifted away from that, so that we build up and maintain the competences we build on this kind of thing – and especially on the exit work. Many of these projects now live slightly from hand to mouth, because they have to apply for money. Maybe there'll be money, maybe there won't be money, and then a lot of good skills can be lost. So these are not ad hoc solutions that we can build up and build down. I am very pleased with what the Council of State is now saying that you should also put money into research into this. Some of the criticisms about the exit work in the past have been that the follow-up research that was to be included was too bad, and that it sort of runs into the sand when the projects are closed down. There is no reason for it to do so, for these will be arrangements that – as I said – need to be built up in the foreseeable future. What has been said about recruiting people who have had their shoes on – or who have what is called ‘street cred’ – in these programs is important. Finally, there are also some women who are recruited into these extreme environments, but also by those who travel, and I think there might be a need for special measures for them to break out, because I think they are exposed to even stronger mechanisms.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1908	I just want to express briefly a support for many good posts here, where they have said that it has to be worked in several tracks, along several axes. Money is mentioned, but it is not just money here, because we have good monitoring in the municipalities today – they are closely following our young people today. This can be done here by defining the candidates concerned. They're either looking for a reversion, they're looking for an identity, they can have ideological motives, or there's just someone who's going down there with an adventurous spirit. This enables the apparatus that the Municipality of Norway has today to follow. So what you might really want to strengthen is a raising of awareness about the relationships and the signs you can look for, to discover those that go into these groupings. That was my brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1915	Thank you very much again. I would like to thank you for many good contributions, which show that there is a broad consensus on the Storting on the effort to combat the recruitment of terrorist networks. The Harek Rivers made a good contribution, where he got serious about this. I think we need to stress that we also have a new type of terror with low-skell attack – at street level with knives and simple weapons – where the purpose is different from that of previous acts of terror, and where it is primarily about spreading a violent fear, fear and creating division. It is clear that one of the answers was what Karin Andersen had in mind, that we must also stand together with the vast majority of moderate Muslims – ordinary Muslims – who are against this. At the same time, it is important that we do not just leave the debate to the courageous Muslims who stand up and take the public debate and who are subjected to quite great burdens. We have to take it all the rest of us in Norwegian society as well. It is important not to give up. The Oslo police district tells us that 90 pst. of the persons with whom they work, do not end up in such networks. So they prevent and manage to achieve results for very many. I know even of examples locally that people who have been photographed with machine guns etc. and got on the web with it, later came into other thoughts and other ways. We have to be aware that it is possible to get there. It's important not to give up people, even though they seem to have gone very far in that direction. There are two points I just want to take a little bit more of what the Council of State was about – that is, the PST representation in different police districts. It is in other districts where the PST is represented that it is not the persons to accompany any dangerous person sitting in the chamber. Close contact, dialogue and cooperation and exchange of information are provided by those persons. That's the kind of person I think it could be important to think about having also inside the house in Oslo police district. The resources that follow the individuals are another question – we have them in Oslo. It's true, as the Council of State says, that we're in a good situation where we have PST in terms of having resources at our disposal in the operational field. But now I am thinking about the daily contact in the district. I'm glad that the Council of State and I, I think, have the same intention in terms of professional secrecy. I've read what's in the National Guide, and what's in the Solto Guide in Oslo. I think if the Council of State were to work on this locally and had read these references on how to stick to the rules like that, and then you have to look up to find an exception -- it's not that much -- I think you have to go through this one more time to make it clear. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1930	It has to be another time, because now speaking time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1934	There is one advantage for the supervisors to whom the representative Bohemia referred, and that is that they are also available in electronic form. You can just click, and you get to the different parts that you're looking for. So that's a point. However, it is also important that we continue to work to clarify and clarify the borders and insofar as the confidentiality and alerting frameworks are concerned. Everyone who's been up here, I think I've said this is complicated, and it underlines how complicated this actually is. I want to say that there are also some positive things. When the government launched this action plan a year ago, PST characterised it as a quantum leap for the prevention of radicalisation and violent extremism. These are good characteristics, and I think that when you look at the follow-up of this, we are at least well on track. But we have counterpowers out there. The ISIS propaganda machinery has been mentioned by several people here. It is an enormous effort by the IS to glorify this kind of radicalisation and the travel activity that unfortunately many are being lured into. And that makes it all the more complicated when we know that there are many different reasons why you're being radicalized, or that you're going to Syria as a foreign warrior. It can be ideology – it is those who are ideologically convinced that this is right. It could be those who have been outside, who suddenly find a moustache, a relative. There may be criminals traveling to commit crime. This makes this image very complicated. The representative of Vestby considered the importance of having an overview of what to look for in order to assess who are at risk. There is a list in the back of the action plan that shows some of the radicalisation signs you should be aware of when you are in the first line. Then we should not forget – it was Elves who were involved – that this is about two things. It's about prevention, but it's also about criminal prosecution. It is also important to use the criminal trail when it is based on it and it is seen that it actually has consequences when crossing these borders. The representative was Andersen, among others. that there are many different ways of prevention. She particularly commented on the exit programs. It is always a challenge with projects that they often have a limited duration. The aim of the projects is to find out what works best – what are the best projects. And then it's the ones that kind of need to be normalized and live on. But it's an input that's important to bring with it, because it's important not to lose the competence that's gained in many of these very good and important projects that are being carried out locally. I am very pleased with the commitment this debate shows. I'm very pleased with the broad political consensus it's about what's the challenge, that there's no one running and thinking there's any quick-fix, and that the Storting is united to solve this big challenge in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1949	So the debate is on case No. Nine over. Today's map has been processed, and there is a call for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1957	Then we are ready to vote on the matter no. 1 to 4 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e1981	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Abid Q. Raja, on behalf of the Left and the Green Group in the European Parliament 2, from Bård Vegar Solhjell on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 2 is replaced by the following: Option B [[(bokmal and new Norwegian):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e2044	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Left and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 4 is deleted;
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e2081	The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e2084	That also applies to SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e2089	Then the Socialist Left Party has also announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e2109	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e2126	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mr Lundtägen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:30 [[judgment of the Court of Justice]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e2174	In line with previous practice, name-prop will now be votered.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e2213	The vote on the motion for a resolution will be taken at the next voting time. 1 to 4 completed. The President is asking for peace in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e2402	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e2411	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. There is no voting theme in cases No. 7-9.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-01.ana.ud779e2529	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
