tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsibility statement belongs to Mus MP Burcu Çelik (the first non-responsive) who wants to speak about rights violations in prisons. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0002par0009	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I give my regards to the people who are watching us at the beginning of their screens, our presidents, our fellow lawmakers, elected mayors, and all political prisoners. We've had numerous conversations about the infractions of prisons, and we've had several conversations here to improve the violations of prisons, but not once, not once, not once, especially from the ruling party, I think, has not yet come to offer any work, any solutions in this direction, and I don't think it will come after that. Dear friends, the heavy violations of the 15th of July continued to increase systematically after July 15th, and today the prisons are not habitable, I'm afraid. Sadly, in our country, which began to run with the Turkish Cypriots after July 15th, the first area to find the reflection of this State of Emergency was the prisons. We know that, along with the first ordinance, there are many violations that have been committed, as well as that of the prisoners, to their lawyers, to their families, to their rights, from the naked search to the rights of health, as well as to the ban of certain televisions from the introduction of books to the prisons. We know from the letters we received, for example, from the applications we received. In addition, there are countless examples, countless cases that we have witnessed from our prison visits. I'm not making any party distinctions here, and I'm afraid we've received one-on-one visits by all party groups, but we're really curious to see if this Parliament has a reflex, a solution for healing. In addition, dear friends, Parliament has the Prison Subcommittee, which continues to work within the Human Rights Commission and Human Rights Commission under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. These commissions are really what they do, what they do, what they act on, what principles they have, and once you really have to explain it to the public from here. Imagine, 13 members of Parliament today are prisoners, and even though we have applied to the Human Rights Commission countless times, although our MPs, especially at the point of visiting all the chosen prisoners, have not yet been returned to our positive or negative side, to our party, until now. For once in respect of respectability, you have to make a decision to make it into history once in a while. If you're under pressure, even if you've lost your neutrality and independence, it's the first thing you have to do if it's up to us to share it with the public. Otherwise, today, we expect you to respond to us in writing as to why these visits are not being made, dear friends. Besides, we have a Prison Subcommittee. We're doing some of the visits we need to make at this Prison Subcommittee, but we haven't visited many prisons where we've had a lot of complaints, which we really need to go to. During our visits, we reported all violations -- with our eyes -- we actually reported them, we presented them to the public, we presented them to the Human Rights Commission, we submitted them to Parliament. Well, the mission of these commissions is just to determine whether or not it is necessary to find a solution for improvement, but first I would like to present it to our fellow commissioners and to the attention of Parliament, dear friends. I would especially like to share with you this letter that I received during this period of severe infractions in prisons. This letter from my constituency, Mush Prison, has been written in a very clear case of heavy battery and torture against women prisoners, and if we still can't find a way to improve the violations of prisons for all prisoners, especially women, young people, children, and if we still can't give them a reflex, there's no other explanation, dear friends. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0003par0018	Thank you, Mr. Steel. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Artvin MP Uğur Bayraktutan who wants to talk about Artvin's problems. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0004par0023	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, very dear MPs, I salute your grand delegation. At the beginning of my words, I salute my citizens in the village of Aksu, Aksu district of Sakarya Tarak Aksu, and the village of Hajiyakup Pashas from the Parliament of Mustafa Kemal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, valued deputies; look, last year in 2016, in Artvin, 19 September, the biggest problem of Arthur was Cerattepe; we had Cerattepe, Parliament, Turkey, but unfortunately, sometimes the deaf don't hear this -- there was a Cerattepe hearing. The day before the trial, the governorship of Artvin forbade all acts concerning Artvin, my dear friends. Right now, there's no demonstrations in Artvin, no demonstrations, no press releases, no notices, no banners, no press releases, they've created a completely non-actual situation. But why did they forbid it? I want to share it. My dear friends, Artvin, are the most peaceful province in Turkey, according to TİK data. According to the 2015 TÜİK data, there is no province in Turkey that is more peaceful than Artvin. The prisons in Artvin have been closed. We had a prison in Joseph, and it was shut down because there was no one there, and it was shut down in Debanka. One of the cities where crime is at least a crime is not committed, Artvinli, but an actual situation is being created, no meetings or demonstrations in Artvin. Why? I'll tell you why, my dear friends: a businessman is sacrificing a city in connection with the mining initiative at Artvin Cerattepe. Do you know who is actually the governor in Artvin? Who's the governor at Artvin? Mehmet Genghis. Mehmet Genghis Artvin is governor of the city, my dear friends. He's setting bans on the mining initiative he's going to take out. The governor has no will. They send a paper to the governor, one month apart he forbids meetings and demonstration walks in Artvin. Why? Because he's trying to stop it from happening if there's any inflict about the mine they're trying to dig up in Cerattepe, if there's a public demonstration, Mr. Governor. I'm calling from here to the governor, Artvin is not your father's farm. Artvin is the city of the republic, a city of people who respect the law, a city without any problems, where people live as brothers. Why are you having a curfew in this town, Governor? Isn't it my right as a county MP to ask that? I want this wrong decision returned as soon as possible. Look, the propaganda period for the Constitutional studies will begin, and we won't be able to make a press statement in Artvin. What kind of a freak is that, my dear friends? That's why I'm trying to hope that the governor will undo this wrong decision, my dear friends. There's something else in Artvin. Look, you put aside Ibrahim Kaboglu, an important constitutional lawyer of the province of Artvin, for saying no in this Constitutional vote because my dear friends voted no. I salute Ibrahim Kaboglu of Parliament. But in the same debtka, he shares in the social media about the campaign, a subsidiary of the debtka, Ertugrul Example, and I call his name from here. Mr. Kaymakamam, I say: Change your last name, which is for example. If you have any political concerns, if you want to fight about it, get out of that car, get out of the public car, let's take a measure of one size, let's see if we can get a size of the Collar of Debt, my dear friends. (CHP cheers) So these mistakes need to be corrected. Look, there's a CED report on 22 hectares, about the 22 hectares that are being mined in Cerattepe. Now we say that without any regulation regarding CED, without a revision plan, the company is trying to create an actual situation related to the mining in Cerattepe, about 240 hectares. We know who this company is, and we know the owner's interest in the public, my dear friends. But know this, no matter what the circumstances, and I speak to the governor here, and to the political will that instructs him: the Artvins will not let you mine that mine at Cerattepe, no matter what the cost. Look, you should know that. And don't think that in these extraordinary circumstances, the silence of Artvinli is not a symbol of a surrender, because he accepts it, and we say that clearly, it's the calm before the storm. So when we say no, we also say no to Cerattepe, my dear friends. (Applause) In my previous speech, I said, "Our country is a hill, but Artvin's decision is no." In my speech to Parliament after April 16th, I hope to speak from this bench, my dear friends. I'd like to share something else: Look, there is a meeting today in Artvin Arhavi, about the tea, about organic fertilizer. My dear friends, the Director General of the Department of Agriculture, the Minister of Agriculture, the Honorable Governor, are calling everyone, Artvin has no MP. Am I the MP of Armenia, my dear friends, and have I come from another country? (HPP) Artvin's tea problem is being discussed and they treat us like plagues. There's something more interesting there. They've set a limit on organic agriculture, there's organic agriculture on our side from Sunday, and I'm not saying it's okay, but the tea maker is already bleeding with a loss of production, so what's the point of going from Sunday to Rize? Shouldn't we ask, my dear friends? Where is the principle of equality in this Constitution, my dear friends, we want to tell you about it. On this occasion, I call upon you once again, that as long as it is Ceratepe, the people of Artvin will stand with dignity and uprightness. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The people of Artvin will be broken if it comes to it, but they will never bow. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0005par0041	The Black Sea is with you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0006par0042	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Tripoli MP Salih Cora, who wanted to mark the 99th anniversary of the February 24 of Tripoli's deliverance from enemy occupation. Here you go, Mr. Cora.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0007par0048	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-the-top promise in honor of the 99th year of the liberation of our beloved MPs from the enemy's occupation. I hereby salute you precious members of our Veteran Assembly and our nation and citizens who are watching over us on television. History has made it clear that because of the geopolitical and geostrategic position of our Tripoli, each period is an important city. Long before the year 2000, Tripoli has established great civilizations that have been home to many civilizations and will mark the ages in his heart. The city of Tripoli, which was conquered by the conqueror, by the birth of the Law, and by the prince of Yavuz (Javuz), was also, unfortunately, subject to many attacks and occupations as a result of this priceless price. During the years of World War I, the Ottoman army fought against seven heifers on four continents, while Tripoli suffered the invasion of the Russian army on 18 April 1916. With the occupation, the peace of the settled people was broken, the order was broken. Those who lived in Tripoli and were unable to fight at that time had to emigrate from the land they belonged to rather than be captured in the attempt to invade. For nearly two years, Muslim Turks, who were forced to emigrate from their homes to their ancestors, struggled with hunger, poverty, and epidemics. Congressmans, it's a difficult situation to describe as an emigrant. For centuries, they have been separated from their land and from their warm homes; babies and children who have been ill and cannot be helped; elders who have fallen on bare roads; women who left their wives on the front and took care of their wives. Praise be to God that our ancestors, who had their honor, their dignity, their flag, their authority, and their faith and determination, were victorious, and eventually returned to Tripoli again on February 24, 1918, so that we would not seek a home in their mother's arms. Dear lawmakers, the people of this geography have paid heavy prices, seen many betrayals, but never surrendered to captivity. About 350,000 Tripolins did not return from the land they migrated to during the years of their exile. But when they returned, they found a city that had been destroyed. Their dates were burned, their memories lost, their memories destroyed. In all times of our history, the people of Tripoli, famed for their patriotism, were actually involved in the struggle of sovereignty on every side of the land, even under these difficult conditions. In World War I, Yemen, Channel, Hejaz, Çanakkale, and Caucasus gave blood, died, but never gave the enemy space. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to take this opportunity to share with you a sentiment for this meaningful day. It is not our intention every year to remember and remind us of the days of deliverance from these occupations that we are meant to be hostile to other nations, to breed new enmity, to hold grudges against other nations, to prevent mistakes from repeating the events of history, and of course many of them are remembering the glorious memory of our eternal sacrifice. On this occasion, we are grateful and grateful to the many anonymous heroes who have sacrificed their lives for this cause, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his comrades, who have made this beautiful land our eternal home, acting with unprecedented determination, faith, and determination in the struggle for our nation's national liberation. Once again, I congratulate you all on the 99th anniversary of the liberation of Tripoli from the occupation.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0008par0055	Thank you, Mr Cora. I too celebrate the 99th anniversary of my hometown's deliverance from the enemy's occupation. I salute the citizens of Tripoli here with love and respect.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0009par0059	May there be a glorious ceremony on the 100th anniversary, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0008par0060	Let's have a glorious ceremony in the 100th year as the Tripolians.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0009par0061	Let's have a glorious ceremony on the 100th anniversary and invite us.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0008par0062	Okay, fine. Now, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to the lawmakers who have entered the system and have requested a word. I'm reading the names of the lawmakers who have requested a word. There's been a huge change, Mr. Dalklıç is ranked 1st today. Mr. Engin, Mr. Aydemir, Mr. Özdish, Mr. Tüssek, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Kayışoğlu, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Güyük, Mr. Kılıç, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Aras and Mr. Bektaşoglu are the other members of the parliament that I promise. Mr. Dalkülic, here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0010par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. They banned Muhammad, who was persecuted on the basis of noise pollution at the Masjidi Aksa, the first qiblah of Muslims.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0011par0070	Thank God you said something about that.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0010par0071	I condemn the mindset that prohibits Muhammad the oppressed, I seriously criticize the Israeli cabinet's decision on this issue, and I share it with the public here that they need to review it. We feel that freedom and respect for faith should be based on all geography and in all countries. Again, I condemn the pressures and pressures of faith and freedom on this matter. I would like to immediately lift this meaningless ban and pay tribute to Muhammad, his oppressor at the Masjidi Aksa, the first qiblah of Muslims, and that the meetings can be held freely.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0012par0073	Thank you. Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0013par0076	The number of tourists who came to Istanbul dropped 26 per cent in 2016 and 19% in January 2017. Istanbul, the most beautiful city in the world, has a unique potential for tourism, both with its historical identity and its natural beauty, but unfortunately, the AKP government has faced a tourism crisis today that it does not deserve as a result of its ill-advised policies. Stores close in close-up, Sultanahmet, the Istillal Street shop searching for its old living days. The research motion I submitted to Parliament last year was still unresolved so that 2017 and 2018 tourism would not be lost. In response to my written request for questions regarding the problems of our closed tradesman, the word "closed" does not mention a single word. I address our tourist tradesman all over Turkey, whose demands have been rejected so far: Now, on April 16th, at the referendum, it's your turn to say no.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0012par0078	Mr. Aydemir...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0014par0080	Mr. President, Erzurum, a brilliant mind man who spoke of his own soul, heart, and conscience, led our Master Jonah Kaya to the stable two years ago. Erol Güngör Hodja, for a contractor, we would have seen the care and precision of a scholar, the grace of an artist, and the suffering of a parent. We would have surrendered to his description. These lines are the last of His Majesty of Alvar, as if they were meant for the late Jonah Rock. It was the last expression of a friend's speech that identified him as a man of faith and truth. Akif says: Who was on the stand? What I don't know is that it's not big, it's attractive to the heart. It's just like that. He was a father-in-law, a father-in-law, a father-in-law, and a brother-in-law. The sides bear witness, the minbers lived by evidence, by hand, and said good-bye to us. I send thousands of conquerors to the saint's soul and salute you with my condolences.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0012par0082	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Özdish.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0015par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Minister of Justice: Mr. Ayşe Sarısu Pehlivan, Secretary General of the Justices' Union and Corresponsible Judge, has been launched by HSYK for making a statement to an opposing newspaper concerning the independence of the judiciary and the order of the state. As we look at Mr. Pehlivan's statement, we see words spoken in the union, explained thoughts. What happened to Mr. Pehlivan is unacceptable because of his statement of freedom of thought and expression, without threatening any part of him. Do you want a rematch of the Attorney General's case in Antalya? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0016par0088	Thank you. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0017par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the cries of the families of arrested men are now being voiced every day under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but unfortunately our government is not making an attempt on prisoners. These men are all poor poor children. Their parents sent them to the army to take care of the land, the people, the land, the flag. Some of them can't even read. As Acting Speaker of Parliament, I urge you to refer this matter to the Minister of Justice and the Secretary of Defense, saying that if you do not, I will shout the same question from this council's stand every day as a protest.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0018par0094	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0019par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. Silence of the oppressor in the mosque of Aksa is contrary to freedom of faith and worship. The Republican People's Party strongly condemns this practice. We demand that political power take an immediate stand against Israel and embargo Israel as long as it continues. My regards and regards.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0020par0101	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0021par0104	Thank you. Since the beginning of the 26th century, we've worked as a law factory, but unfortunately we haven't made laws that solve the real problems of the citizen, and some laws that have been made to show off haven't been able to solve the problems of the citizen. Now, there will be a public vote on April 16th. Now that we're in the election process, I'm thinking we should at least solve the citizens' problems while the bag of laws has been seized as an election investment. For example, give birth to our women who have given birth before being insured, those who live in retirement, again, the right to debt to our citizens who are old enough to fill the bonus day, the commitment to subcontractors, the removal of injustices in the laws related to veterans and martyrs, and the first hundred days of elections that have been promised to solve the problems of the society that are promised to solve.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0020par0106	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0022par0108	Mr. President, in the 1993 Sivas Madimak, the Republic was founded here, and it will be destroyed here. The mindset that burned our intellectual, writer, artist, continues to burn its intellectual from that day forward. We've had hundreds of incidents since then. The same mentality set fire to our young people's tents in Gezil yesterday, and set fire to the republic's fortress Müjdat Gezen Art Center in the heart of Istanbul today. I speak to the government: These days when you throw our intellectuals out of the university with the KHK, handcuff them to the piano, the bigots take courage, but we continue to perform, dance, sing, play the piano, and say no. I send my regards to the great heart of the Mujdat Gezen master. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0020par0110	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0023par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. All debts of the citizen who owes public health insurance are being wiped out by the new law, but our citizens, who have paid their debt on time and on time, want to take advantage of it. Is it considered for our citizens to pay their debt regularly, such as a low-primity advance? Do you think it's right that those who can't carry out their constitutional rights while health is a constitutional right to sell the constitutional rights to the citizens, to ask the unemployed man for a bonus?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0024par0115	Mr. Division...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0025par0117	Mr. President, there are major problems with the promotion payments that some 12 million retired citizens have been waiting for with great hope. Banks that provide pension promotions seek the requirement to receive salaries from our pensioners from their banks for three years, as well as the requirement to register at least two automatic payment bills and also use the relevant bank's credit card or credit. The pensioners have to leave their promotional money in the bank, because even the automatic billing order alone is enough to keep the money in the bank. Between $350 and $450 at the most, our pensioners come back empty-handed from the banks they go to. I immediately submit the situation to the government's discretion and demand a solution. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0024par0119	Thank you, Mr. Division. Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0026par0122	I also condemn the persecution ban at the Masjid Aksa, and the massacre at Hodja's on the 25th anniversary, and the genocide, and the genocide. Those who conduct their affairs with consultations have found the correct way in their administration. They say, "Even if you know a thousand, consult a scholar." Listen to one older than you, and one less than you. He has commanded. If you consult the smart one, he'll be yours. Be curious so that you'll be aware. There's no place to be more reliable than an old man's office.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0024par0124	Thank you. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0027par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. During 14 years of Justice and Development Party's rule, our economic growth average was 4.6%. By 2002, however, our average growth rate was 5.1 percent. The growth average for the last ten years is only 3.3 percent. Unemployment has risen to 12.1 per cent. One out of four young people is still unemployed. Our national income per person, which was $10,444 in 2008, dropped to $9.200 in 2016. While the painting is in this state and needs to resolve problems in the economy in hand, for the sake of the presidency, only in the referendum, as we discussed this week, the bag is given temporary incentives, taxes are removed. By implementing the referendum economy, our country's economic problems will not be solved, there will be no problem for our people who are poor in your time of power, and this will say no on April 16th.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0024par0129	Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0028par0131	On the night of February 21, 2017, a threat was sent to our Vice President, Mr. Selin Sayek Böke. We'd like to express that we strongly condemn this. I would also like to announce from here that such phenomena will not in any way deter our friends and all of us. In addition, I would like to share with you about the tortures that I consider very important in Mardin Mardin Körköy, in which authorities must intervene in the end of these tortures and that a crime of humanity is committed directly by the agents of the state, as it is alleged, to be processed quickly. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0029par0134	Thank you, Mr. Sarihan. Mr. Aras...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0030par0137	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are a beautiful city on which they are based in their own Mountain Karabakh. The 366th Russian Armored Regiment is stationed here and its commander is Yuri Zarvigarov. The second battalion commander is now the national defence minister of Armenia, Seyran Ohanyan, and unfortunately in those times, the Mountain Karabag was abandoned at the mercy of this uncontrollable Russian armoured unit. On February 17th, this armored regiment attacked the Montenegrin village in front of Hoxhalı, along with about 2,000 Armenian slaves. The village of Montenegrins, which was taken into custody, was brought down very quickly, where 54 members of the self-security forces were martyred.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0029par0139	Thank you, Mr. Aras. Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0031par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. Twenty-five years ago, the greatest genocide of the century took place in Azerbaijan. On the night of February 25th, under the support of Russian troops, armed Armenian terrorists entered the town of Hoxhalı, killing 83, children, 106 women, and 613 people, including pregnant women; cutting off their heads, slicing their eyes, slaughtering them with brutal, inhuman, monstrous methods. In this attack, 487 people were taken hostage, 1,275 people were taken hostage, 150 were lost, over 1 million Karaböbs were forced to migrate from that area. Their drama is still running, they can't go where they were born, they can't pray in the graves of their relatives. Our brothers' only crime was to become Turks and Muslims. I wish them God's mercy, my condolences to their relatives. But so far, as the Republic of Turkey, we've done nothing but condemn the massacre, share their pain and wish them well, but it's still not too late. On the 25th anniversary of Hoxhalı, the Great National Assembly of Turkey accepted what happened there as a genocide and a crime of humanity with information and documents that were not denied... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and announce it to the world. Justice for the teacher, a curse for genocide!
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0032par0147	Thank you, Mr. Bektasoglu. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the group presidents who are demanding a word. Mr. Akçay, let's start with you. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0033par0152	Thank you, Mr. President. The banning of persecution in this mosque of Aksa is an unacceptable decision and a severe provocation. First, I strongly condemn this decision, and I invite the government to make initiatives in the eyes of Israel. No power in the world will be able to forbid persecution. I hope it's temporary, and the decision makers and enforcers of this will return from their mistakes as soon as possible. Mr. President, as far as the press is concerned, there are rumors that the security of office will be lifted, that the security of office will be provided with a structure that feeds terrorist organizations, and that officers who have seen 20 years later will be able to do or do a coup, so a performance-based system will be brought to the public. I would like to say and remind you that it is not right to target officers with such wholesaleness, because it is not the officers who attempt to strike, regardless of their qualifications, but the terrorists with guns. The job guarantee is actually more about the officer's individual than it is because it's not a guarantee for the officer's person, it's a system designed to ensure the neutrality and continuity of state and public service, and it's been implemented by all states around the world. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I will, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0034par0157	Complete, please, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0033par0158	Taking the officer's security as just a job guarantee would be a misreading of the issue. The officer's job security is not the cause of the coup, but rather, it is useful to see it as an element that protects the state from the coup. If there were no guarantees of civil service in the public, under the name of "performance," an unsecured system based on this criteria should not be overlooked that a state-owned, only public official who loved his country, his nation, would not be able to stay, all of whom could be laid off for performance or other reasons, and could be replaced by terrorist organizations. Both the painful experiences we've experienced, and all the scientific work, the neutrality and continuity of public service... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0034par0161	I'll give you an extension. One minute, please.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0033par0162	...the state is mandatory to ensure that people or groups or informel are not under the influence of illegal structures and that the state is permanent. It can be considered, it can be assessed: First, the definition of "memur" needs to be redefined. And the essence of this definition may be: Who is the officer? The officer is the government's state-of-the-art public official. If that's the criterion, I think it'll make more sense. The main thing is to be careful of the driver's license, integrity and careers of civil servants, the government's state-of-the-art. Today, for example, what will you measure the performance of a tax officer? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0035par0165	Thank you. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0036par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. Tomorrow, we will celebrate and celebrate the liberation of our glorious province, Tripoli, of the enemy's occupation. In the struggle to survive this invasion, I ask God's mercy to all those who are martyrs and veterans, and may their place be in heaven. On this occasion, we, the Republican People's Party Group, congratulate all of our people of Tripoli on this day of salvation, the day of salvation that will be celebrated tomorrow. We want to be known that our hearts are in Tripoli. Mr. President, on the other hand, one of the things that should not be forgotten and forgotten is the Hodja massacre that took place on February 26, 1992. 613 of our people were killed in the teacher massacre, 487 of our people were seriously injured, 150 of our people, 150 of our family members disappeared. I'd like to mark this massacre carefully and briefly, that we are strongly and hatefully condemning the Republican People's Party Group. I wish God's mercy to those who have died in this massacre, so that our hearts and hearts may not be forgotten that we are with our descendants in Azerbaijan. Gene, Mr. President, on the other hand, as an effective, sharp reckoning party in the fight against the State of Emergency, by turning it into an opportunity for the State of Emergency in Turkey, as a party that has pointed to the need for an effective, sharp reckoning from the beginning, knowing this opportunity, there are a number of teachers connected to KESK who are bound to be expelled from their duties in public...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0037par0173	Complete, please, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0036par0174	...and we repeat our call to the government at the point of immediate resolving this injustice. We ask our teachers and therefore our dear students not to be persecuted by the government any more. Again, I would like to say on this occasion that governors and governors of the county must be loyal to the state, governor of the state and governor of the state. We also learn and marvel that the governors of the province will start their campaign before the Prime Minister. Please don't let the governors and the governors forget they're government officials. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0038par0177	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0039par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we are strongly condemning the persecution of the Israeli state in the Masjidi Aksa, the Muslim nation's first qiblah, and as of this morning, we demand that the government be quick to warn the Israeli government of this matter and that this freakish situation be eliminated, and that the Muslims must make an effort to develop a countermeasure against this holy attack. Mr. President, we've been saying this for four or five days, and we're going to say that the detention of nine civil citizens in villages in the village of Talate and Cibilgirav, which has been next to each other since yesterday, except for Herabe Bava, or Koruzköy. In particular, what is happening outside of Körköy, in Born and Wells? We're here to tell you the location of the village, Mr. President, of any kind of operation in the countryside, except for the human rights institutions, the district bar and the human rights committee, our parliamentary committees, these neutral institutions, the NGOs. Why are there no entrances and exits? Why aren't they connected to the outside world? What's going on in these three villages? The fact that no explanation was made yesterday by the government...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0040par0184	Please complete, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0039par0185	The ruling party's deputy leader, for us, has no official and no binding of his statements. The statement of the deputy leader of the group, however, has nothing to do with the statement on the official website of Mardin Governorate. Mardin Governorate says there's been an operation against aiders, Mr. Group Vice President is referring to the organization's regional head of state, the code names we don't know and the names we don't know where he brought his source from. Our problem is our civil citizens, our problem is civilian settlements, and what's going on here. I demand an immediate statement from the government, and I demand that this place be opened to the visit of neutral observer committees, and that the infrastructure be prepared for proper inspections. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0040par0187	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0041par0188	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0040par0189	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0041par0191	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I congratulate you on the 99th year of the liberation of Tripoli from enemy occupation, and I hope that the Genab-i Hak will never cause this kind of incident to happen to our country again. Likewise, a great massacre took place years ago in Hodjalı. I curse those who have committed this massacre, and we condemn them. For those who have lost their lives there, I ask Your Grace for mercy. Prohibition of Ezanımuhammedî is not acceptable in the mosque of Aksa. I'd like to point out that we're condemning this. If Israel is thinking of reaching a place with such practices at the Masjid Aksa, he should also know that he will not be able to reach them. There will be no point in trying to ignore the Palestinians by opening up new settlements there. Yesterday, I have an explanation here, and I, in this statement, have stated that the operations conducted in the area... There's an operation of the terrorist organization planning bombings from here to the Mediterranean provinces and other western cities in particular, using it as a base, where there are some terrorist elements and security units aimed at defusing the terrorists here. It is intended to establish the safety of our citizens, especially our citizens of Kurdish origin, of life and property. The statement I made, the statements I used here -- and I want to state where I got it -- is from the Ministry of Internal Affairs. This may not mean anything to anyone, but I'm not making this statement to please anyone. I made this statement to share the information I received as an MP with the public, Parliament and the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0042par0196	Please complete, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0041par0197	I would also like to point out that at the point of the establishment of the lives and property security of 80 million citizens of our country, I would like to say that the terrorist elements that are a threat to the existence of the country, to its unity, will be eliminated by combating the state's reflex within the law. There will be no going back from this, because the Constitution has given us this responsibility -- we're MPs, we're lawmakers, we're opposition MPs -- here. It is our important duty to establish the safety of the citizens' lives and property. Of course he will, but we're members of the legislature.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0042par0199	Finish it, please.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0041par0200	In this regard, the Constitution also has this clear ruling of the chief, and it is the process of removing these terrorist organisations from the country's agenda -- not only from the PKK, but from the DHKP-C, to the removal of other terrorist elements -- so that it may never disturb the safety of our citizens and property again. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0042par0202	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0043par0203	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0042par0204	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0043par0205	I'm specifically saying, for the record, look, he's talking about non-returning operations, Mr. Group Vice President, that's something else I'm asking. In the beginning of my speech, we talked about the inability to read persecution at the Masjidi Aksa, the first qiblah of Muslims, such as the other group's vice presidents. For thirteen days there has been no prayer in Korköy, and for thirteen days there has been no prayer in Korköy's mosque. I'm talking about stopping life in a civilian settlement. He jumped into the village of Born and Wells today. Why is the operation being done there, not against whom? Why is the civilian settlement cut off from the world? We ask this very simply. Has the Home Secretary informed you, Amenna? The Home Secretary informs the public; the Interior Minister informs the Assembly, not a party official. We've been asking for five days, asking here.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0044par0206	Ask for it, and you get the information.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0043par0207	We asked him yesterday when Mr. Secretary was here, and we asked him when the official government officer was here.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0045par0208	Please complete, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0044par0209	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0043par0210	Mr. President, look, in all of this, I've made it very clear to you that the NGOs -- the parties, the political parties -- are not allowed in these villages. Every day, worrying news comes in. Let me ask you a simple question: where is 60-year-old Abdi Aykut? He was tortured and taken to the hospital, then his hospital record was erased, and he was taken into custody. He was told, "No information. What more can we ask you? I'm asking you a clear question, I'm giving you a concrete name.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0045par0211	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0043par0212	The government has to make an official statement on this matter as soon as possible. He has an obligation to continue his struggle with public safety by protecting civilian residential units and these areas. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0045par0214	Thank you, too.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0046par0215	Mr. President, Mr. President... If the terrorist has entered the civilian headquarters, the security units will take that terrorist by entering it.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0047par0217	Look, Israel says that the terrorist has entered the Mascidi Aksa. According to Israel, the terrorist is in the Masjidi Aksa.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0046par0218	There's an application here called curfew so that no harm can come to the safety of a citizen or the lives of a citizen.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0048par0219	Then take over the operation, Mr. Mush!
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0046par0220	That's why all the sensibilities are being imposed on the citizens so that they don't get hurt. That's the point, there's nothing else.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0049par0221	Thank you. Yes, well, we're coming up with some good work. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The negative attitude and explanations of teachers from imam-hating high schools and some mosque teachers from various judicial events, and finally, on the website of the President of the Dianets, "the possibility of a relationship between father and daughter may be sexual, the fact that there is a grave explanation for the quality of education and curriculum of educational institutions in our country's imam-haki high schools and other religious monopoly. These and similar situations indicate that religious education and institutions in the state monopoly must be redesigned with a new understanding. In order to improve the quality of religious education in our country, people who have a significant value in the community, the negative attitude and behavior of those who have received it, and the quality of religious education in all areas of education, as well as in all areas of education, and to save our people from some superstitions, we offer and propose that the Constitution be opened up to the quality of religious education in the United States, under Articles 104, and 105. 8/2/2016 1) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Slap]] [[Scholarship]] [[Malatya]] [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] [[40s.]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Isparta]] [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[Samsun]] [[Burdur]] 15) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] 20) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Edirne]] [[Mughle]] 26) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Scholarship]] Religion is one of the most important dynamics that determine the development of societies. In this sense, religion has an undeniable importance for the progress of society. The development of societies, again, depends on the material determination of their relationship with the phenomenon of religion. Humanity, as long as it's subject to the dialectic laws of this addiction and as long as it is, develops or regresses depending on the course of its relationship with religion. As a matter of fact, if societies are passed through a detailed historical study, it will be seen that social formations within a religiously-quality training area are in a relatively good place in the history scene. It is easily observed that societies without the quality of education are increasingly regressed by various superstitions and dogmas. This contrast will inevitably lead us to value quality in religious education, which is revealed in comparison between societies that value quality in religious education and communities that embrace religion as if it were a dogma. When you look at societies with this quality of education, religiously educated individuals have an intellectual level that is almost above average anywhere in the world. This level shows itself in both the history of the world and religion, and at the point of being able to speak very different languages. This intellectual savings is a product of religious education, which is vast in the horizon, which raises religious scholars whose face towards enlightenment. All societies that have improved the quality of education in this regard, especially Europe, also appear as areas where social life is better organised. In our country, the education given in the field of religion results in the opposite, much less creating an intellectual individual above average from the person who received it. It creates an individual whose head and horizons are narrow, stuck in dogma, who doesn't speak any foreign languages but Arabic, who has an average knowledge of the history of the world and religions. It can't be that she doesn't deserve to be educated as well as other Islamic religions, which have emerged as the last religion among the Semavi religions. Therefore, education in this field is required to promote religious scholars and staffs with intellectual savings in our country. We have reason to believe that it is necessary to establish a parliamentary research commission by the TBM to establish both the reputation of Islamic religion in the world and the establishment of the country's education in all religious educational institutions, particularly the imam-relative high schools. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, I would like to introduce our Constitution's 98th, 104th and 105th amendments for the investigation of child labor that continues to be a serious problem in Turkey. [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[Isparta]] [[Mersin]] [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[Samsun]] [[Denizli]] 10) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] 11) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mughle]] 16) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Hatay]] [[Ankara]] 20) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Kayseri]] [[Gaziantep]] Child labor is still a serious problem in Turkey. As noted in chapter 23 of the European Union's Progress Report on Turkey, the issue of child labor in Turkey is the top priority. Although preventing the phenomenon of child labor was determined to be one of the primary goals of the 2014 National Employment Strategy, the implementation of the strategy remained very limited in 2015, while child workers continued to be victims of fatal accidents. According to the report 2015, Turkey lost momentum in the fight against child labour in employment. According to the report, 2006-2012 was a period of decline in child labor, and with an increase in agriculture, the number of child workers rose again. In 2012, the number of child workers reached 893. For 2014, children's workers were found for every 100 job murders. According to the same report, children working in economic jobs who failed to attend school increased by 27 per cent in 2006 to 35 per cent in 2012. On the other hand, DİSK-AR's report emphasised that although it is illegal to employ children who have not reached the age of 15 in accordance with Article 71 of Business Act 4857 in Turkey, the withdrawal of mandatory education by law 4+4+4 in 2012 to the age of 6-13 reduced the age of child labor to 13 in effect. The DİSK-AR report noted that the average operational work period for children working in economic jobs throughout Turkey is extremely high. According to TÜİK data, children in a 6-17-year-old group have an average operational working period of 40 hours per week, while it is 45.8 hours for children in a 15-17-year-old group. On average, boys work 43.2 hours a week, while girls work 33 hours a week. The average operational work period is above average for children who do not attend school at 54.3 hours a week. According to the same report, 3.4 per cent of children who work on salary or salary were injured or injured. However, the latest report, published by Save the Children and UNICEF, shows that the number of children who have been abused as workers because of the conflict in Syria and because of the humanitarian crisis has increased and the struggle with child labor has been difficult. In this context, Syrian refugees and other foreign nationals, who are now more than 2 million in Turkey, form another critical dimension. Claims that international textile companies have been running Syrian children in Turkey's supply chains, as has been shown in the media recently, only the loss of a Syrian child worker in December makes it necessary to investigate the issue urgently. In Turkey, I propose and demand that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the number of child workers, investigate the working conditions, investigate the reasons for child labor, and establish the necessary solution proposals, establish the necessary measures for unconcerned and unconcerned working conditions, and determine the strategy for the fight against child labor. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The presidential office is the common value of all of us, the office of the people. The President sitting in this office also represents the state. Since 28 August 2014, Recep Tayyip Erdogan has represented the state as President and has so far been open to criminal and administrative investigations against many citizens for insulting the President. The fact that citizens of the Republic of Turkey are insulting the President, who represents the state and is defined as the head of the state, has as much social and psychological importance as it is legal, is a sign of social trauma. In this context, I respectfully submit to the opening of a parliamentary examination of the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution to protect the dignity of the Republic of Turkey's state in order to determine what the defamation of its citizens and the content of the insults may be, the reasons to insult them and the factors that created them and how to repair them. [[Scholarship]] [[Slap]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Samsun]] [[Mersin]] 7) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] 8) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[40s.]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Burdur]] [[Tekirdağ]] 21) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] 28) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Kayseri]] The presidential office is the common value of all of us, the office of the people, a position that protects social reconciliation and democratic legitimacy. The President sitting in this office represents the Republic of Turkey and the unity of the Turkish nation, observing the implementation of the Constitution, the regular and harmonised work of state bodies. Recep Tayyip Erdogan is the 12th President since 28 August 2014. Cases that have been brought to trial so far have been filed against many citizens for defaming the President, according to press allegations. For example, an operation covering 20 provinces on 1/2/2016 launched an investigation into 53 people for defaming the President. In operations conducted in Isparta, İstanbul, İzmir, Ankara, Antalya, Aydın, Afyonkarahisar, Ağrı, Balıkesir, Çanakkale, Denizli, Hatay, Kahramanmarash, Manisa, Muğla, Army, Sivas and Van, there are teachers, school administrators and officers under investigation. They have been indicted on charges of defaming the President, defaming the state of the Republic of Turkey, the institutions and organs of the state, inciting people to hatred and hostility, defaming the public official for his duty. It is an accusation that public officials who support terrorism and the construction of a parallel state should be brought to justice immediately, and that President Recep Tayyip Erdogan should be insulted by his adjective. The fact that citizens of the Republic of Turkey are insulting the President, who represents the state and is defined as the head of the state, has as much social and psychological importance as it is legal, is a sign of social trauma. The examination of the files of those who have been under judicial and administrative investigations so far to determine which presidents are being insulted by citizens in previous years will allow for a social trauma to be revealed. In this context, it should be investigated to protect the dignity of the Republic of Turkey's state to determine what is the insult of citizens and the content of insults, the reasons for insults and the factors that created these reasons and how to repair them. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Thursday 23/2/2017 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. On February 22, 2017, it was suggested by Vice President Ahmet Yıldırım (number 3942) that the parliamentary inquiry motion given to Turkey's Grand National Assembly in order to investigate all the sizes of the unlawfulness of HDP co-Chairs and 11 MPs who were arrested on 4/11/2016 in violation of legal legislation should be read in the same-date jointment of the talks in Thursday (23/2/2017) and held before other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. Peoples' Democratic Party will speak first in favour of the group's proposal, Mr. Mithat Sancar, Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0050par0437	Mr. President, we've always said that a political coup plan has been under way since the removal of immunity, and we've also stated that this is a number of phases. The previous stage was the detention of our co-chairs and deputies, followed by arrest. The political power, the President and the government, which has now obviously decided to step into a new stage, is the application of our MPs' delegation. This is a new turn in the coup process. Now, the other day here was read a verdict of imprisonment on our co-Chair, Mr. Yüksekdağ, who was declared to have fallen, which was already on the website of the Parliamentary Presidency. Now, where do we start? Let's start by saying that this practice has a very important reason why this political coup plan has come to this stage today. The ruling bloc seems to be hoping for a two-way benefit in the referendum process; the first benefit is to lower the vote. They think that if the HDP is not employed, if it is disabled like this, the votes will also fall. They're right, we know that if we don't work, the vote will fall, but there will be no stopping us from working, so let me remind you. Their second hope is to raise nationalist emotions by making us scapegoats and bond nationalist votes, so the whole goal is to raise the vote in the referendum, to lower the vote, no. The target they found is the Democratic Party of Peoples, which they find suitable to attack. I'm going to repeat one thing I've said over and over again here, it's a revenge operation, and it's the revenge of June 7th, and there's a lot to be done about it, starting on June 8th. And now it's been brought up to provide these benefits in the active referendum and to further deepen the revenge plan by lowering our MPs' parliamentary duties. What do the ruling party speakers say? Sir, there's a verdict on the subject of the Supreme Court. This decision had to be passed here by the Speaker of Parliament. So what we do is a routine procedure. Congressmans... although there aren't many MPs here, especially the ruling group of 316... Then, naturally, we prefer to address our people. My dear people, I just want to show you what the judgment is that they call independent. The three judges and the prosecutor have been suspended as part of what the ruling party has declared to be the bloodiest, most treacherous terrorist organization in history and has been arrested. What judges and prosecutors? Three members and prosecutors of the court's committee, who have decided to condemn Mr. Yüksekdağ, have been discharged. Because they belong to what you call a raging terrorist organization. Well, if they're members of such an organization, if they're such traitors, what's the point of doing this process here based on their decision? Is it only dangerous when he interferes with your work and acts against you? If these are truly terrorists, if these are the most violent terrorist organizations, how do you deal with their decisions as judges and prosecutors? Let's move on. The sentence is a ten-month sentence. Why was it given? From propaganda, propaganda for a terrorist organization. Now, if you apply the 76th article -- which you have to apply the 76th article of the Constitution -- there can be a process here that can result in the fall of acting as a deputy because of only two groups of crimes. One is to participate in acts of terror or to incite and encourage acts of terror, and the other is to receive a year or more convictions. These two aren't here, we've told you that many times. Propaganda is a separate crime, incitement and incentive to acts of terror is a separate crime. Oh, what's the matter with the court? There's not a word from Mr. Yüksekdağ, there's no speech; he attended a memorial and was admitted to be a terrorist propaganda officer because he was there. Now, of course, we're looking for consistency. Humanity's common ethics have very minimal needs - consistency, satire. For example, in 1998, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan was convicted of inciting people to hatred and hostility, correct? What was it he did? It was reading a poem. Well, it was considered unfair, and I thought it was unfair. That decision was not a fair one. He has a judgment, therefore he is fair. How did you call, and how did you oppose those who said, And you did it right, it wasn't a fair decision. So, what has been done to keep Mr. Erdogan in politics? The Constitution has been changed. Then something was done right for me, too. Those who advocate democratic politics against such unjust decisions, which have led to the obstruction of their right to political rights, must do what is necessary to eliminate obstacles in this matter. At that time, in 2002, the Parliament changed various articles of the Constitution and recognised Mr. Erdoğan's right to make politics, and the road to the presidency was opened. Look, I'm here against their policies in the most obvious way, and I wish it hadn't been done. I'm not saying it was done, it's done right. All I'm saying is that you're doing your best to do what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing. Ethics requires it, conscience requires it. If you're acting against it, what you're doing is unethical, first of all, it's illegal, but it's also unethical. What we're waiting for is a simple consistency, what we're waiting for is a little conscience and most of all satire. If you look at what you've done and you don't feel any pain, you've got your conscience, your integrity, and your ethics. Now, we know that all of this has a purpose: to shut down our party. Well, if you want to shut us down, if you want to keep us from working, you've already got a court order, you give the Attorney General an order, he'll close the case, we'll settle it there. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, However, we will continue our work to the very end, and no one will doubt it. We have faith, determination, and public support that will nullify all of these methods, and no one will hesitate, but what we expect from you is conscience, friends, consistency, ethics. Mr. President, I have a promise to you, and for what it's worth, you have a history of important roles in the struggle for justice and law, and I'm a witness to that. Is it because of such severe injustice practices that you are involved in the combinations that you are conducting the session? Did you, by any chance, object? Why didn't you refuse to read that gross lawless decision here? That's what your past struggle for justice and law would have required, that's what I'd expect. The advisory committee isn't meeting, the party isn't being briefed. It's a very shady decision; it's already been decided by the committee, by the ruling committee, by the Constitutional provisions. I expected you to refuse to read it. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0051par0452	Thank you. Mr. Sancar, we've been talking about this for two days. You weren't in the House, but I have no authority to refuse the agenda, and I want you to know that. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0052par0455	Mr. President, if I may, I'd like to make a brief statement.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0051par0456	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0052par0457	Yesterday, I told you, it's not two days before your name comes into our conversation... look, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan's decision 19 years later, and the decision that was read here the previous day will remain a black mark on the forehead of this House for years and decades. It's not a matter of two days, two months, and I'm particularly asking you, that this decision must be re-examined and taken back, but if it isn't, there's a violation of the Constitution, the Civil Code... Look, should it or shouldn't it be, Mr. President, whether or not the Presidential Court should be convened? None of this, nor the procedure, nor the fact that nothing has been observed. Let it be, let it be two days, believe me, in 20 years, this decision will again be a decision of the Supreme Court. You've signed such a decision, or by signing it, I mean, it's in your session. Let me put it this way. Look, why is there a positive mention? In 60 years, Cemil Cicek will still be blessed; he has done the right thing, the moral, the conscientious thing, for him. Mr. Aktaş, Mr. Alan, I'm telling you that Mr. Tuncel has written his own name on the white page of democracy's history by not having his decisions read. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0053par0461	I understand perfectly, but I want to stress that my position is not Mr. Cemil Flowers. That's what's wrong with me, I've been stressing it for two or three days. On the other hand, it's in your discretion whether or not you want to bring it up. Peoples' Democratic Party will first speak against the group's proposal, Ankara MP Murat Alparslan. Here you go, Mr. Alparslan.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0054par0465	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. In HDP's group proposal, some arrests are mentioned as unjust, irregularities, and eventually a parliamentary investigation into certain names and all of them is requested. As a matter of fact, we're definitely talking about something unpleasant. Surely it is a fact that in the Parliament, which is the nature of the will of the nation, the involvement of lawmakers in terrorism, the accusation of terrorism, perhaps the detention and arrest of them in this sense, in some way disturbs the MPs who believe that they represent the will of the entire nation under this roof. The heart would wish that every friend of ours, who is the representatives of the nation and who is the main defender of their will, would be able to perform law enforcement within the democratic legal framework. But, unfortunately, in the face of a lot of things that hurt and hurt us, all this has happened before the public. This process, perhaps months ago, is to be removed from each of us's work. After a step that began and became a square, it continued according to procedure, following the coming of the proceedings to the Parliamentary presidency, the Constitutional Commission and its end was completed after the General Assembly. In a system where we express the separation of powers and express it at every opportunity, the immunity of the judiciary has also been achieved within its own independent and impartial authority and right to the MPs who are shielding their immunity. In this sense, the process was completed by the reading of the post-contribution decision by the Parliament's acting body in accordance with the predetermined agenda established by Articles 76, 83 and 84 of the Constitution. The framework of all operations and the rules of the democratic rule of law are known to all who have been established in accordance with the Constitution, the law, and the procedure. In the end, it is not possible to accept claims that these actions were removed from the legal framework and evolved into another point, especially a coup plan, and that the ruling party, in this sense, ran this legal process, with a mindset such as the coup d'état. As soon as it is established, it is clear, clear, that a political will, which has seen the nation's will, the sovereignty above all things, and has fought against every power and power of the nation in this sense, has lifted them together and fought the coups before it, as well as in its own time. Therefore, it is unacceptable that this process is being used as a political engineering. The AK PARTY has always fought the blows and will continue to do so. This nation, I'm afraid, has witnessed an attempt at an occupation on the 15th of July, and, again, this nation has broken down this attack by not leaving its will, its sovereignty, and its power in this ward. In the coming process, hopefully a constitutional amendment is under way, in terms of further registering, investigating, and strengthening the will and sovereignty of the nation. Our wish is that this process will end with acceptance, which will contribute to the strengthening of this will. We express our wishes at every turn and show our zeal for them. Therefore, by declaring that we do not accept HDP's claims on this matter, I respectfully salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0055par0473	Thank you, Mr. Alparslan.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0056par0474	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0055par0475	Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0056par0476	Now, in two ways, the orator teased us -- one, the motion we've made contains an unpleasant subject, and the second, a more severe taunt. Even the punishment of our co-Chair, given by the judges of that Laughing Congregation, is propaganda. What did he say? He said the arrest, the arrest, the removal of our immunity was through terrorism-related files. There's no such verdict in the middle. He picked on me. According to the Civil Charter 69, Mr. Sancar will speak.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0055par0477	Mr. Sancar, come in. Two minutes...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0057par0481	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alparslan, in my earlier speech, I asked for a few very simple things: consistency, conscience, satire. Look, how many decisions have you argued that Mr. Erdogan and your party spokesman have not been pleased with? He is not independent, he is not impartial. It was a decision made in 1998 that would result in Mr. Erdoğan being banned from politics for the rest of his life. Was it fair? Was it all just judgment? And then the rulers said, "There is a fair judgment, a judgment, what should we do?" Now, don't take refuge here. Second, in the process of immunity, we didn't mean to impose on a freak overnight such as the removal of total immunity against the Constitution. Everyone has the right to defend, the procedure, the Civil Code in the process of removing their immunity in this House. Let them be followed, let them be removed. We've petitioned, if you want to lift it, make it work, lift it up. But we didn't say, unconstitutional, undefensive, unconstitutional, unconstitutional, unconstitutional, unconstitutional, unconstitutional, unconstitutional. At the time, however, we proposed a constitutional amendment. Come on, admit it, we'll all get up again, and you won't accept that either. As for the other matter, you're referring to it as an invasion attempt on July 15th. I can admit, I wouldn't say anything, so it's obvious to me that there was a coup, a heavy, bloody, treacherous coup attempt. But all four members of the court committee who made this decision about Figen Yüksekdağ are occupational forces. You're lowering our co-chair's power of attorney based on the occupational forces' decision?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0058par0485	The Supreme Court gave it to me.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0057par0486	Answer this.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0058par0487	Mr. Sancar, the Supreme Court's approval...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0057par0488	Give it here, give it here!
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0059par0489	Thank you, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0058par0490	It's Supreme Court approval. Talk about that.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0057par0491	Come on, give it here!
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0058par0492	You're a lawyer, read the Supreme Court decision.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0057par0493	If he is, so is he.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0058par0494	The Supreme Court has approved it, before it's approved?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0057par0495	Investigate... come, I'll set up a research commission, we've made several motions on the judiciary, let's set it up.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0060par0496	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... In favour of the group's proposal, Peoples' Democratic Party will finally speak to İzmir MP Mustafa Ali Balbay. Mr. Balbay, please.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0061par0503	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. When you came to power, the MPs of the ruling party had 50,000 people in prisons in 2002. In the eighth year of your power -- let's say half of it -- there were 11,000 people in 2010, and today there are 17,000 in prisons. Bernard Shaw has a beautiful saying that if there's a prison in a country, it doesn't matter who's in it; it's sure to enter a person you don't expect. We've seen a lot of examples of it recently, and today, indeed, there are 100 percent of it in prisons. It used to be filled for tourism, and now it's being used for prisons, and some of them even have 200 percent in prisons, lawmakers. You might say: "These were terrorists, they were criminals, we arrested them, we locked them up. There's 90 percent of the people you arrested recently, the MPs, they don't have an indictment. Writers and executives of the Cumhuriyet daily are awaiting indictment. HDP MPs are facing a painting that you're arresting two of them, releasing one of them, taking back what you've released. This painting suggests that you are in search and constraint to digest as much as we can and draw them to a point, at least in the referendum, to not say a strong no. The same seems to be the case in the operation. You called this group -- your definition -- six meetings, middle trade, top betrayal. But your current arrests are all low and low. You tell them to come to their knees, then come to us. That's what the painting shows. Congressmans, I was going to quote a few authors, but I thought you might agree to a measure of hope, Nizamümülmülmuk, and I'll remind you of one of his words. Nizamülmülmülk says the strong state is with strong justice. Nothing protects the government but strong justice. Justice is more effective than the most powerful weapons, and the highest fortresses. You have destroyed the fortress of justice, and worse yet, you have made justice a weapon. These arrests... people in prison, above all else, they want to know your guilt, they want to know your guilt. The pianist Dengin Ceyhan who was arrested three days ago said he insulted the President. Friends, three journalists have been sitting down, looking for what word he insulted, and they haven't been able to find it for three days. Is there such violence? A pianist is arrested in a country, and journalists are looking for what he's guilty of, and they can't find him. Again, our friend Samet Burak Sarı of the CHP's Maltepe Youth Corps has been arrested again for insulting the President. He also proved that the tweets did not belong to him, but he was sent to the hearing. Congressmans, you'll see this painting in the future, just as it was referred to by the unfair trials of September 12th, and years later, if the practices of that period are still being discussed, it goes there. You will not be remembered because you have now filled the prisons in Turkey so much that today, if the latest news is true, let's suspend 100,000 people, get the prisons a little empty, arrest new people. And again, the table in Ankara shows that some of the operations have been delayed because the prisons are full. Now, in such an environment, how can you claim that we will make this country more democratic and that democracy will be strengthened in this country's future along with the referendum? Now, I'm talking about Nizamülmülmülk. Members of parliament, Nizamülmülk will become a thousand years old next year, born in 1018; was the prime minister of the title. There was only one queen, Seljuklu, who was responding to today's Prime Minister. If they had thought of your logic, the Nizamülmülmülmün would not have happened today. And Nizamülmülmülk, in his book, which I have just quoted, which is effective even today, has been making so many evaluations of the state's justice that I suggest you take a look at it at least. Now, while Nizamülmülmulk was forming the state order at that time... look, first he became the queen of Alparslan, then he became the queen of Melikşah. When Melikşah, Nizamülmülmülk made further assessments of such state order, the gossipers took your place, and called on you to share your power. When you said, "Is Nizamülmülmülk?" Nizamülmülmülk replied: "The arc on your head is standing with my divit. When you shut down the divit, you're finished. Today's arrests, your silence of newspapers, your arrests, intimidation and threats against journalists, your threats to politicians, your latest Selin Sayek Böke, our Vice President's threat on live air and private protection, all of this, lawmakers, show that the state force that will keep you going is being destroyed. Another reflection of these trials corresponds to this sentence in the Middle Ages, in the Middle Ages, they say that in the Middle Ages, they arrest people like this, they say that you will change the structure of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors in order to change the current state. Imagine there -- members of lawmakers, I can't even share this example -- you raised the number of members of the HSYK to 22, you reduced them to 13. Erdogan will appoint four of the 13 members as the top president of the state. Erdoğan will appoint him as the head of the two. He will appoint the Minister of Justice and his undersecretary. Erdogan will elect all seven of them from parliament as chairman of the Justice and Development Party. I mean, I don't even want to predict what kind of judgment you're using today after April 16th with a judgment that you're going to shape all your own.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0062par0513	That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0061par0514	Of course not, he's our deep faith. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Congressmans, if you want this term to be a bit of a blessing... the April 16th referendum will, indeed, benefit the Justice and Development Party the most. (HPP applauses) Today's legalism, which Turkey faced after it had emerged, will be questioned again as a weapon, and Turkey will take a comfortable breath. Today, perhaps in the intoxication of your own power... all these trials have just been tried by the ruling party's MP... but none of this will be left behind, my friends. I say, as those who are judging Socrates are not in their right mind today, but if Socrates is still standing today and Socrates' defense is the basis of justice for 2,500 years, then most of what you have declared traitorous today, most of what you have judged, you will see in the near future, will build the future of this country. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0063par0520	Thank you, Mr. Balbay. Peoples' Democratic Party will finally speak in İstanbul MP Tülay Kaynar, against the group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0064par0524	Mr. President, I've been promised against the HDP group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. I called it against the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) group proposal because our agenda is under discussion as of Tuesday. We've completed chapter one. Today, hopefully, we're predicting the completion of the second chapter's talks. With that feeling and thinking, he wishes well for our new bill, and that, unlike the speaker just now, April 16th would end in yes.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0065par0527	No, no, no, no. It'll be good.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0064par0528	...and that a very precious, very rewarding process will begin for our country, and I sincerely hope that in this precious time period, our people, the national will, will do as it always does, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0066par0530	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0067par0531	Mr. President, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit01spe0066par0532	I will submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes, and I will look for a sufficient number of decisions: All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0066par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the People's Democratic Party group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. Congressmans, we're moving on to the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will resume our talks with Justice and Budget Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st rank, Justice and Development Party's Deputy President Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitas. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------2. Session-----------------------------Moonial/1 Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. In yesterday's merger, the votes were completed in the first chapter of Law Proposal No. 456, which was considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second part includes 12 to 26 ▪ Articles. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the second chapter, Deputy Kahramanmarash Fahrettin Oguz Tor will speak. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0068par0019	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the second part of the Law Proposal to Change Some Laws under the Law Act 456, and I hereby salute you. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the overall health insurance system, which has been implemented since 1/1/2012, has unfortunately failed to achieve the expected outcome. Six years later, the system needs to be revised. Since the expected outcome has not been achieved, today we strive to simplify the system and reduce the timetable. In particular, it is important to say that general health insurance premiums have been faced with significant difficulties, with the lack of health premiums, with the exception of those paid by the state -- as stated in general -- in the collection of the other taxpayers' bonuses, due to the complexity of the system, the lack of health premiums. We welcome the arrangement, which is intended to be simple, practical. Dear lawmakers are unable to accurately identify the failure of general health insurance, the complexity of the simple system, the lack of health premiums. The problem is economics. See, as of December 2015, the number of mandatory insurance holders within the scope of 4/A dropped from 19 million to 535,000, to 18 million 856, exactly one year after November 2016. The decrease in the number of mandatory insurancees in one year is exactly 197,248. That means 200,000 people a year become needy. In an economy where unemployment will not increase in employment in an average of 700,000 people per year, it is a serious economic problem to address, with nearly 200,000 people falling out of employment. Our population increased by 1.6 per cent in 2016 compared to the previous year. This increase means more than 300,000 active populations. It is clear that the economy is in serious distress in terms of employment, when it is expected that unemployment will not increase if it creates 700,000 jobs under normal conditions, when the employment decline and the increase of the active population are considered together. As a result of this ordeal, unemployment has set a historical record and has risen to 12.1 per cent as of November 2016. The youth population's unemployment rate increased by 3.5 points to 22.6 per cent. No matter how much we consolidate the tax debt, the premium debt, let's set up the property peace law, as long as the economy doesn't liven up, there's no point in making arrangements unless we reduce unemployment. Precious lawmakers, 4/B, trades and artists and other independent employees, when we look at the incident in their name and account in agriculture, the number was 2 million 833,000, as of December 2015, 12 months after a full year, as of November 2016. So in the 12 months leading up to November 2016, 126,426 people, tradesmen and artists, left the system as farmers. Today, the price of a litre is more than 4.5 TL, and it is not easy to farm in such an environment. It is clear that no one will stop farming, even in the case of minimum income. In the past year, it's been more than 126,000 people who have worked for themselves to quit their jobs, each of whom is an artist, each of them is a farmer's family -- more than 500,000 people -- half a million people -- have been deprived of income, income. Of course, there are reasons why the tradesman, the artist, the farmer quit his job. As of today, the dollar is 3.62 TL, and the euro is 3.84 TL. As of November 2016, unemployment is 12.1 per cent, inflation is close to 10 per cent. The price of diesel, gasoline, gas, fertilizer, bait has been tremendously high. In such an environment, it was not possible for a tradesman, an artist, a farmer, to continue his work. As soon as the AKP agrees, however painful, there is a fact that the farmer is in a difficult position. It's also a sign that a million people leave their jobs within a year. Dear MPs, today the minimum monthly premium of the BUG-KUR is 613 lira 23 cents. The lowest monthly bonus of farmer BUG-KUR is 490 lira 59 cents. A large percentage of the BUG-KURL can't benefit from a five-point bonus reduction, because the terms of benefits are heavy. On average, the premium collection from three or five months ago was at 50 per cent, while today the rate has dropped by 10-15 points. And so it continues to shut down, to leave your job. Because of increased input prices, the farmer has become unable to plow his field. So whoever closes his doors will not bring peace in the ark of the Ayat (proofs, evidences, verses, lessons, signs, revelations, etc.) for those who leave their jobs. After bankruptcy, it's not about helping a few cents, it's about getting the tradesman, the farmer, the artist to live, before it goes bankrupt, before it closes. Dear lawmakers, another issue is the number of public officials listed as part of 4/C. About 3 million and 83,000 in June 2016 prior to the July 15 coup attempt, the number dropped to around 2 million 985 000 in November 2016. The reduction is 97,766. With the latest decisions included, the reduction has exceeded 100,000 in public officials. A reduction of 100,000 public servants means an average of 300-400,000 populations. During the period of 2007, after the AKP was in power in 2002, it was a relief to transport private hospitals, especially to the services of citizens, to open the way for public, private-patient treatment, and not to pay additional fees in the first place to public health care. As a result of this relief, the AKP has seen a clear picture of the election in the 2007 elections. After 2007, additional fees were applied to private hospitals. In 2008, the additional wage rate of private hospitals paid 30 per cent extra was increased to 70 per cent in 2009, to 90 per cent in early 2012. More than 200 per cent can be paid in private hospitals starting in May 2013. To give you an example, in a private hospital, a patient who costs $100 for a package or other treatment will pay an additional $200. Among these, the citizen's contributions and additional payments stemming from the prescription. In private hospitals, a small-income examination has been eliminated. The reduction of the overall health insurance premium to 53 TL will not prevent additional payment. Therefore, the reduction of the bonus will not solve the citizens' problems enough. Dear lawmakers, another issue: As a result of spinning capital in medical school and full-time practices, many educated professors have had to resign, retire. Today, many of the trained professors have examined patients in the clinics where they opened up, but in particular in cases of surgical intervention, they charge substantial amounts of money due to their surgical intervention in private hospitals. I don't mean to accuse private hospitals and faculty here at all. Because I know that as a doctor, especially as a person who knows the difficult steps he's had to go through to get his expertise, his teaching membership, he doesn't grow up that easily. The problem is that this group, which is not easy to grow, is sentenced to $3,5,000 a month in rotating capital. A reduction in employment in one year is close to 500,000, both as public servants and farmers, both covered by insurance. The increase in active population is 320. In the face of such an economic picture, no matter how much you lower the overall health insurance premium, the expected success will not be achieved. The solution is in revitalization of the economy; the solution is in hard work; the solution is in preventing waste; first of all, it is in favor of right, law and justice; the solution is in preventing the insurance, the loss of the job of the AUG-KURL, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0069par0034	Thank you, Mr. Tor. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Istanbul MP Garo Paylan will speak. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0070par0037	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. For months, as Plan and Budget Commission and as General Assembly, friends, what are we doing most of the time? We're discussing economic resuscitation measures. What are we doing? We're discussing tax reconstruction. We've talked about tax reconstruction over and over again. We're talking about the farmer's proposals for the restructuring of the tradesman's debts. We're discussing the loan configuration, and we're offering to open new loans without collateral; we're offering to lend interest-free loans to the shopkeeper, the craftsman. We're doing all this, we're doing it, what's going on? Look, for about eight months we've been giving the credit, we've been saying, we're trying to kill the economy. What's the result? The economy doesn't come alive. Look, I've been to a lot of tradespeople over the weekend, seriously. The shopkeepers say: "We can't do business, so what if you build up my debt? Today you will erase my debt, and tomorrow I will have that debt. What if you say zero interest? I can't pay the mother of debt so that I can pay the calf. In that frame, friends, all these things don't come to fruition. Look, we went to the industrialists. Industrialists say that our use rate is extremely low. They say, "Build us workers." They say, "We can't work the current worker." He says, "We've been working overtime in the past; we've been hiring workers; now we can't hire the current worker; we can't give the current worker work; our capacity rates are low." Now, that means it's not working out, guys, so the business is not working out, because look -- I've been a shopkeeper -- when does the shop pay the tax regularly? When it works. If the market works, if the store works, if he pays, he doesn't even notice taxes, he pays, he pays, because the business is going round, the wheels are spinning. When the wheels stop, you get the rent, you get the workers' money, you get the tax, and you can't pay it. The important thing is to turn the wheel. What do you think of turning the wheels? Do you wonder why these wheels don't turn? You know why the wheels don't turn, fellas? Look, the February-month consumer trust index has been announced. In February, the consumer trust index shows 65. So it's shown the lowest level since 2009, even below 2009. What does that mean? The consumer doesn't trust it. If the consumer doesn't trust him, he doesn't spend, he doesn't turn the wheel, the industrialist doesn't build because he doesn't want a trade. That means the wheels won't spin, it won't. What are we gonna do? We're going to look at social policy, and we're going to look at social psychology, the psychological dimension, the sociological dimension. What do we see in this, fellas? Look, what does the economy want? It takes trust. Indian, once again, citizens of the Republic of Turkey will want trust, trust the economy. This trust is crawling down the drain. For the foreign investor, you dropped the VAT to zero, but the stranger wanted a safe country, a democratic country, a country that was on the road to democracy, and he was investing in a country that was on the road; you didn't have to reset the VAT, he was buying houses without resetting the VAT, he was investing. But today, Western investors are leaving without looking back. What we need, my friends, is the removal of the state of emergency. Are you ready to lift the state of emergency? In order for the economy to come alive, we need to lift the extraordinary state. Freedom of the press. Look, in a country where the press is free, people are free. If we free the press, don't worry, the economy will come to life because people will see that they've been expressed, that their troubles are reflected in the press. Dear friends, the economy also revives by developing a democratic climate because if a democratic climate develops, everyone has confidence in the economy. What we need is to discuss a pluralistic constitution, not the constitutions of one man. If we go all this way, the economy will come alive. But unfortunately, the government isn't on this road; it just thinks that the economy will come to life by restructuring, by delaying the tradesman's debt, but it doesn't. Mr. Secretary, you've taken a lot of precautions. I've asked you on the Plan Budget Commission. You've taken measures in accordance with the law, with about 300 articles, with a number of clauses. We've done configurations on the Plan Budget Commission. I said: give a briefing. You didn't do that in the Plan Budget Commission, you had a schedule in Europe; at least do one for the Assembly General Assembly. So, you've done all this stuff, you've done all this configuration, you've postponed the debt, you've erased the debt, what about this budget? We only have one anchor left. Financial discipline, right? There's only one anchor left. I think it looks like a $10 billion hole. How long is this hole going to be? Let me know. So many laws have been issued, what will be the impact, what will be the impact analysis? After you left, the Plan Budget Commission got much worse, and our ministers arrived. I swear to God, you guys are on the Plan Budget Commission, but I think you should fill me in here.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0071par0046	Are you talking to me?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0070par0047	I'm telling the Minister.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0071par0048	Oh, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0070par0049	We were able to argue a little bit more about Mr. Secretary staying, but then it got much worse, without our ministers giving us any information, and unfortunately, Mr. President there, without taking initiative, these materials passed through very poor conditions, and there's no quality of living, Mr. Secretary. We expect you to give a briefing in that sense.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0071par0050	I didn't take the initiative?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0070par0051	Yeah, and you didn't take the initiative.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0072par0052	Let's not talk mutually, please.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0071par0053	Mr. President, there's teasing.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0072par0054	You want to talk about bullying, I give you my word, you talk about it.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0073par0055	Dear friends, the economy wants trust, and the foreign wants it to be a safe country. Look, our country is at war, so the Turkish Armed Forces are at war in Syria. We're losing our soldiers. Mr. President said we wouldn't go any lower than El Bab. About a month ago. Well, if it isn't, I guess it finally came to me. A week from now, we will march to Rakka. Who persuaded him to walk to Rakka (Rakka) within the week, and what circumstances did he persuade him to agree to? Look, in the United States-Russian equation, where both of them are looking for actors, two great powers, soldiers to fight, just as in Korea, they are looking for soldiers to fight here, just as in other wars the poor people's soldiers were killed. Negotiations are under way for Turkish Armed Forces to go to ISIS's headquarters in Rakka. Every time Turkey approaches Russia, the United States objects, and on the contrary, Russia objects if Turkey approaches America and tries to use the Kurdish card -- in a sharpness. To prevent these two superpowers from using this card -- I'm telling you in a nail -- Turkey says I'm willing to make that concession whatever you want. Ready. Will tens of thousands of Turkish Armed Forces fight? Ready. Are all Turkish Armed Forces troops, planes, tanks ready? Ready. We are prepared to make all these concessions. For what? So that the Kurdish people would not live in a democratic Syria, in an autonomous structure with other peoples. Because if Syria is democratic, if there are autonomous structures in Syria, Syria knows that if there is a democratic federation, it will also be reflected in Turkey, because the pluralist knows that such a singularist Turkey can't be next to a democratic Syrian. In this sense, he is trying to drown those who want to walk the path of this democracy in Syria. What's he doing for it? Three years ago, in order to drown the regime in Syria, the understanding of the sectarian understanding had hit the wall; now, with a nationalist coalition, he dives in there and says: I will not even build a tent there. To that end, he's had a bloody knife three years ago, and he's even behind the back doors -- according to news, he's trying to cooperate with the Russian government -- he's trying to cooperate with the Trump administration. For what? Look, you're going to try to drive tens of thousands of our troops into the deserts of Rakka. What are the risks of that, fellas? We could lose thousands of soldiers. What are the risks? Once ISIS finds out that it has been cornered, we can do many provocations and acts of terror in Turkey, we can get stuck in the Rakka swamp, and we can face many internal provocations and many provocations of America, Russia, and the regime, and even many provocations of Iran. So, with all these risks, what's the Grand National Assembly of Turkey doing? He's not doing anything because why? The AKP, CHP, MPP voted yes to a statement, said, "O Recep Tayyip Erdogan, whatever operation you perform against Syria, we give you authority." See, the former Chief of Staff had a very important saying: a hundred years ago, we gave such authority to Enver Pasha, and he smoked the country. That's not what one man said. He said. Now, we're giving the only man this authority again, but the Clave is doing nothing. Let's take a look at this, guys. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0074par0061	Thank you, Mr. Paylan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu will speak. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0075par0065	Mr. President, I have been promised to speak on behalf of my group on the second part of the Bill Proposal of Bag 456. I salute you all. There are regulations for different laws in this department: a general health insurance policy is given to an employer who receives unemployment allowance; Turkish citizens' general health insurance can't be used to employ non-Turkish royalty, non-Turkish workers. There are provisions that will be reduced by recalculation of general health insurance loans; there are provisions that go. My dear friends, this is a bag of law. Really, the word "torba" has just been invented, a few years' work. We made this law, this arrangement, in accordance with that word. Our friends expressed that, Mr. Minister, first came in the form of an offer from the deputy leader of the group, then the bill came in, then the two withdrew, then the Minister of Finance had left, then the Commission, other ministers had come in; neither the assessment of the impact nor the correction of sentences, nor the MPs were informed of what they meant. That's no way to make a law, dear friends. If the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is going to make a law, if there is a need, if there is a need for the government to offer it, there are NGOs to sit, talk about it, mature until it comes to the commission, and political parties involved in the commission provide the necessary contributions to the commission, and there is a serious debate on these issues in the Grand National Assembly General Assembly General Assembly of Turkey, which we do not do. What do we do instead? In the form of panic, especially after the November 1st elections, when the economy and everything goes wrong, it's random, and if we do this, do you think it's going to hold up a bunch of patches, do you think it's going to hold up a lot of offers, and we're talking about them, but after every patch, it's all falling apart again. My dear friends, this is what you see when you come in and we talk about these debts, especially when they're erased, over and over again, reconstructions, pardons, wide-ranging incentives, all of this. As a result of economic policies by the Justice and Development Party, we're taking measures to reduce these problems in all parts of society -- workers, employees, businessmen, all parts of society, if you can think of. Look, they've been restructured 11 times; they're now being restructured on a matter that's already been structured. That means that my dear friends, this government can't govern the economy; in fact, the numbers we have are very clear about that, dear friends. The main reason for this is not just economics, but democracy-related gaps in the state of law are also important, but even these three digits show that economic policies that the government has implemented have collapsed. Mr. Secretary, we're really hesitant to talk about the numbers because you've redacted these numbers over and over and over again. It was like this, it wasn't true; our savings were like this, now it's like this; our national income was like this, now it's like this. So if there's any hesitation about the numbers we've given you, it's not our fault, it's the government's fault. Since you came to the government, you've used over 2.5 trillion dollars today, so you've collected taxes, borrowed money, privatized in 15 years. What happened after that, my dear friends, as a result of the economy you boast so much about? You've paid the interest, and here's an investment of 700 billion and 386 billion, my dear friends. I mean, what you've been bragging about, what you've been doing, is where we've come from, my dear friends. In fact, that's what you're trying to do with a record pardon, a tax pardon, a bonus pardon, a pardon for credit, a pardon for other issues, or that's what they're showing. How do you get out of this painting, my dear friends? Why are we here? The government is not asking that question in any way. That's not what the government's direction is about right now, if not, we're interested in Turkish-type president. We say we don't have valuable friends, we don't have money, we don't have savings. We need to get rich so all this can be fixed. How are we going to get rich? What are we gonna do to get rich? We'll produce it and sell it. We look at what we produce, what we sell, what we buy, what we have in between, we have a great foreign trade deficit, we have a great deal open; I don't go into numbers. Unfortunately, we're far from being a country that can compete, which has the added value of what it produces, which can market, and we're getting further and further away. Other policies, of course, will be invested, this investment will be set in motion. Our friend who just talked about psychology. Yes, psychology is also extremely important. For that, you will have a democracy in the country that will not really be discussed, a state of law that will not be discussed. When something happens, when something happens to you, people have to be able to predict, what happens, and what will I be faced with as a result? This is what our merchants and tradesmen predict: I will not pay this tax, I am already in trouble, and there will be a pardon. The government does not embarrass them at all, my dear friends. As a result, we've already breached the budget in 2017, and the anchor we call financial discipline has already disappeared, my dear friends. My fellow lawmakers, this is the general economic picture, but that's not what the government is busy with right now. Yeah, the economy's not going well, we're at war, we're at war, our democracy is a problem, we're facing a coup, but don't worry, the presidential system will come, it'll all be over. Well, we're asking: you're actually implementing an actual presidential system, despite the Constitution. Mr. President, since today when Mr. Erdoğan was elected President in 2014 -- especially today -- especially after July 15th, after the State of Emergency has been declared, you are already implementing an actual presidential system. Although not related to the State of Emergency, you've already made numerous arrangements, my dear friends, in accordance with the laws of the law, by shutting down the Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has already been largely disabled. So, I'm asking you now, and the citizen asks, if the presidential system comes, if it's said yes, you're going to do what you can't do today, what you're doing or what you're not going to do, what Turkey's economy will improve? There's nothing that's been explained about it so far. Instead, a campaign began by stretching society, polarizing citizens who would say no, linking them to terrorism. My dear friends, what Mr. President said when he started campaigning was that those who said no were next to July 15th. The ministers of this government were able to say, "Yes, yes, or no, if there is a threat to our people, there will be no more terror." You're doing it wrong, my dear friends. In fact, the people who are going to vote know that the actual situation that's been going on for the past two years will become official if it does, but you don't want people to know about it. My dear friends, I've been doing politics for a long time, and when I first came to this Grand National Assembly of Turkey, politicians wouldn't accuse each other of lying on these platforms. It's not true, it's not true. We lie, my dear friends, you lie, the government lies, and we continue to lie. Now, you're saying that those who vote no, those who say no, are near July 15th. It's not that, my dear friends, the 15th of July is actually your work, this congregation is your work. This congregation moved Turkey to 15 July because of your mistakes, and all of this happened. Look, after that happened, you wanted the State of Emergency, the State of Emergency was declared, and you run Turkey with the State of Emergency. Over 100,000 people have been discharged, over 30,000 people are currently under arrest, but as the Prime Minister stated yesterday, which is dry and which is age unknown. And most importantly, my dear friends, this July 15th has no political foot. This political foot here is my dear friends, these political feet in the Council of Ministers, in the municipalities. July 15th is actually you, which means it's you, July 15th.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0076par0082	CHP, CHP.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0075par0083	If the July 15 investigations don't come to a political stand, if they don't come to the AKP, everything you do will be a lie.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0077par0086	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0078par0087	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0077par0088	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0079par0089	Don't lie. You said it, you said it yourself.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0080par0090	It's you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0079par0091	You're conflicted.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0081par0092	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0080par0093	How many are there, come and tell me.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0082par0094	Mr. Bachelor...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0080par0095	How many are there, come and tell me.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0083par0096	You did what you judged, Congressman.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0080par0097	Come here, how many of your deputies have talked to...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0084par0098	Mr. Bachelor...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0080par0099	...how many of your ministers have spoken to them...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0084par0100	Mr. Bachelor, your time is up, please...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0080par0101	...how many of your mayors have distributed the land to them, come and tell them here.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0085par0102	You did what you judged.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0084par0103	Mr. Bachelor, would you please take your seat?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0080par0104	I'm not lying, I'm telling the truth, and it bothers you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0084par0106	Mr. Mush, I'm listening.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0086par0107	Mr. President, we don't accept any of the claims Mr. Bacheloroglu has made to us. He may be lying, but we're not. I have to state here that everything done in Turkey is done within legitimate and constitutional limits. He can go out and make his claims, and he can tell people about it. In the end, it's the people who make the decision. He's got no hands. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0084par0110	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0087par0111	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0084par0112	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0088par0113	Deputy Chief of the Group, Mr. Pine?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0084par0114	He's got power of attorney.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0089par0115	Mr. Vice President, our speaker, Mr. Bachelor, has publicly and publicly accused Mr. Bachelor of lying.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0084par0116	But Bachelor said, "You're lying to them."
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0089par0117	Mr. President, he may disagree, he may say so, but it is no one's place to accuse a member of the Turkish National Assembly of perjury of our friend.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0084par0118	Mr. Pine, in the same way, you are lying to the Justice and Development Party Group, a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and a member of your group. It's mutual, please.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0090par0119	He said, "He's lying."
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0091par0120	I didn't accuse a person.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0092par0121	Mr. President, this is a direct conversation aimed at our congressman. Please, we'd like a word from the tease.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0093par0122	I can't promise you because of the bullying, because there have been similar accusations.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0091par0123	One person has not been charged, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0094par0124	He said, "The government."
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0095par0125	Mr. President, I don't think you should...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0096par0126	He told me himself that we were lying.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0097par0127	If he was accused as a group, the group responded as acting president, Mr. Bacheloroglu.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0095par0128	Mr. President, he has openly accused our congressman of lying, how could you...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0096par0129	Mr. President, is Musa Pine the vice president of the group? Can't Mr. Bachelor defend his rights?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0097par0130	In the same way, you are lying to the Justice and Development Party Group.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0095par0131	He could have, he could have said that. Mr. President, he may disagree with your ideas, disagree with your opinions, go out there and talk, but he can't accuse our congressman of lying. As Acting Speaker, you can't tolerate this.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0097par0132	Mr. Pine, I may not agree with you either, but you lied, you're a liar. He said, please.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0098par0133	I didn't say anything about lying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0097par0134	You did.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0098par0135	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0099par0136	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0100par0137	You're lying. He said.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0101par0138	I'll take a look at the reports, and if not, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0102par0139	Mr. President, Mr. Bacheloroglu himself said you're lying.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0101par0140	Okay, Mr. Mush, I'll take a look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0102par0141	So I said, "He can say it himself, we don't say it."
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0101par0142	Okay, I'll take a look at the reports, make an evaluation. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Malatya MP Öznur Çuk will speak. Here you go, Mr. Çurk.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0103par0146	Mr. President, I salute our esteemed MPs and our beloved nation, who are watching us on the screen. I have made a pledge to speak on behalf of my group on the Law Proposal to Change Some Laws by the Law of IRS Act, and I salute the High Assembly. Dear friends, we've just been told the truth and the truth and the lies. I'm going to talk a little bit about Turkey before 2002, and then everyone will probably see a lot more clearly what lies they're facing. According to our constitution, the Republic of Turkey is a democratic, secular, social law state. The declaration of the social state was entered into our Constitution in 1961, and the declaration of the social state from 1961 to today has been written into our Constitution, but until 2002 it was never read. When? After November 3, 2002, it was never a matter of discussing the social state until the AK PARTY came to power. He was weakened by populist approaches, baseless promises like super-retired, rotten SEC hospitals, and unfortunately, bad management.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0104par0150	In the circumstances of that day, they were the most luxurious buildings. It's like you were born in a country without a doctor.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0103par0151	When you looked at the old Turkey before 2002, our people had suffered, held hostage in hospital queues; our elderly people died from their pension tails, and ambulances arrived hours later; financial and administratively unsustainable, and there was a bankrupt social security budget.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0104par0152	Did you live in another country then?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0103par0153	You remember those places, I'll be there in a minute, don't worry. There was a corrupt green card system; there was a Turkey where disabled people, elderly people were confined to homes; it was impossible to talk about rights, rights, and rights of our young. In summation, Turkey never had a sense of social state.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0105par0155	Now they're waiting for a line at home, at home, five months from now...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0103par0156	As of 2002, under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we have begun to build the social state and have taken important steps so far with social policies that we have implemented.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0106par0158	I suppose the rights to women came after 2002?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0103par0159	Do you remember -- the lawmakers who just brought up the lies -- take a good look at them -- this is a photograph of the old Turkey. This is the Okmeydanı SBK Hospital and the director general of the SEC at the time said: "If you build hospitals where there are workers, population growth...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0106par0160	Now go, in the same case, there are 400 people in the E.R.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0107par0161	Now it's the same, the same.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0108par0162	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Dear Drift...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0109par0164	Guys, calm down!
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0108par0165	Mr. Çurk, I'd like a moment of your time. Congressmans, this is an MP speaking, shouldn't you be listening to this?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0110par0167	They can't even get in line for medicine because the SGK isn't paying for it.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0108par0168	If you have something to say, you want a word, if it's okay, I promise. Please, I can't hear what the congressman is saying.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0111par0169	Because he's not telling the truth.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0108par0170	I'm going to have to make an assessment of further demands. Please... Here you go, Mr. Çurk.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0112par0172	Friends, this is just one and the director general of the SEC at the time said: "There will be queues in hospitals where the population increases are high. This will be the case if you build hospitals where there are workers. You can watch the SEC General Director, if you want to watch his programs on the Internet with the ATV with the Battle Moon.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0113par0173	When was the last time you went to the E.R.?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0112par0174	I'm not telling you who it is, you can take it.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0113par0176	When was the last time you went to the E.R.?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0114par0177	None taken, none taken, none taken.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0112par0178	Our citizens with green cards, who could not go to private hospitals, public hospitals, university hospitals in the former Turkey, were in the middle. When we look back on social security, friends, we had 65 million people that day, and among 65 million people in social security, our people were only 45 million, and 20 million of our citizens were unable to benefit from the social security system. They put our citizens with green cards here, and they couldn't be treated, let alone hospital, private hospital, university hospital.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0115par0179	You made students of the university a member of the SGK.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0112par0180	I'm a pharmacist, one of the people who lived through that period.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0116par0181	What are the pharmacists doing today?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0112par0182	Social security was only 69, my friends.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0117par0183	College hospitals charge $100 a night for bed money, bed money.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0112par0184	Don't worry, I'll be there.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0118par0185	You made students of the university a member of the SGK.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0117par0186	I'll give you the names of the people, pay for the beds.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0112par0187	Friends, now, the facts we've come to, and this is the real Turkey.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0117par0188	You get bed money from 18-year-olds, I'll give you a name, pay for the bed.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0112par0189	Friends, our population has now reached 80 million, and we've taken 97.5 percent of the population of 80 million into social security.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0119par0190	And 12 percent unemployed, 12 percent unemployed, how does that work?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0112par0191	We're taking 97% of it, and we're doing everything we can to make sure that not one of our citizens stays out.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0120par0193	You bought it with money, with money.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0119par0194	There are 12 percent unemployed and 97 percent insured.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0121par0195	Bravo, Mr. President, you tell us, tell people, people know.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0120par0196	They can't get a physical without paying for the bed.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0122par0197	Look, guys, this is the proportions of our people who are now covered by social security in Turkey. Yes, we have 21.5 million active employees as active employees, 12 million pensioners, 35 million that we're obliged to look at.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0123par0198	Unemployed?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0122par0199	Know that our total 68 million citizens are covered by social security.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0123par0200	How many without a job?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0124par0201	Why do you keep asking for forgiveness, all the time?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0122par0202	We have 11 million citizens under general health insurance, and for that, we have lifted up the fallen green card system and declared general health insurance.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0125par0204	How many unemployed are there?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0124par0205	What's the unemployment rate, unemployment? Tell me about unemployment.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0122par0206	Friends, with general health insurance, right now, we're investing the premiums for our 7.4 million citizens, whose income is under 590 TL, to go to college from private hospital to benefit from general health insurance. We're investing the premiums for 7.4 million citizens to benefit from general health insurance. Today's legislation concerns 2.7 million citizens right here. With this law that directly concerns our citizens, we'll provide them with general health insurance and services from the hospitals they want. We wanted income in the general health insurance we'd made, and now we're putting the premiums on our citizens who are now above 590 TL; 53.9; after that, 2.7 million of our citizens will go to the hospital they want to pay 54 TL, and 71, $213, 426 TL, will not pay the premium they want.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0124par0208	He who has $10,000 will pay $54, and he who has no income and he who has $10,000.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0126par0209	It's not like that. Tell me the truth.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0124par0210	That's right.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0127par0211	Friends, that's the idea of being a social government, not to keep patients waiting in hospital lines.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0128par0212	He doesn't take social welfare money, he doesn't take a contribution from his citizen, he doesn't take a share from the pharmacy, he doesn't take a bed.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0127par0213	Friends, the investments that we're currently making in health have increased seven times, and we've increased the budget of our hospitals, our Ministry of Health, 111 billion.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0129par0214	You make luxury hotels, hotels without doctors.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0127par0215	Friends, after the previous Okmeydan, this is the truth, this is the truth, this is the picture of Turkey that we came from the tail of the hospital.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0130par0217	How many paramedic deficits are there?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0127par0218	Dear friends, these are the reforms we've done in social security, and we'll continue to do so.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0130par0219	When was the last time you went to the E.R.? I went to the E.R. four days ago.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0127par0220	In today's law, we make very important arrangements for our tradesmen.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0131par0221	No ICU, no ICU.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0127par0222	In these arrangements that we've made, from day one, the support we've given them through life-water and loan bail co-ops has gone up to 19 billion, and we're subsidizing their interest. We're subsidies of 1.3 million from the budget.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0132par0223	Why don't you tell the Turkish citizens what you gave to the Syrians.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0127par0224	But there was one thing that was true in ancient Turkey, do you remember this photograph, the time the shopkeeper threw the safe in front of the Prime Minister? And from that day forward, from old Turkey...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0133par0225	It's worse now, shoplifter, worse.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0134par0226	Worse, worse; there's no cash register left.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0127par0227	There's no more cash registers, you're telling the truth.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0134par0228	There's no cash register to throw away.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0127par0229	And the Prime Minister was walking away after the cash register this shopkeeper threw away. We're listening to all the problems of the tradesman, you guys, don't worry, we're treating all kinds of problems.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0135par0231	You pay for the guy who closes his shop.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0136par0232	You don't give the money, the shopkeeper gives the bonus.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0127par0233	And we're installing the Ark of Relations. And with the fund that we have established, we will pay the unemployment salary from eight months to ten months, as soon as our problem -- our BUG-KUR merchants -- are out of work with a fund that we're going to raise on all our trades. And with the bonus they're only going to pay 2 percent, we're going to cover unemployment. We continue to support our tradesman.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0137par0234	Time's up, time's up.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0138par0235	Don't say the chest, Mr. President, they're afraid of the chest, they've lost 11 elections, don't say we think so.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0127par0236	And with the idea of being a social government, we've raised our benefits from 1.6 billion to 45 billion, dear friends, that's the idea of being a social state. And in the United Nations Human Development Index, we've gone from the human level of medium development to the human level of higher development. What did this happen, guys? It happened with a strong economy, with strong social policies. And for strong Turkey, we say, for one nation, for one flag, for one country, our decision is yes.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0139par0240	For one man...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0127par0241	We will continue the presidential government system until the end, and know that all of this work is for our nation.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0140par0242	Yes, bravo, Mr. President! Let them see, let them see!
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0127par0243	This presidential government system...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0141par0244	Yeah, the only guy...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0142par0245	Azerbaijana, Azerbaijana...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0143par0246	Yes, of course, yes.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0144par0247	Of course we do. We do. From now on, we say yes to everyone. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] For our disabled brothers, of course. We say yes, of course. We say yes. We say yes to the end. We say yes to the end, we say yes to the heart. We say yes to the heart. I wish our nation good luck and good luck, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0145par0252	Thank you, Mr. Çurk.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0146par0253	Mr. President, they're afraid of the chest too, the trunk.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0147par0254	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0145par0255	Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0147par0256	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Çuk, I won't say it, but as you know, he directly implied our President of the Republican People's Party. So, Mr. President, I don't agree with the way a congressman friend of ours is going to speak so carelessly, so carelessly, in a manner of speaking. There's a direct taunt against Mr. President here, and we'd like a word on that.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0145par0257	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0147par0258	Bulent Kuşoglu...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0145par0259	Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0148par0263	Thank you. I don't know why Mr. Çurk gave such a speech.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0149par0265	We don't get it either!
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0148par0266	I mean, 20 years ago, 25 years ago, I don't know why he compared today to today. At that time, I was Assistant Director of Social Insurance and a member of the Governing Body. When we began our mission, with Mr. President, Turkey didn't even know what social security was, there was no consciousness, there were great problems; we fought as bureaucrats. Look, the politicians still blame the bureaucrats of that day, not the politicians of that day, but we put up a fight like that. (CHEERING) I'm really proud of it, I'm proud of it. We have made significant contributions to Turkish social security as bureaucrats. We've put the politicians aside, and we've done independent, really more important work than politicians. In comparison to today, the deficit of the Social Insurance Institution, which is below 1 per cent of the GDP, according to the GDP, is today at the top of the 1 per cent deficit, and look at the state contribution, up to 5 per cent, is much higher. This year, 116 billion euros will be a state contribution for 2017. This is very much above the black hole that was said in those days, five times as clear, five times higher. For him, to bring up such an issue... in fact, the weakest part of AKP power is social security, social security. Look, benefits are separate. You don't know, social benefits are separate, social security, social security. We know that you've done some work on social benefits, but Mr. Charik has expressed social security, not them, the side they've failed to do, and he's made a huge mistake. And on welfare, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy has been under budget for the past two years. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yeah, he's getting nervous, and they're going backwards, and they need to be known. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0150par0275	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0151par0276	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0148par0277	I didn't make a move, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0150par0278	Let me judge him. Yes, Mr. Yusuf Selahattin Beyribey will speak on behalf of himself. Here you go, Mr. Beyribey.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0152par0285	Mr. President, I'd like to express my opinion on the Law of the Law on the Amendment to some Laws under the Law of IRS Act No. 456. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the 24th article. From the 1990s, the debt of our farmers to farm loan co-ops and the Agriculture Bank has caused our villagers a great deal of trouble. Whereas our peasants are the main elements of this country, the source of production, the owner of the land, in other words the real owners of the land; I feel that we should strive to keep them there, to make their production easier, to make their lives easier for them. Starting from the 1990s, in 2002, many people were victims of the end of the inclusion of agricultural loan co-ops, which later ended in 2002. There was a law for this in 2017; a law was passed in order to return the guarantor, which we call "municipal guarantor" to individuals. They paid their debts because it was due to a period of -- it was until the end of 2007 -- and then those who didn't apply for the incumbent guarantor, because it was a co-signor, so the land, the land, the land, everything that was available to them, and even if they paid off the debt, they didn't pay off their debts because of other debts, and because of their own debt. Now, from that day until now, only my knowledge is in Kars, Kars central and villages -- we only have 3,000 victims like this at the center -- and if we gather the villages together with the villages, that number is about 7,000. This is not only in Kars. This is in Bolu. This is in Erzurum. This is in Sivas. This is in everyone who does farming in Turkey. Even if the farmers paid their own debts, they were victimized by their own personal debt. Now, many farmers can't own the property, and if they own the property, they'll be repossessed immediately. AK PARTY has always been there for its farmer. And today, because he's with his farmer, I want to thank our Prime Minister again for our citizens who can't go and apply in time, who are victims and who can't pay their debts. I want to thank our group president, our commissioner, our minister, and everyone who's worked on this matter separately. I would also like to thank all of our MPs and Parliament for supporting us with their votes. Really, really important, we'll be fingering a bleeding wound, and we'll be treating it. I believe that those who want to pay their debt -- I want to stress the history in particular -- by the end of 2017 -- I am paying my debt, I am leaving as a private guarantor.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0153par0290	If he finds the money.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0152par0291	There's no problem with his money, so you're welcome. The villagers' goods are worth money, the cow is worth money -- I'm a farmer, I'm a peasant boy -- money. [Cheers and applause from CHP rows!] And thank you for confirming it. The goods he produces are worth a lot of money. I know how peasants live, how they should live.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0153par0293	Why do villages come?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0152par0294	We're fighting for them. The AK PARTY is making their way, building their schools, providing health care, providing all kinds of services, and we will continue to give them.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0154par0295	You're lying... no, no, wrong... sorry, correcting, wrong...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0152par0296	My goal is to let the peasant produce, and his production remain in his village. Their children should be trained, of course, but in production, their contribution is the best. The peasant is very important. The peasant would die for three square feet of land. So, while I was saying what I'm saying, it's the main element of this country, it's the master of this land, that's why.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0155par0297	Take it, take it, take it, take it, take it, take it, take it, take it,
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0152par0298	I believe we must always take care of our peasants. I believe our party and all the groups in the House have taken care of the villagers. I want to thank each and every one of you for listening to me patiently. This is the 24th article... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wanted to share my excitement with you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0156par0304	Thank you, Mr. Beyribey. On behalf of the person, the Istanbul MP, Mr. Gülay Basci, will speak for the last time. All the speakers are coming to the stand today with visuals, but unfortunately, we can't see any of them.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0157par0307	There's so much good stuff.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0156par0308	Here you go, Mr. Backup.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0158par0310	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the High Council with respect and love. Now, with this bag of legislation, when strangers buy real estate, the VAT is being removed and the contractors get all sorts of privileges, I'm going to show you the dirty relationship wheel between a mayor and a contractor. This document is a very important document, a document that has been passed as a black stain on Turkish political history. This document is the document of a bribe, a confession, a fraud. (Applause from CHP rows) A businessman, a contractor, builds a building in Maslak, stops construction for seven years, then gets three plots taken around the Istanbul Mayor's villa in Nice. Later, the construction plans and the necessary changes of these three plots are being made, and this place is being prepared for the mayor as a landscaping area. See also that the land at the front belongs to the Istanbul Metropolitan Mayor, and the land next door belongs to the mayor's wife. The mayor is signing a protocol with that businessman, and it's clearly written in the protocol, forcing millions of dollars to buy land around his house. There's a feud between them, and this businessman goes to the city and leaves a document that's full of confessions, bribery, immorality, that's unprecedented in the history of Turkish politics. I'm reading it clearly from the letter, and it says: "Will they not ask tomorrow? Why did you not give permission to build this building for seven years and seal it? Mr. President, after you bought the land near your house and all the other real estates, did you confirm the project??" We ask: "Why did you confirm this project?" How much did you get? How did these plots get you a runt? Did you also take money from this businessman in the open? First you stop construction, you condemn the businessman, you condemn the contractor... and by the way, construction is so weird, there's no sidewalk, there's 15 percent precedent, and there's a construction site over 190 thousand square meters. Mr. President said he was against vertical construction in Istanbul. He said there was no green area left in Istanbul. So we ask: who has allowed these vertical structures for the past 22 years? You didn't let him? Aren't these done in your power? Aren't you the one who pushed Istanbul into the lap of wild capitalism for the last 22 years? Aren't you the one who built these shopping malls and turned them into the shopping mall hell of Europe? We believe that these documents are very important and that honest, honest lawmakers from the AKP will follow the issue just as much as we do.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0159par0313	Where, ma'am?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0158par0314	The building of the calligraphy. Yes, finally, I would like to say that the Republican People's Party has always stood up to such events, bribes, unfair gains, and will always fight against those who make these unjust gains. I would also like to tell our valued citizens that it also puts forward the fact that we are facing an Istanbul Metropolitan Mayor who is open to any kind of offer. Besides, it's not only that, Mr. Mayor, but to turn his villa into a small palace... we all know your palace curiosity, we call it your palaces.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0160par0317	Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0158par0318	He's also making changes to his zoning plans to turn it into a palace. The locals are hearing about the change in zoning plans. When the mayor goes to inspect his villa, the people are leaving. He says you're going to make a change to yourself. He has to, and he's making another illegal case, he's changing plans on the rack, he's illegally changing plans on the suspension. This is where the word ends - a clear picture of bribery, corruption, fraud. Make sure we follow that. But, let's be clear, as an Istanbul lover, I would like to address my beloved citizens as a Turkish lover: Don't worry, we're about to destroy the rule of the Thieves, we're going to make another Turkey, another Istanbul, another living Istanbul, possible. I salute your grand delegation with my faith in it.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0161par0322	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0162par0323	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0163par0324	Watch the video of Muharrem Encel, see what it says there? Two hundred and fifty years can't be a power, he says.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0164par0325	We're talking about documents, we're full of empty talk.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0163par0326	Watch the video of Muharrem Encel.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0165par0327	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0166par0328	The preacher spoke in a colorful, high tone. I'm calling him right now, so he can get everything he's got to the D.A., make sure he doesn't waste any time.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0167par0329	We passed it on to the D.A., it's fine.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0168par0330	The statements here are a prosecutor's office, so let's get the D.A. moving.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0166par0331	Don't waste any time. We don't know what he's talking about. But in the past period, the mayor of Çankaya was saying, "I can't feed the cannibals." He'll show it to the mayor of Çankaya, or we don't have residences, and he'll show it to the residents.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0169par0332	Come to the swelling one, to the shish one! Come to Beşiktas!
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0170par0333	And there's no inflatable bill. I mean, no one uses the House's bill at 800,000 lira a month, thank God.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0171par0334	Mr. President, the vice president of the group, the mayor of Çankaya, who said it, must say it loud and clear.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0169par0335	It's swollen, Beşiktaş's full. Hossy-Basicstone fillers are leaving.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0171par0336	Therefore, our party is a direct hostility to the mayor, and it must be answered.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0172par0337	Ask your former president, the mayor of Çankaya.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0173par0338	He repeated a statement from the mayor of Çankaya, repeating a sentence he had said.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0171par0339	What did he say?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0172par0340	I can't feed the cannibals.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0171par0341	Who are those cannibals? Let him come out here and say it on the stand.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0172par0342	Ask your mayor of Çankaya about that. Who was it? He was your mayor of Çankaya.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0171par0343	The cannibals are impossible to find within the Republican People's Party, but everything is clear during the 15-year AKP government.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0174par0344	Mr. Pine, I can promise you, two minutes won't help.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0172par0345	Ask the former mayor of Çankaya, who says, "I can't feed the cannibals."
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0175par0346	What happened the other day in Sarıyer? What happened at Sariyer City Council? What happened at the Sariyer City Council two weeks ago?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0174par0347	But Mr. Mush is not his own opinion -- which I don't approve of, it's not something I approve of being talked about behind people who aren't here -- he repeated a statement by the mayor.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0176par0348	Where did he say it, when did he say it?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0177par0349	It's in the middle of the nation. They know where he's saying it.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0176par0350	Can you talk that much about someone who's not here? It's a shame.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0177par0351	I'm calling the deputy from here, have him report all the documents he has to the D.A.'s office immediately, press charges, immediately. He should go to court immediately.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0178par0352	I'm dealing with Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0176par0353	There's also teasing our congressman, Mr. Gulay Spary.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0179par0354	Mr. President, he's been picking on me, I promise.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0178par0355	I'm dealing with Mr. Pine. He has the power of attorney, so I'm gonna have to talk to him.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0180par0356	Or ask the Rezidentists, the Rezidentists.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0178par0357	There's no teasing your group because, as I said, he repeated a sentence a mayor had said.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0181par0358	It's about those who aren't here, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0180par0359	The lady told me about those who weren't here.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0178par0360	If the mayor didn't say such a thing, of course I can promise you an insult, but since it's a repeat sentence, I can't give you a say in the matter.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0181par0361	There's been an insult to our speaker, our congressman.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0180par0362	I didn't do the insult. The former mayors of Çankaya told me.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0178par0363	And he didn't insult the speaker, he just said very clearly: I'm asking him to hand over whatever documents he has.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0182par0364	There's been an open taunt, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0183par0365	He's got an open-and-shut case, so he's accusing me of lying.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0182par0366	There's no such document; it's open.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0184par0367	If he doesn't, we'll declare a mufter. He's gonna take them to the D.A.'s office.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0183par0368	He's accusing me of lying. Is that even possible?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0182par0369	Mr. President, I want a promise.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0185par0370	He didn't say liar, Mr. Pine. Look, let's figure it out. It's okay, it's as long as we talked for two minutes, but I'm having this conversation in order.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0186par0371	He called the mayor of Çankaya.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0185par0372	He didn't say liar, he said, "Let your documents be applied to the prosecutor's office. Let them give them to you."
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0187par0373	Right away, no time at all.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0188par0374	It's okay, don't pick on me.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0187par0375	I demand it.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0189par0376	Two: He repeated a sentence said by a mayor. What's with the teasing?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0190par0377	Mr. President, let me explain.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0191par0378	But, Mr. President, he accused me of an unrealistic conversation.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0190par0379	What's he got to do with it?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0191par0380	What's he got to do with it?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0192par0381	No, where is she?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0193par0382	He didn't say it was an unrealistic conversation, but we're not going to be able to figure it out. Come in for two minutes.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0192par0383	Give it to the prosecutor. He said.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0194par0384	I said a colorful speech, a fancy one.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0193par0385	I mean, if we listen to the speeches and make demands, you'll give us a chance to work comfortably. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0195par0389	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we do all our work with paperwork. Everything I'm talking about, everything we're talking about here is being asked to Mr. Istanbul Mayor in the City Council group, the Mayor agrees to it, and this goes into the transcripts. They're asking about those three plots.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0196par0390	Okay, if it's illegal, take it to the D.A.'s office right now, I'm waiting.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0195par0391	Give me a break. If you have something to say, go up on the stand and tell me, don't talk to me there.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0196par0392	I'll follow you, see if you've given it to me.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0195par0393	But that's in our hands...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0196par0394	I'll follow up with the D.A.'s office.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0195par0395	I'll follow you. You are the government, you will answer for this corruption, this bribe, the understanding of condemning Turkey to poverty and filthy theft.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0196par0396	If you don't give it to the D.A., I'll follow it. I'll see if you give it to me or not. You're giving it to the D.A.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0195par0397	You're the government. I'll be your stalker.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0196par0399	We're not judges.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0197par0400	Don't worry, the mayor you insulted and accused will give you to the court.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0195par0401	Yeah, now, this is the paperwork we have for the D.A.'s office...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0197par0402	You're making unlawful accusations here.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0195par0403	The Istanbul Metropolitan Assembly group has brought the matter to court and brought it to trial on what charge?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0197par0404	You're making unlawful accusations.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0195par0405	The abuse of the mandate of Article 257 of TCK is related to the corruption of zoning in Article 184, the failure of the public official to report the crime of Article 279, the necessary investigation into the perpetrators, the interference of Article 255, the trafficking of influence on Article 247, the embezzlement of Article 247. Our Metropolitan City Council has drawn up this petition, all of our city council members have signed it, and we're going to bring it to justice.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0198par0406	Now...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0195par0407	But what's really important is that the mentality that has ruled Turkey for fifteen years and Istanbul for twenty-two years has now said, "Stop this theft, bribery, irony."
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0199par0408	Speak also of the swelling one, and of the swelling one, and of the Besiktas one, and of the Sarıyer one, and of your own party.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0195par0409	I invite all honest AKP MPs and decent AKP ministers to follow up on the matter. You're the one who's going to solve this, and you're going to oversee the courts in that sense...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0200par0410	The banks didn't give the Istanbul City Hall a check card in 1994, banks.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0195par0411	... You're the ones who ordered the courts, you're the ones who're going to pay attention to them and prevent them.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0200par0412	He wouldn't give me a check card, his check card.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0195par0413	You won't talk nonsense, you'll come with papers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's a confession, it's a bribe, a bribe, a bribe.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0201par0417	Mr. Backup, thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0202par0418	Who didn't the banks give a check card to?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0203par0419	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0201par0420	I'm asking all lawmakers specifically: there may be any complaints, there may be any charges filed against the prosecutor's office, and unless a verdict is made from the court, please do not violate the rights of the members of this bench, no matter who it may be from, no matter which party it may be from. Please, no matter what party it's from, please don't continue the campaign to smear some of the people on this stand unless there's a verdict from the court.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0203par0421	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0201par0422	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0203par0423	What he's telling us here is theft, bribery, and so on, I'm returning statements to them.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0204par0424	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0203par0425	I'm going to say this once again, Behemehal, take this matter to the prosecution. Sir, they've filed a petition and they'll take it to the D.A.'s office immediately.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0205par0426	What's your business, sir? Why don't you go to the D.A.'s office?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0203par0427	You're a congressman.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0205par0428	I thought you were running Turkey!
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0206par0429	Mr. Back-up, please don't beat around the bush.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0205par0430	He's been talking to me all morning, why didn't you say please?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0207par0431	I'm not a judge, and I'm not a prosecutor.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0206par0432	I'm talking to Mr. Mush. I'm not listening to you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0205par0433	I'm not listening to you either. What the hell!
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0207par0434	Mr. President, I'm not a judge or a judge. If there's something illegal going on, they caught them themselves, it's so obvious, they're making a decision like that, so I'm calling the prosecution right now, and they're going to investigate.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0205par0435	Papers, sheets in the papers.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0207par0436	I'll tell you what else!
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0208par0437	Thank you. Look, I repeat, this is not a bench for violating the rights and laws of the people unless you have a ruling against them, and let's not use this bench as a tool in that sense, no matter who you are, no matter what party you are.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0209par0439	Mr. President, the man confesses, I gave him a letter, he says.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit02spe0208par0440	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0208par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal No. 456. The commission is here. The government is here. Now, on the second part of the proposal, there will be a question-and-answer procedure for 15 minutes. That's half the time for questions and half the time for answers. I'll start with the MPs who hacked into the system. Mr. Bektasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0210par0011	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With the laws imposed, regulations amendments, the COBI tradesmen are granted tax, insurance reduction exemptions, free allocation of treasury land, long-term refunds, interest-free loans. However, the relevant clauses of this arrangement are defined by a different type of tradesman, such as the regular payment of the tax, the insurance premium, and the non-exploration. The resources and conveniences provided are conditioned only for the well-working tradesmen. I don't know if they exist in other provinces of Turkey, but I don't think there's a single tradesman in my hometown, Giresun. Cemal is there, he'll tell the Minister. In the economic programmes that you applied, the majority of the tradesmen were victimised, especially from the loss of Turkish money in dollars and 15 per cent in the euro, and there was no more of them left. In Giresun, where 700 shopkeepers shut down in just one year, there are 33,000 executive files and 7,000 files ready to follow. Mr. Finance Minister, I ask you, do you have any thoughts about seeking a settlement based on at least one pardon or the ease of payment for the tradesmen in this situation? I hope so. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0211par0017	Mr. Sütüdağ...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0212par0018	Mr. President, our Minister of Agriculture isn't here, but as far as our Finance Minister is concerned, the oil premiums paid by the end of each year have not been paid until now. Even after the first two months of this year, what is the reason why the oil premiums still haven't been paid? When will the olive oil premiums be paid to the manufacturer? In addition, the price paid per hive to the honey maker in January of each year still hasn't been paid to the honey maker. Why don't you still pay these premiums? Why isn't the government paying off the farmers' hard work, resetting the yachters' taxes to turn the referendum into an opportunity? Is the sweat of farmers worth more than the salt water of the sea where strangers swim their yachts? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0213par0022	Thank you. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0214par0024	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Finance Minister is that, you know, our Turkish Armed Forces have been doing very important operations in Syria, and with a decree on a law, it was intended to pay compensation to those of our soldiers who were in Syria. Of course, in order for this payment to be made, the Council of Ministers must determine the procedures and basis of the payment. Where are these studies at? These members of the Turkish Armed Forces are wondering when this compensation will be paid. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0215par0027	Thank you. Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0216par0029	My question to the Minister is that the Shopkeeper's Bag is set up as a parallel fund to the Unemployment Insurance Fund. The unemployment benefit fund has been used to benefit more employers than workers. Therefore, does this process today mean creating an additional safe for the Entity Fund? There are also extremely troubling provisions in terms of benefits. Another question is: What is the reason why the Union of Traders and Artists of Turkey has not been accepted or why their views are not respected? When unemployment rates are so high today, will this be considered a contribution to closed-down events cause even greater damage? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0217par0032	Mr. Altay, are you in the system to ask questions?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0218par0033	Don't let me rape your friends, so I can ask you later.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0217par0035	Okay. As deputy president of the group, you know, I give you more priority. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0219par0038	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, we have thousands of young people who have won the KPS exam; thousands of young people who can't get the job, who can't get the job, who can't get the job, who can't get the job when one of our four young people is out of work, who's the head of Sumer Holdings, who's the head of their own institution, who's the head of the agency, who's the head of the agency, who's the doctors, who's putting the pressure of retirement pressure on all the staff, in the pool, is it true that they're putting their wife on the exception staff of Balikesir, who don't have a single-day service in public? If that's true, is that ethical? Isn't that cheating against the law? In the face of these events, if it's true, what kind of transaction are you going to do? Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0220par0041	Thank you. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0221par0043	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, mothers with SMA children can't take medicine for their children who melt before their eyes, and they suffer every day, e-mailing us every day, reaching us. Do you have any work on the solution to drug treatment for these children? Again, Mr. Çuk just said: "Here we have many people in the SGK. For example, a child under the age of 18 is lying in the University of Uludağ, but the bed money is being paid $100 per night, so all health care is almost money-wise. Again, for example, there is no intensive care unit in Bursa. They're trying to be in the nearest city, and they're being sent with the nearest one, because families are miserable because there's no room in intensive care. There's a lot of problems with health, and I can't really grow them, so...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0222par0048	Finally, Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0223par0049	Thank you, Mr. President. The province of Niğde was also the centre of John and Nevşehir and Aksaray, who had been bannered in the Ottoman period in Central Anatolia. From the early settlements of Central Anatolia, Niğde is also an important agricultural and livestock area, full of historical and cultural wealth. In 1984, the capital city was published in the public opinion that the Ministry of Interior would increase the number of 30 major cities to 51. The newly set assessment indicates that the population criteria required to become a major city will be reduced from 700,000 to 400,000. Among the new cities, the name of Niğde is not mentioned. Why is the province of Niğde not taken into consideration? The use of such an application outside Niğde (Niğde) of the surrounding provinces will make Nigde (Niğde) even more backward. Niğde has also been left behind because the European Union has not been accepted into the Rural Development Project, and has not been supported in the agricultural sense within the surrounding provinces. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0224par0052	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, your time is seven and a half minutes.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0225par0054	Mr. President, thank you. First, Mr. Bektasoglu asked a question, "Will it be easy to pay with regard to our professions?" Let me just say, you know, especially in the past year, in August, we made a legal arrangement, which allowed us to make an instalment in 36 months for our tax and insurance premium shop. Again, as of January, we've postponed payments made in this restructuring for four months until May. Also -- let me tell you again, it's a very good decision for our tradesman -- and we've postponed insurance payments in January, February and March for nine months without interest.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0226par0056	Would you postpone it if it weren't for the referendum, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0225par0057	How?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0226par0058	Would you have postponed it if it wasn't for the referendum on April 16th?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0225par0059	Yeah. What does it have to do with the referendum?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0226par0060	Then how did it happen?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0227par0062	Let's not talk mutually, please.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0225par0063	No, don't applaud, I think it's a very strange question. I mean, about the economy...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0226par0064	It's not that weird, it's a very valid question.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0225par0065	Look, if you read everything from the referendum front, you're in for a big mistake. We have since August 2016...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0226par0066	It's not us, it's the voters.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0228par0067	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0225par0068	... After a while, we've made a lot of decisions to create life in the economy, to stimulate demand from one side, to bring financial ease to our businesses. I mean, we did this arrangement for the same arrangement for our tradesman. So, please, we're going to have to make arrangements here... That never occurred to us, let me express it specifically.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0226par0069	I wish you hadn't rejected our research proposals.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0228par0070	Mr. Engin, please do not interfere. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0229par0072	Again, to our business, you know, we've brought in a three-year interest-free loan from COSGEB to $50,000. So, Mr. Bektasoglu, I assume you've been following -- hopefully we'll be able to contribute to our tradesman's financial ease, financial ease, and a little bit more relief as of this period, and we'll continue to do so, thank you. Mr. Üstüdağ, there's no detailed information on the premiums for this oil bonus and the production of honey, so if you'll excuse me, I'll let you know when I get it from my friends. But we're really paying for our farmers' sweat. So, in 2017, I'm looking at the agricultural support budget, and we're making these payments to our 18 billion-dollar farmers, people who make different productions with different names. Well done, so our farmer really deserves all of this. The last, you know, we removed the VAT in the bait, in the fertilizer. The last time we redesigned our farmers' debts was in this package again. Together, with your support, I hope we will work well together to increase the prosperity of our farmers. Mr. Akçay, if you'll excuse me, I'm asking from the Ministry of National Defense that this is a sensitive issue, and we care very much about the struggle there, and we're doing the necessary work for the safety of our country, and we're doing the work for the staff that operates there, and the friends have sent me a note saying: The procedure and the fundamentals for paying compensation for military personnel in Syria are being sent to the Prime Minister at the moment by our Ministry; we're following it, as well as soon as possible. And by the way, thank you, and that information came to me, and we shared it. Mr. Sarıhan, they've made an assessment of the unemployment fund and the Ahilik Fund. So the main reason for the unemployment benefit fund, of course, is to create an insurance system for this period in case our employees are unemployed in any way. Likewise, the aim of the Abyssinic Fund was to provide income support for the businesses that closed down the business for any reason. So let me make it very clear here that while all this Ahilik Fund work is being done, there have been some very good consultations with our trade organisations, particularly the Business Artists' Association, and they've exchanged opinions with themselves, and they've contributed to the creation of the bill. I thank them. There's a real demand here for even the name of our tradesmen's rooms, a contribution to the creation of the bill, and it's been done beautifully. Here, there's a good day, there's a bad day, there's a bad day, there's a certain demand of our tradesman to set up an insurance system like this, and that's how we do it. Mr. Tanal, they've expressed an appointment near a public official in Sumer Holdings. I'm familiar with the appointments here, and I have approval. I don't know where he was assigned at first, but I've learned about this person's transfer to another institution. The statements I've been given here are both information that there's a need for the person in the first assignment and the appointment. We've given that approval by honoring it. But how true it is that we all have to weigh on our consciences, which we have to express. Mr. Kayishoglu has expressed some concerns about the presentation of medicines and health care in Bursa's privacy, but we need to take a look at them one by one. Normally, health is at the top of the areas where we're really good at service as a government. So perhaps we should consider the individual events...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0230par0078	That's not an isolated statement, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0229par0079	Or check that information again. If you share that information with us...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0231par0080	Mr. Secretary, go to the emergency room at one o'clock at night, take a look at the situation.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0229par0081	No, no, you...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0231par0082	Not as a minister.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0229par0083	Every time I go to Bayburt, I go to the emergency room, and I say: "Come, you can tell from the emergency room whether a hospital is good or not." They know that, and I always stop by the emergency room when I go to Bayburt. But I'm asking you, there's nothing going on here, so... it's our job as government to go through these setbacks, but in the health care system, we have access to...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0232par0085	Let's go live one day, Mr. Secretary. Let's get your phone.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0233par0086	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0229par0087	Thank you. So in the presentation of health care and access to medicine, there really have been extraordinary developments in the last 14 years, and our citizen can also take his medicine from the pharmacy and find it in the hospital.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0234par0089	The drugs have been removed from the SGK.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0229par0090	At the point of bed, the highly qualified hospitals have been in service at this time, but please, please, let me share it with our Minister of Health, and if you've come across any incidents, we'll go to him. We have beautiful hospitals, we have beautiful doctors, our nurses are doing great service. I thank them, by the way, and thank them. As for Niğde, our deputy for the city's municipalities spoke of an estimate or a node. I don't have that kind of information. So even if a study is being conducted, as a government, we are already making the necessary statements when these studies are concluded. Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0235par0093	Thank you. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0236par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, you know, the referendum calendar has begun. A few moments ago, people from Istanbul are calling from Ataşehir. When I was transferring my own voter registration, I saw it in Littlechekmece, there's a lot of concentration in the population managers. Of course, population managers, managers, employees, they work with great sacrifice, there's no hesitation, but there's a big squeeze, a pile-up. And since the YSK can't change the calendar, I mean, maybe a shift could be a night shift. Now, a citizen called, saying to me, "We're processing 300 people a day, so come at five in the morning, get in line, get a receipt." The citizen agrees with him, but it's obvious that this collapse will not be solved. Do you know if you're saving any money on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0237par0099	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0238par0100	Now, you know we're changing ID cards. As a government, we give out new identity cards instead of old population wallets, and our citizens are doing a really intense application to get these new identity cards. So let me just say that this has nothing to do with the referendum process. Here our Home Secretary has requested additional personnel, especially in the face of this increasing demand, and as the Finance Ministry, we have decided that in the face of this growing demand, our Home Secretary -- if I remember correctly -- about 1,500 contract personnel. Second: Again, the need for our current staff here to work overtime was, of course, due to intense demand. We also conducted a Council of Ministers decision-making study to ensure that our employees work overtime. The last time they were here, they asked to receive services in order to improve quality in the service presentation and speed up the service presentation, and I did what was necessary as the Ministry of Interior and on that matter. So what you're saying is true, there's really a lot of intensity. Our Home Secretary, we are all working really hard to meet the demand for this, but we also know that there are problems.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0239par0104	Mr. President, with all due respect...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0240par0105	Don't mention it. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0239par0107	So I think this needs to be done: the population manager's office has to take three days off to renew the birth certificate, so the old one has to work and process the voters' records. Minister, I commend you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0241par0108	Yes, I'll report it to the Home Secretary's information.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0240par0109	Yes, I agree with what Mr. Altay said. Because both transactions have been mixed together, there is also concern that the former population papers will not be voted on. If there's any explanation for these matters, Mr. Secretary, I think we'll come to some sort of clarity. On the second part...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0242par0111	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement based on 60.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0240par0112	Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0242par0115	Mr. President, thank you very much. I felt a need for an explanation because the issue is very important: As you mentioned earlier, the process of changing the identity cards of the Republic of Turkey has begun, and it's going on now, and there's a density in our population managers. However, it has just been expressed that our citizens, who are former population papers, are having second thoughts about not voting in this public vote, which is absolutely not true. In this sense: The article on Basic Decisions of Elections 298 and the Law on Voter Logs states which identity documents can vote for citizens when voting for elections and the public vote, which has been made clear in the scope of the Supreme Election Board. Only here should be discussed: with documents such as the identity card, driver's license, marriage number of the Republic of Turkey, our citizens can demonstrate their will in the vote. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0243par0118	Thank you. So let's say that we're going to be able to vote here once again with old population papers with TC ID numbers on them. Yes, the talks on chapter two are complete. Now, after I've done the motion procedures on those substances, which are in the second section, I'm going to submit them to your separate votes. Congressmans, there are three motions in Article 12: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the Law Proposal No. 456 is changed in the form of the statement passed in Article 12 of the framework. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu İsmail Faruk Aksu Desire Erdem Kamil Aydın Muharrem Varlı Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Mustafa Mit Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 12 of the Law Proposal to the Amendment in some Laws. With all due respect. Bulent Kuşoğlu Utku Çakırözer Ancient Durmaz Tule Karbük Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Zechariah Şımel ADDDE 12 - 31/5/2006 added the "Esnaf Bag of Physics" (e) to the first joke (e) of Article 60 of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510 (i.e. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 12 of Law Proposal No. 456 be removed from the proposal text. Ahmet Yıldırım Garo Paylan İmam Taşçıer Osman Baydemir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Sibel Yiğitalp Does the commission agree with the final motion read?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0244par0151	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0243par0152	Government?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0245par0153	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0243par0154	Şanlıurfa MP Osman Baydemir will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0246par0157	Thank you. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, why is there a legislature in modern societies, in civilizations, and why is there a legislature? If you ask me, first of all, these activities are carried out to ensure human honor, human dignity because all the values that make a human being are one, they can't be handled separately. Allow me to draw your attention to the 1978 years. I was a kid in elementary school. In the village of Sheikhkent, where I was born and grew up, the gendarmes conducted an operation; intelligence has been taken, weapons in the village. All the people of the village were gathered together in the village square, which we called the town square. Women and children have been separated from one side, men have been separated from another, and for hours, in front of women and children, in front of all of us, our fathers, our grandparents, tortures, inhumane treatments that were unthinkable. What's the point? To take possession of a weapon that exists in the village. There was a time junta, and after the junta, this practice in the Kurdistan villages didn't change. By the time it came to pass, the 1990s took place, and 4,000 villages, and our settlements were burned down; these practices have not changed. In June 2015, another coup took place when the people's will was unknown; cities, towns were destroyed. The same practice is now being implemented in three villages of Nusaybin, the same practice of the 1970s. For exactly thirteen days, a village has been blockaded, no entrances, no exits, one intelligence based on knowledge, and every living creature living in the village is being persecuted. Charges of execution, execution without trial, claims of severe torture. In all sincerity, it's not the words of my tongue, it's the human honor, it's the hurtful practices of his dignity, and their cries, their screams, they come to our ears. For 13 days, human rights committees have not been allowed to enter that village. Mr. President, you just said you didn't see these when my predecessors showed me photos. If you'll excuse me, Mr. President, you go first. This photo is a photograph of Abdi Aykut, which is the village of Herabe Bava in Koruzköy. Now, I ask you, what intelligence, what information, what reason, whatever, can justify the vileness of torture that the human family considers a crime? The owners of this app -- very clearly and clearly -- are low. Wherever in this world, no law, no order, no order, no right to torture another human being. No order, no regime, will justify what was done in Gaza. What is done in Gaza is done today in Nusaybin. I myself have been to the Masjid Aksa, and I have felt that spirituality. Today's application to the Masjidi Aksa is the same practice in Herabe Bava. Now, I'm not saying you all have a conscience because I'm afraid there's no conscience anymore. I'm against torture, I'm against persecution. I want a deputy from the AKP Group, I want a deputy from the CHP Group, I want a deputy from the MHP Group. Come, let us go to Nusaybin this evening, and go to Herabe Resh village tomorrow morning. Let's say to the citizens there, what happened here? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If it's in accordance with the law, let's go out and tell the public it's a lie. If there's lawlessness, let's all get caught up with those who commit it.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0247par0170	Thank you, Mr. Baydemir. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose that the 12th Amendment clause of the Law Proposal be changed in the following way, in accordance with the Law Act, which is held at 456 rankings, "the Court of Justice and Development Group Deputy Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş's Law on Taxes and Changes in Some Laws. With all due respect. Mehmet Bekkinoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends ADDDE 12-31/5/2006's Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510's first joke (e) has been added to the statement "Esnaf Bag of Harmony" following the declaration of "incontinence allowance" (e) on Article 60 of Article 60 (e). Does the commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0248par0179	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0247par0180	Government?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0249par0181	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0247par0182	İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0250par0185	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. I took the lying thing off, but the Minister isn't telling the truth. That's not a crime, is it? Look, here's the statement from Secretary General Naci Sulkalar of the Union of Traders and Artists of Turkey in the Plan and Budget Commission.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0251par0187	Mr. Bachelor, as a minister, do you believe I'm going to say anything?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0250par0188	This came up. On behalf of my confederation, I thank you, but...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0251par0189	Mr. Bachelor, do you believe what you're saying? Do you believe what you're saying?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0250par0190	I'm reading from the report. We weren't included in any way, we weren't asked for our opinion when the matter was being written.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0251par0191	Do you believe what he's saying? Do you believe what he's saying?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0252par0192	Mr. Secretary, answer me later.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0250par0193	The provisions of the funds were too much for us. I'm just passing them through the transcripts.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0251par0194	Do you believe that as a minister, I'm going to say nothing, and I'm going to say nothing?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0252par0195	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0250par0196	O my dear friends, you have made a habit of saying, "When you are told something wrong, it is the wrong of others or the wrong of others, or the way you fabricate it." This is a very sad situation, my dear friends. Here's the Justice and Development Party spokesman, who referred years ago, to the cash register. Yes, there was an economic crisis at the time, and people used their right to protest, came up ahead of the prime minister's office, and threw away the cash register. You have completely eliminated freedom of thought and expression. You've been banning people from making press statements for months. That's one of the differences between that day and today, but not only that, there are many differences. My dear friends, as with the tradesmen, as with the unemployment fund, are being given a relief, and the unemployed, bankrupt tradesmen will be paid $700, if they're doing what they're doing. You come first, you answer for an unemployment fund here. At the unemployment fund, $116 billion -- I don't know the exact number -- because the numbers are constantly changing -- money has been collected, so far only $11 billion has been paid to the unemployed. How is this an unemployment fund, my dear friends? The trade fund you set up will be no different. You're constantly comparing 2002 to 2016. I'll do a comparison. Here are the figures: 242.7 billion central management debt stock in 2002; 751.8 billion euros in 2016; $41 billion in private sector foreign loan debt in 2002; $293 billion in 2016; $12 billion in private sector financial companies; $145 billion in 2002; $138 billion in real sector debt in 2002; $138 billion in banks and factoring companies' loans in 2002; $13 billion in private sector financial loans; 1 trillion in 2002; 1 trillion in foreign companies' foreign companies' foreign debt in 2016; $125 billion in 2016, $31 billion in banks's foreign debt. My dear friends, these numbers are your numbers. They ask you, you've used so much money, now you've got so much debt, you've got so much work to do, and they ask you, "If this is a cat, where's the meat, where's the cat, my dear friends?"
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0253par0201	Yeah, that's the liver.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0250par0202	Is it liver? Liver, whatever. Look, I just said something, my friends are pissed off, pissed off. You reported it and used it, and the MPs used it: "The protection of Kilicdaroğlu has been taken into custody. " A guard officer has indeed been taken into custody, then released. It was shamelessly headlined in the newspaper, and then the politicians shared it. So, I ask you, are there no one among you who tells you about the protection of Kılıçdaroğlu, who cares about the people you've been with for years? It bleeds their consciences. Look, the building was just a congregation, the top part was an organization, and that's when we were telling you. Those who are involved with this organization are among you the most. Why don't you get rid of these? Why don't you do one story? In the Justice and Development Party, there are these. I can even count the mayors, MPs, but it's not my job, it's your job. Why don't you count it? Why would the poor guy... he could be tied up, he could've done some help, but without making any indictments, he's been in there for months, you've seized his assets, his family's hungry, he's miserable. Well, I'm asking you: your vice president's brother, his brother, whatever he was, was caught as a number. What did you do to your vice president? What are you going to tell these people, what lies are you going to tell them? I've told you again. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0254par0207	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "bendine" mentioned in Article 12 of the current Law Proposal 456 shall be changed into "indulgence." Altruism (Istanbul) and its companions Does the commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0255par0214	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0254par0215	Government?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0256par0216	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0254par0217	İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0257par0220	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party on Article 12 of the Law Against the Amendment to some Laws. With regards to the Veteran Assembly and the beloved Turkish nation watching us at the beginning of their screens. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, again, we face a bag of laws. The bill includes changes in more than one legislation, which does not have links and has no different issues and aims. The proposal will structure farmers' agricultural loans, which are used by the Agriculture Bank and Agriculture Loan Cooperative, followed by 31/12/2016. The proposal is to restructure those who have not been paid, even though they have due due due to what TEDAS will receive due to the consumption of electricity. The offer will organise a tax reduction for taxpayers who are fit to pay taxes. However, the taxpayers will not benefit from the tax deduction, which is all tax-compatible. There will also be an inequality in that sense. As the National Movement Party, we have been expressing these issues for a long time, and we will continue to bring them in, and they are also part of our election statement. This arrangement, unfortunately, is inadequate, incomplete, and is also delayed. A general health insurance account of the grants from the Esnaf Ahjik Ark, which is envisioned to be established in Article 12 of the proposal I have been promised. A fund such as the unemployment fund, which the state will contribute to at a certain rate, will be established for the tradesman. There will be a chance that the shopkeeper, who is bankrupt or has to close down his business, will take advantage of it until he can improve his economic situation and start a new business. Deputies, the National Movement Party, have for many years worked on the establishment of a trade unemployment fund. He also expressed the issue of unemployment benefits for insured workers after they were unemployed, and an arrangement was made. But here, insurance workers who receive an unemployment pension, who lose their jobs after they've lost their jobs, of course, it's promising that they'll be connected to a fund, but we're actually supporting it, but what we need to talk about here, Mr. Secretary, is why we're in this particular situation, why we're out of business, why people don't pay their electric bills until they're out of work. Yesterday, on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party, I said: "Come, let's take concrete steps to revive tourism, to revive all tradesmen affected by terrorism again." Yes, with this bill, there will be a hopeful situation. People will think, "At least I've closed my business, and I'll get some support from there." But there will be trouble because some of them will not be able to take advantage of it again. There's a record pardon coming in, there's a record pardon coming in today... Mr. Finance Minister was here, and I said to him, "Look, there's gonna be a pardon on the record, but those who go to the banks are going to meet with this sentence: I'm sorry, we can't give you credit because even if you're in that way, you don't have any activity, you don't have any income to document it." Let's erase the distribution costs of those who pay the electricity bill on the third floor to ease the tradeshop for a while, and make it legal. Once again, Mr. Finance Minister was sitting here, and I said: I told you yesterday -- he's burning with the occupation money, and while we're at it in the morning, I wonder if he'll trouble us about it because we didn't come to the police in the evening and pay for our occupation. Please, come, let's take concrete steps on this matter together. Once again, let's make sure that the benefits of doing taxes are in their pockets. What's all this? Again, in the same way, the gas bill, the water bill... because the workplace needs to live. Imagine that the person who worked as an employer until then -- psychologically, he's such a heavy burden -- I'll go to the government's door and get a monthly salary from here. Because psychologically, there's no way to recover from it. What happens? In fact, in order for the tradesman to survive, steps must be taken until then to ensure that his businesses are not to be shut down. You know, the support that comes after closure, yes, of course, may be an ointment for the wound, but it's a harm to the country's economy, and it's not enough for the tradesman to relax. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0258par0233	Thank you, Your Grace. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 13: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the Law Proposal No. 456 is changed in the form of the following. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Mit İsmail Faruk Aksu Muharrem Varlı Kamil Aydın Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 13 of the Law Proposal for the Amendment in accordance with Article 13 of the Law Against Justice and Development Party Group Vice President Mustafa Elitaş's Tax Act and Changes in Some Laws. With all due respect. Utku Çakrözer Ancient Durmaz Tulip Ömer Fethi Gürer Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam The first joke of Article 61 of Law No. 13-5510 (d) was changed in the form of "worklessness or unemployment, or the Shoplifting Ark or the payment of unemployment" and the term "equivocal unemployment or the money of the Esnaf Ahlik ark." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 13 of the Law Proposal No. 456 be removed from the proposal text. Ahmet Yıldırım Garo Paylan İmam Taşçıer Sibel Yiğitalp Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Burcu Çelik Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0259par0262	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0258par0263	Government?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0260par0264	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0258par0265	Mr. Burcu Çelik will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0261par0268	Mr. President, we've told all of our MPs about a year ago about the massacres in Cizre, Sur, Nusaybin. We've called countless calls for power to prevent these massacres. On that day, this Parliament played deaf and dumb, and this silence caused hundreds of our people to lose their lives, a city to be destroyed. Now, today we face the same situation in Herabe Bava village. Our people are being tortured in the area that's been in blockade for thirteen days. Our people in the area have been hungry and thirsty for days. Phone lines are down in the area. For example, some houses claim to have been used as headquarters by soldiers and private operatives. Will the government make a statement about this? We're really looking forward to your answer to this bet. Witnesses say that blood is freezing; people are threatened with death, people are tortured, and especially children have been hungry and thirsty for days. The only photo came out of the area that's been in blockade for days: who shared this picture? Where was this picture taken? Explain this first. On the other hand, do you notice that you have no explanation for the situation of Abdi Aykut, which we saw in the photograph? All you can do is use the sentences you've memorized here. How will the government explain the statements of the Ministry of Interior and local resources that contradict each other so much? The latest information we've received is that the blockade has spread to the two nearby villages, unfortunately, and the blockade has begun in these areas. Did you really not learn from what we've been going through in the last year? What happened in Cizre, Sur, Nusaybin was a black mark on Turkey's history. Fear the tears of your mothers, even if you fear nothing. We make it very clear that those who remain silent today are condemned to be drowned in conscience under this plague. The most basic thing to do, dear friends, is to protect human life. If we're really a social state and a law state, it's our basic duty to protect human life first. The right to live is the most basic human right. The existence and use of all other rights depends on human life. In this regard, the protection of that right is, of course, our primary responsibility. Our most basic responsibility is to protect this right if you can't really do it on this land, so if you can't give people their right to live on this land, you have to explain it to the public, dear friends. Yeah, so what's to be done in the area today? This attitude that tries to destroy a person, especially with all rights and freedoms of life, must be abandoned immediately; the curfew that exists in the region must be lifted immediately; MPs, civil society organisations, if necessary, if requested, must go to the region with representatives of all party groups here and meet the people, citizens, immediately, and what it really is, must be heard from one individual citizen, the people. Yes, dear friends, our suggestion is that we speak very clearly here today. It's time to get off the agenda. Can you imagine... Do you really think you're making a law here in the Parliament of a state that thinks you're actually making law, along with parties that are trying to make as much opposition as possible, as well as people whose lives are at risk, while our areas of curfews, blockades still exist, while here, you're actually making laws in the Parliament of a state that says there's a legal and social state? I'm short on time, but I just want to show you this report. This is the report of İdris Bauken. This is the official report of our Deputy Director of the Group, who has been taken into custody and taken into custody for the second time. The treatment must be done in bed, and I submit this official report to the attention of the Human Rights Commission and Parliament and all the dear friends. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0262par0279	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 13 of the Law Proposal to the Amendment in some Laws, as follows, under the Law Act of Justice and Development Party Deputy President Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş. With all due respect. Omar Fethi Gürer (Niğde) and his friends The first joke of Article 61 of Law 13-5510 (d) was changed in the form of "unworklessness or the Shoplifting Ark or" and the term "payment of unemployment or the Presence of Esnaf Afilik." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0263par0288	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0262par0289	Government?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0264par0290	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0262par0291	Nüğde MP Ömer Fethi Gürer will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0265par0294	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 13th amendment of the 456 bill. Dear lawmakers, in our country, the problems of the tradesman, the farmer, the workers, the workers are getting more and more intense. The government will also be aware that today, under the name Esnaf Constitutional Ark, it is under the regulation of this law. Unfortunately, however, it is not an arrangement to address the tradesmen's problems because it is prepared without adequate consultation with trade organisations. Our Minister of Finance was just here. Regarding KOSGEB (KoSGEB), he said: "We're lending 50,000 liras on KOSGEB. " Regarding this, Mr. Prime Minister recently said that anyone who applied would be supported in this matter. According to the written document that I have received from the Minister and received a few days ago, 55% of the application made by 1,600 KOBİ in the province of Nügde can be met. However, in the last three years, 13.082 places have been closed in the districts of Yozgat, Nevşehir, and Kırşehir. I looked around to see how many people would be helped, and how many people would be supported by the SME; 66 in Aksaray, 64 in Nevşehir, 64 in Yozgat, 69 in Yozgat. In all, there are 4.663 jobs closed in Niğde province alone in three years. To address the problems of the shopkeepers, there is now a polling arrangement for tradesmen, where such arrangements are to be made; a two per cent bonus will be cut from the retailer who pays the premium, and the state will give 1%, and there will be a fund. This fund will support the shop that lost its job, but there are conditions: it will pay its bonus in the last hundred and twenty days. It's not likely that a person who pays his regular premium will experience that kind of injury, but it seems that the government has realized that the problems of the tradesmen with what they've brought cannot be solved, so the tradesman has tried to create a fund to support the tradesman. Last year, when the Esnafa announced a 30,000 lira loan, it was a mortgage, it was a guarantor, and, unfortunately, from 1,750,000 tradesmen with no bank loans, they provided that support for 43 thousand. By the time you get here, the shop's problem is going to be solved, and when you go to the field, it's going to be the problem of the tradesman. I talked to the blacksmiths' room, the coffee shops' room. They were completely out of support. They say he wants to benefit from these benefits. In this context, I would like to point out that the Esnaf Ahilik Ark, which the government is trying to create, is not a work to solve problems again. This could have been more organized, made useful to overcome the problems of the tradesman. In addition, there is an arrangement for the payment of debts to TEDAS. We don't have any more TEDS back home. There's an arrangement for past debts. We have farmers there that are powered by private companies. He's been collecting energy companies from the farmer he gave the energy to either foreclosure or foreclosure from the farmer in 15 days. Oh, the well for those who can't get it is being shut down. Now, one of the major problems with farmers in our area right now is the price of the water they're extracting with energy. Is there any improvement in that sense? There's no improvement for the farmers. The farmer who produces the product can't sell the product. When we say it here, it's assumed that we're very vocal about the potatoes, but now 400,000 tons of potatoes are waiting in the warehouse in Nigde. It's a national fortune. We're saying it here, we're saying it, we want the government to come up with a solution. It is not in this country's best interest to postpone the day by pretending to do so, rather than to solve the problems of the shopkeeper, the farmer, the worker, the pensioner, the disabled. The shopkeeper loses his job, the worker loses his job, and the troubles endure. And when we get to the field and we're told about this, when we come here and try to contribute by hand to our friends who are on the commissions, unfortunately, the government reads what it knows, and after seeing it do it wrong, it's doing it over and over again. Right now, the problems of the farmer and the tradesman, their troubles, they've become really unbearable. Where I come from, migrations are concentrated because when he doesn't make the money he's making, he goes to the city to look for work, but there's no work in the city. Therefore, I recommend that the government proceed to more serious measures in the process of increasing the problems of our unemployed. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0266par0303	Thank you, Mr. Gürer. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the Law Proposal No. 456 is changed in the form of the following. Mustafa Mit (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0267par0310	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0266par0311	Government?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0268par0312	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0266par0313	Ankara MP Mustafa Mit will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0269par0316	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group about the 13th Article of the Law Proposal for Reconstruction of Some Laws and Legislative Laws with the restructuring of some of the currently under discussion 456 rows. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the bill we're discussing has come to the House in 16 articles. Even the Commission has changed the name of the Law Proposal for the Amendment to some Laws under the Taxes Act. As a result of additions and subtractions, 26 articles came to the General Assembly. From where I'm standing, the offer is prepped and prepped. When we review the commission reports, it appears that the bidder has never attended the meetings. The commissioner's questions were answered by the Minister, not by the bidder. As such, the arrangement to the General Assembly has been recorded as a draft-looking proposal. The proposal of the law concerns more than one law that has no connection. In its first form, nine different laws are involved, while the proposal has been made a concern of 13 different laws as a result of the Commission's work. I've explained in detail the flaws of this procedure, which is described in the bag law, as I've spoken in the General Assembly before. You're bringing the law back to the General Assembly in six months at the latest, two years at the latest. Law-making techniques and procedures do not apply to conditions that are mandatory. The proposed arrangement was discussed on the day of the meeting, with the same intention, without consideration of the bill carrying the Prime Minister's signature. As much as it's an offer, it's the same as the government's bill. The Prime Minister has already announced that he had such work days ago. The Law on Public Financial Management and Control No. 5018 is in effect. The regulatory effect analysis is mandatory according to these two regulations, which are in charge of drafting the law. There is no comparison to what they bring or take to make a healthy analysis of the arrangement and contribute. In 2016, an arrangement was made for the configuration of some creditors. Recorrections were made in 2016 through this arrangement. We now include what we forgot in that arrangement in this proposal. Are there other things we've forgotten? We demand that the government take this seriously. The political institution must explain this mess and remove it as soon as possible. We believe that the law-made bag of law enforcement is effective in this. Dear lawmakers, when included in the sectors under which this proposal is offered, it is understood that almost all sectors in Turkey have a shortage of payment. In Article 61 of the Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 61 of the 13th article of the proposal, the general health insurance policy for those who will receive unemployment allowance from trades and artists is set. We are primarily welcoming and supporting the Esnaf Archipelago, which was envisioned to be set up by this proposal. However, as far as we're concerned, it brings a new burden to the tradesman and artist who are struggling to pay his taxes, his insurance, his rent. Another issue is the lack of unemployment allowances to be tied down. It will be difficult for the tradesman and artist, who are now in need of unemployment, to restore their work, to find a new job, to grow up. It is also wrong to transfer 15 per cent of the previous year's premiums to Turkey's Business Institution. The staff and rent expenses you think will be set up should be paid from the polls, and the general budget agencies should not be transferred from the polls, and I respectfully salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0270par0324	Thank you, Mr. Mit. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions in Article 14: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "a month" in Article 14 of the current Law Proposal 456 shall be changed into "three months." Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mehmet Erdoğan İsmail Faruk Aksu Muharrem Varlı Kamil Aydın Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14 of the Law Proposal No. 456 be removed from the proposal text. Ahmet Yıldırım Garo Paylan İmam Taşçıer Sibel Yiğitalp Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Burcu Çelik Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 14 of the Law Proposal to the Amendment in some Laws, as follows, under the Law Act of Justice and Development Party Group Deputy President Mustafa Elitaş. With all due respect. Utku Çakrözer Ancient Durmaz Tulip Zechariah Haziel Bült Kuşoğlu Musa Çam The second and third sentences of Article 80 of Article 14-5510 of the Law have been changed in the following way and the fourth sentence of the same joke has been abolished. "For those of the first joke (g) of the 60th article (g) in the context of general health insurance, the prime price is based on Article 82 on the amount of thirty days of basic income under the lower limit, the principal amount of earnings. However, the income test results from those who have requested income testing within 30 days of the date of registration notice, according to the results of the family's incomes, which have been determined below a third of the gross minimum wage, during which time the payments they make will be returned or taken without interest." Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0271par0354	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0270par0355	Government?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0272par0356	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0270par0357	Mr. Zechariah Haziel, MP of İzmir, will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Cleanel.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0273par0360	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, we have already stated as the Republican People's Party Group, that there are very important arrangements in which we participate, which we strive to make it happen. One of these arrangements is the arrangement for general health insurance. At the moment, we need to acknowledge that the arrangement for general health insurance is no longer viable for income detection, even that it has become serious bureaucratic difficulties, even torture, for those who want to take advantage of it. There's a need to make a change. It's supposed to be normal. However, the arrangement does not fully meet this requirement, and in terms of the principles of justice and equality, it becomes a provision that violates the 10th article of the Constitution and the 73rd Article of the Constitution. Here's the thing: we're not a country that uses public health insurance for all citizens and doesn't get paid. Everyone has to participate in this system by the amount of their income. And as he joins this system, he has to apply the principle of equality and the principle of payment power together. Because this turnout isn't just about volunteering, it's hard to buy. From the moment it is difficult to take advantage of the tax, as well as the principles of rights, justice, and equality, it is necessary to take part in social insurance premiums, a tax-like obligation. We know that we've been gradually implementing this in our previous practice. According to their income, people were contributing to this system. However, studies on the identification of people's revenues have not been done, cannot be done, or people have resisted or found the practice not appropriate for them; whatever the case is. In this case, the new arrangement has entered into a double step. People whose income is less than one-third of the minimum wage, which is less than $590, will not be able to pay after they have made any sort of income assessment. All those with income on top of this will pay 53 liras, no exceptions. So there's no justice here, and he's going to pay the same bonus, which is ten thousand liras in income and $591 in income. There's no explanation for such an event, there's no explanation, and there's no way to argue that it's fair. We also found that the ruling authorities' approach to the work needed to be done is positive. Yes, it is said that a premium system should be established, in accordance with justice, in which people have increased their income. This system needs to be studied. They may not be able to do the government's work on this revenue detection, especially as far as social security agencies are concerned right now. You know, you know, outside this institution, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy was running the ministry that was responsible for social work. From now on, another agency will run it. Perhaps it is possible to establish a system where those under certain incomes and under certain incomes are exempted by the possibilities of this institution. At least it's an app that shows that the system is being taken care of, that people's problems with income are being solved, that's very clear, that in the next process, we're already able to prepare as many bags as we want, thank God, as much as we want. Not in any bag, but if we bring it in as code law, and we edit it out, I think we can make a significant contribution to the future social security system of Turkey for those who will benefit from this system. We think that's the point of view. We also had to make this statement because we wanted the Grand Assembly to have information, that we were not opposed to the system, but would have an application that would be carried out against the Constitution. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0274par0367	Thank you, Mr. Cleanel. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14 of the Law Proposal No. 456 be removed from the proposal text. Garo Paylan (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0275par0374	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0274par0375	Government?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0276par0376	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0274par0377	İstanbul MP Garo Paylan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0277par0380	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of parliament, dear friends, the law on income testing in order to benefit from general health insurance entered into force on January 1, 2012. Look, on January 1st 2012, the AKP took effect, and let's see the results of the law: According to the results of the law, I'm not interested in this law only 8.9 per cent, which is the only one who does the income test and pays regularly. He said, "I'm not interested in it." He said, he didn't look, he didn't look; he didn't look at it because he had no income, so no one came to my door anyway. Look, I'm telling you the results: 7,200,000 people are in debt, mostly young people. 7,200,000 people owe money, so at least one in every household. They also owe $11.7 billion -- close to $12 billion. Now, after a major failure, five years after that law, the AKP brings back the law, says: "We failed, we brought this law, but no one comes, no one goes, no income test." So, what do we do? Let's erase interest on past debts, and we'll construct it at 53 TL per month. Let's try to get these and these people. In the new era, no matter who he is, let him take advantage of public health insurance when he invests $53, no matter how much he spends. A great injustice and injustice, my friends. Look, it's an obligation to pay taxes to a state, social security, and its habit when it's young, it bends when the tree is old. If you can't motivate young people in this sense, if you can't really improve the moral of paying their income, young people don't apply to the state in terms of bonuses, and they don't develop tax ethics, they don't pay taxes, and you do this bonus configuration, and you do it over and over again, and they don't pay taxes regularly, and you do it in the future, like in AKP power. Dear friends, the state has the obligation to give health care free of charge -- according to our party's opinion -- health care should be free, but everyone must pay a premium according to their income, and those who pass a minimum income test must also benefit from free health care until a serious income. Look, this system is a failure. You've passed this law, look, the system will fail again, and no one will even pay that 53 TL, because people are in trouble. Let's make this law free of charge, especially for young people and for a certain age -- let's say, until they're 28 to 30 -- until their income is twice the minimum wage. Then, let's try to get a bonus from those with high incomes and get a more serious bonus, not $53. Look, the rent is worth $100,000, but it's not in any commercial activity -- let's say it's $100,000 per month -- a person is going to pay 53 dollars, and they're going to take advantage of this bonus, and they're going to pay $592. Is there any justice in that? No. Come on, let's make this system a way to make it possible for the government to really depend on its dependence on bonuses, let's not get bonuses from those who have a certain amount of income, but let's get a higher bonus than those who have high incomes, and let's get this social justice, social justice. Dear friends -- like I said -- we can finally develop tax ethics, government premium ethics around here somewhere. This law is a very wrong law. Come on, let's unify this law, let's go back to the Plan Budget Commission, work on it one more time, let's run the social security system together under a code law, all parties, with our joint work. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0278par0388	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "a month" in Article 14 of the current Law Proposal 456 shall be changed into "three months." Mehmet Erdoğan (Muğla) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0279par0394	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0278par0395	Government?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0280par0396	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0278par0397	Mr Mehmet Erdogan will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0281par0400	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Movements to make a amendment motion on Article 14 of Law Proposal 456. I hereby salute your high council. The conditions for the benefit of the general health insurance of citizens who are not working under any social security are being revised. According to this arrangement, those whose income is less than a third of the minimum wage will now be covered by public health insurance without paying any health premiums, but our citizens, with more than a third of the minimum wage, will be able to benefit from it with a certain payment. Of course, I think it would be more appropriate in terms of social justice if this arrangement was as gradual as it was before. Of course, these are the circumstances that bother their conscience. Today we are hosting over 3 million Syrian refugees in our country. I also feel that such restrictions should be considered on providing unlimited health care for these refugees to our tax-paying citizens. Each citizen of the Republic of Turkey must be able to use health services equally. The issue of Syrian refugees occupys an important place on our country's agenda. I also believe that the areas that the coalition forces have controlled in Syria should be opened up with constant preparations for the country and that the return of Syrian refugees living in Turkey should be on the agenda. Today, both tourism and agriculture are in a difficult position in my constituency of choice. We all know 2016 was a very bad year for the tourism industry. Again, the agricultural sector has been under a lot of strain. I've shared with you many times before our findings and proposals for solutions on this bench, and today I repeat that the situation of our citizens is difficult. Thousands of our young people from agriculture, tourism, who have earned their bread, are not invited to work this season, or are desperate to be called to work. It's getting harder and harder for both our tradesman and farmer to pay the social security premiums for our citizens who make their living in these sectors. Given the current situation, the collection of these people's bonuses will not be easy after this. In order for our citizens not to become unemployed, a study must be made today about reducing the premiums that these people will pay, or some of which will be met by the state, so that their victims do not grow up to be like snowballs. Mr. President, good lawmakers, this law also provides arrangements for the sale of property to foreigners with specific exceptions. Even if we assume that this arrangement is a good deed, the situation is much deeper and more thought - than expected. Today in Muğla, foreign owners sell their properties, and there are more dwellings for sale than ever before. Our other friends of the Mughal MP know that, too. Clearly, we need to improve our image in the international community. At the beginning of the tourism industry these days, it is inevitable that activities to promote our cultural and tourism values will be carried out with a total spirit of mobilisation. Speaking of which, I'd like to add some suggestions. Promotion organizations, of course, are useful, but not enough. This has to be enough. We don't want such palliative measures, support for the tourism industry, for the industry, for the hotel, for the tour operator; our problem, our demand, is to ensure the industry's work. And for that, we have concrete suggestions, which I hope our government will consider. The campaign must first start with the talks of Turkish citizens living abroad spending their vacations in Turkey; a worldwide campaign to promote through active social media, through the Internet. Public personnel involved in the fight against terrorism must receive a week's tourism package in 2017. We've told you before that internal tourism needs to be revived, and we're saying it again. In that sense, for example, we have two airports in Mugla, no flights to any airport outside Ankara, Istanbul. We plan to also take initiative from Turkish Airlines flying all over the world and plan flights to the region during the summer season. We'd like to eliminate the transportation barrier to our citizen's tourist destination. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, again, are going through a bad time in the agricultural sector. Therefore, we ask the government not to accept ectimimicils in agriculture and tourism in 2017. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0282par0415	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0283par0416	President, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit03spe0282par0417	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0282par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough in the vote given by Muğla MP Mehmet Erdogan and his friends on Article 14 of Law Proposal 456. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions in Article 15 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposed Law Proposal No. 456 be changed to "down to zero" and changed to "down to zero" after the declaration of "this rate" in the framework Article 15 of the current Law Proposal. Mustafa Kalaycı İsmail Faruk Aksu Fahrettin Oguz Tor Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Muharrem Varlı Kamil Aydın Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 15 of the Law Against the Law Against the Council of Justice and Development Party Deputy President Mustafa Elitaş's Law on Taxes and Changes in Some Laws. With all due respect. The Ancient Durmaz Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Zechariah Hazimel Tule Karbük Utku Çakırözer Bkent Kuşoğlu The following sentence has been added to the first joke (f) of Article 81 of Law No. 15-5510. "However, for those who are subject to the first joke of the 60th article (g) the general health insurance premium is 3% of the primary income, and the Council of Ministers is authorized to increase this rate to 6%." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 15 of the Law Proposal No. 456 be removed from the proposal text. Ahmet Yıldırım Yiğil Yiğitalp Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Garo Paylan Imam Taşçıer Erol Dora Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0284par0033	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0282par0034	Government?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0285par0035	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0282par0036	Mr Ahmet Yıldırım will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0286par0039	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we've been saying this for two days, and we're going to keep saying it, because even years later, a decision that Parliament would be ashamed of was signed two days ago by reading the text on a piece of paper. Mr. Figen will explain to law students how such a decision in international law was taken in a state of mind, as well as how it was taken by law by law, by the Civil Code, by the Constitution, by the Constitution. In this respect, it is still our call: the reading of this country, which has not been convened and has not been convened in the last week, without informing the party of this decision, without informing the other members of the Presidential Court, without informing them of the fire, with political intelligence -- which, yesterday, the Prime Minister confirmed our claim that this was taken with political advice -- is here as a disgrace to this country, this Parliament, and we insist that it be re-examined. Dear lawmakers, the life of one power ends in two ways. One ends in election; two ends in election, by violating the authority he received from the people, by violating the promises he made against the people, by using it against the people. We'll see, after a year and a half of making decisions and developing practices against these people, these people will be able to answer these policies on April 16th, because they can't defend this pack of freaks prepared. We would have wished that the only single ingredient of this package that has been prepared by the power for months had been explained to the people of this country what would benefit them, for example, if the Prime Minister had said, "Yes" rather than saying, "No" because he said, "This is the kind of peace that will bring peace to the people of this country, the 7th article will open the way for the economy in this country, and that's how the 11th article will ensure stability in this country." He can't get in because even one of the 18 articles in which the people of this country have a political, social, social, economic, cultural contribution, a relief, a benefit? No. If they did, they wouldn't be following the negative legitimacy of our party, they'd be following a political line through their own truth. Now, in action from here, the campaign run by political power is not the "yes" campaign, but "no" campaign, "no" campaign, "no" campaign, "no" campaign, "no" campaign. No one has ever told the people of this country how a clause can contribute to its democracy, freedom, social peace, economic well-being, not the President, not the Prime Minister, not the minister; tell them what materials bring to the people of this country. Running a campaign on a package that you don't argue about is not a "no" campaign, it's a "no" campaign, and in that sense, our people who don't see themselves in it will demonstrate their stand against this package. There is no Turk in this package, there is no Kurd; there is no Alevi, there is no Sunni; there is no worker, there is no employer. Most of this community can't find itself in a substance that enhances the sense of belonging and ownership of this country. In this way, if they trust their packages, then let them come up with these materials and how this package will benefit this country in total, and let them go after who said no. Whoever says no says no. We're not the ones preparing it. Why are you running a campaign on us? Didn't you prepare one item at a time? Didn't you argue on the commission, didn't you defend it in the General Assembly? And you didn't miss it on TV while you were doing it? You didn't stop the public from watching them in good health? Didn't you deny the demand for a live broadcast? Well, then the campaign is not to campaign yes, but to find a cover for a package that can't be defended, but to run a no-no campaign over who says no. I say that our people, who cannot see themselves in this package, will express their feelings to the political power on April 16th about this package, with a strong no, for the good of this country. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0287par0046	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 15 of the Law Proposal to the Amendment in some Laws, as follows, under the Law Law Law Law Act of Mustafa Elitaş, Vice President of Justice and Development Party No. 456. Mahmut Tanal (Istanbul) and his friends The following sentence has been added to the first joke (f) of Article 81 of Law No. 15-5510. "However, for those who are subject to the first joke of the 60th article (g) the general health insurance premium is 3% of the primary income, and the Council of Ministers is authorized to increase this rate to 6%." Does the Commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0288par0055	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0287par0056	Government?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0289par0057	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0287par0058	İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0290par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute and salute you all. I'd be happy to have the precious Minister of Finance here, if my friends wouldn't keep me busy, because there's a problem with the IRS in our district of Üsküdar. In Üsküdar...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0291par0065	Congressman, Mr. Tanal wanted to address the minister and ask him a question. If you'll excuse me... Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0290par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, there are nearly 40,000 taxpayers in the district of Üsküdar. The IRS in Üskudar district has moved from Ümraniye Toya Street. Article 8 of the regulation on the establishment of tax offices states that the tax office must be established within the borders of the district where it is located. I couldn't find any exceptions to that. If there is an exception, I'd like to learn from you. Although the law and regulations for the establishment of existing tax offices have ordered the establishment of those borders, the removal of another district's tax office of Skopjedar, which is 40,000 taxpayers, to the inside of the Ümraniye borders, is indeed a problem for taxpayers. In fact, it's a separate problem with notifications about letters that could be sent to the taxpayers by the IRS. Our citizen has to travel a long way, more or less, to pay his taxes. And this is causing a great deal of trouble for the taxpayers in terms of tax justice. I demand that this unlawful situation be restored as soon as possible. I actually made a promise on the 17th article of our current proposal. An expansion has been made into the arrangement that employers cannot benefit from employment incentives in the event of an unregistered employment or falsification of the 17th article. So when this is first identified, he won't be able to benefit from employment and incentives in a month, but if he does that again, again, in three years, he won't get a year. What does that mean? It's actually an uninsured issue that encourages hiring workers, running them off the books. It's also an incentive for the state to be deprived of its income in terms of its impact. That's what encourages the work of uninsured employees. It's also against social security policy. This is also contrary to the principles of justice, equality and freedom, which are the basic principles of tax law. Now, when we look at the reason here, it says: for any reason that you run without insurance, it's no excuse not to know the law here. In fact, what's reasonable, what's reasonable, has to be legal. Here, the fugitive staff, the employee worker, will benefit from the current employment incentives, but will also be collected when a fine is fined under the labour law's provisions, as an illegal worker is employed. What's this? It's not really an arrangement that's incompatible with the law. If he didn't show it by mistake when he made the arrangements here, then the administrative fine is also an intentional issue, which eliminates involuntary law. We have friends inside who are lawyers. So if there's really a violation of the law, it's illegal, it eliminates the intent. If it is not mistaken that it should be shown here that it should be covered by insurance and should be used by employment, then the intention is to eliminate these administrative fines, and the arrangement needs to be extended further. I thank you. I pay my respects. And my request from the minister is that the Üsküdar trades really is a victim. So, if you don't have a place to rent, I'll rent my house to your Ministry for free, not from your Ministry. Come, give this service to our merchants in my house, to our citizens. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0292par0075	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0293par0076	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0292par0077	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0293par0080	Thank God, our government has every opportunity. We also provide our citizens with all kinds of services in our tax offices, Mr. Tanal. You, God willing, give us the promise of forgiveness to a poor wretch here, and we'll all give you a round of applause. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Do you?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0294par0081	You answer me, trade tax...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0293par0082	I'll give it to you, I'll give you the answer.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0294par0083	I'll give you the answer. Does the president promise me? Can the president open it from here?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0293par0084	No, I'll finish one answer. Friends tell me that they have a temporary lease on the building in Skopjedar, which seems to be a problem with the earthquake risk. Meanwhile, they are working on a search for a place in the Skopjedar region. It's temporary. We are extremely sensitive for our citizens to receive services from the tax office. We have a work effort to offer service at the nearest point. They said it was temporary. I'll take good care of it. May you make your promise to give this house to one of our brothers and one of our poor, poor brothers in Skopjedar.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0295par0087	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0296par0088	He just picked on me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0297par0089	He didn't, he didn't.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0295par0093	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposed Law Proposal No. 456 be changed to "down to zero" and changed to "down to zero" after the declaration of "this rate" in the framework Article 15 of the current Law Proposal. Ahmet Selim Yurdakul (Antalia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0298par0099	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0295par0100	Government?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0299par0101	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0295par0102	Mr Ahmet Selim Yurdakul will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0300par0105	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we are discussing changes to the IRS Act today. In fact, I had planned to say a few words about tax incentives and obstacles in the life of commerce, but the AKP MP who submitted the law proposal to Parliament wrote the following statement, or rather the following statement, which I read in his statement: Starting on January 1, 2012, citizens with no social security are required under general health insurance under Law 5510. Whether he likes it or doesn't like it, whether he takes advantage of health care or not, every citizen has to pay general health insurance. We've told him many times how the AKP government came to this point. As we said development, let's see what happens tomorrow. They said, "We have to focus on production." They succumbed to hunger for concrete. Finally, in order to make him pay for his wrong economic policies, they locked him in a clamp, with general health insurance, looking for the last money in his pocket. Dear MPs, good citizens, I know you have no wealth, no capital, but the government continues to write a debt on your account every day. However, the government also realizes that you cannot pay these premiums. Look, how the ruling party's MP admits this: from 2012 to today, it has also been seen to have some setbacks in the system that provides health for citizens who have no social security. At the beginning of these setbacks, it is possible that our citizens in this area do not have the habit of paying their general health insurance premium debt and the system is not simple. He says: "The system has been seen to have some setbacks. " Did you have to try to see that? Don't you have any experts and people with merit around you? Look, I'm a medic. If you had asked, I would have told you that this system would not work, that it is contrary to basic human rights. So I've become a government, and I know everything. That's what's wrong with saying it. As much as our Republic has wavered in the last 15 years, no time has, unfortunately, experienced so much uncertainty. I'm continuing on the general basis of the law proposal. The deputy of the ruling party said he was willing to reduce various tax and so-called costs in order to reduce construction costs. In fact, while the citizen was unable to digest the label of the five-dollar tomato he encountered in the marketplace, the ruling contractors were concerned about selling the apartments that were left in their possession. Honourable lawmakers, if you would like to overcome the difficulties you face in developing policies to touch the citizens' pockets and teeth, please listen to the voice of the citizen. With this clause, you're now obliged to pay 53 lira for the public health insurance premium, depending on what you've already earned. That's how you want our citizens, about 7 million of our citizens, to pay off their savings, but you've seen that it's not possible, and you've seen it before in the pardon trials, and you'll see it now. Our citizens who are now in debt don't even have the opportunity to pay this money, they're already making a hard living, that's not the solution. If you want to make citizens breathe and enrich their trade life, first withdraw taxes on transportation and communication and provide our citizens with a human income level. For example, with these fuel prices, you've trapped our country inside an inextricable cedera. I'd like you to please come and explain why you've withheld the fuel tax advantage you're offering these ships from the Turkish nation. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0301par0114	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, there are four motions in Article 16: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal No. 456 is currently in session. We propose and propose the release of the item text of "and rights owners" in the fourth joke, which states that they are obliged to take care of the first joke (b) added to Article 5510 and Article No.16. Aydın Ünal Mehmet Doğan Kubat Necip Shield Mehmet Mush Haydar Ali Yildı Osman Look at your love Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the Law Proposal No. 456 is changed into a "responsibility requirement" in the framework Article 16 of Article 16 of the current Law Proposal. Mustafa Kalaycı İsmail Faruk Aksu Fahrettin Oguz Tor Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Muharrem Varlı Kamil Aydın Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 16 of the Law Proposal to the Amendment in some Laws. With all due respect. Tulip Carbage, Haluk Pekşen Zaziel Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Bült Kuşoğlu Utku Çakırözer The following article has been added to Law 16-5510. "EK MADDE 13-a) Turkish citizens who reside in Turkey do not live in Turkey and are the parents, fathers, spouses and children of the first joke of Article 16 of Article 6735 of the International Labor Law, dated 28/7/2016. B) The parents, spouses, and children who are under Article 13 of Article 16 (c) of Article 16 of Law 6735, and under Article 13 of the same Law are obliged to care for, If they demand it, it is considered a general health insurance policy from the day it follows the demand date, without a requirement for residence under the first clause (g) of Article 60 of the Law. The 1st joke of Article 3 (10) does not apply to general health insurance holders under this clause. In order for general health insurance holders to benefit from health care services within the scope of this clause, it is imperative that on the day they apply to the health care server, there should not be any debt due to the premiums and bonuses, except those who continue to apply for a registration and installment of Article 6183 under Article 48 of the Law. The first clause (b) applies to the first article (a) of the 67th article (a) as the 30-day premium payment requirement for the owners of the first joke (b) as 120 days. Regarding the general health insurance holders of this clause, the provisions of this law shall be carried out on the grounds that there are no other provisions. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this substance are determined by the Institution." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 16 of Law Proposal 456 be removed from the proposal text. Ahmet Yıldırım Yiğil Yiğitalp Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Garo Paylan Imam Taşçıer Erol Dora Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0302par0159	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0301par0160	Government?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0303par0161	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0301par0162	Mardin MP Erol Dora will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0304par0165	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the 16th Amendment to the IRS Act. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, as you know, two days ago, Mr. Figen, the Democratic Party's Co-Chair, was deputized. Now, I believe we can't simply skip these issues. Look, when we were elected, we had immunity according to Article 83 of the Constitution, and so it was our right to win. So all elected MPs entered the elections because of their immunity, and there is also a decree on the third part of Article 83 of Article 83 concerning the member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, that a sentence issued before or after his election should be passed, that the title of membership should be terminated; it does not apply to the statute of limitations during membership. What is the purpose here, what is murat? The citizens of all lawmakers are free to represent their own constituents, to express their every thought, including the immunity of the bench; in this sense, the freedom of lawmakers to express their opinions without hesitation; in almost all countries, in almost all democratic countries, in all European countries, there is immunity status, the institution. But despite our earned rights, you know, our immunity has been lifted in violation of our Constitution, contrary to international contracts and reports from the Venice Commission. Of course, the AKP alone could lift the immunity of our MPs on the basis of the Civil Code and the relevant provisions of the Constitution, but it did not go this way, by making a legal arrangement, by jointising the CHP and the MP, our parliamentary immunity has been lifted. This was, in fact, an unconstitutional arrangement. This will be noted as a note to history. Our parliamentary immunity has been lifted in violation of our Constitution, our Civil Code, and international agreements -- it has been noted as a historical note -- because according to the Constitution and the Civil Code, the Commission of Karma, all MPs can each defend themselves one by one, and after they have held their defences in the General Assembly, their immunity could only be removed by voting in the General Assembly. And you know in that sense, they also had the right to go to the Supreme Court. Why am I stressing this? Now, as if that wasn't enough, as you know, our co-chair Figen Yüksekdağ, the legislature of our co-chair, has been lifted according to the relevant joke of Article 84. In fact, if you look at the conditions of our Constitution's 76th article, in which sense there are warrants to be reduced from which MPs will be elected, and in these crimes, there is no crime against our MP, and although he has received a ten-month sentence, our Co-Chair's legislature has been reduced. Look, despite the fact that Kemal Aktas, a member of our party's parliament in the 24th term, was then a six-and-a-half-year sentence for Van MP of the Peace and Democracy Party, the Parliamentary Assembly did not make it read in the General Assembly, and this was established as a mission. Now, despite all of this, in a referendum like this, 13 of our MPs are currently under arrest in prison, and our Co-Chair Figen Yüksekdağ has been demobilised. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's not acceptable. It's a political decision, it has nothing to do with the law.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0305par0172	Thank you, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0304par0173	This will go down in history, and at the same time, it will be a stain on history that this referendum will be questionable.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0305par0174	Mr. Dora, thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0304par0175	I salute the General Assembly again with my last words.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0305par0176	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 16 of the Law Proposal to the Amendment in some Laws. With all due respect. Haluk Pekşen (Trabzon) and his friends The following article has been added to Law 16-5510. "EK MADDE 13-a) Turkish citizens who reside in Turkey do not live in Turkey and are the parents, fathers, spouses and children of the first joke of Article 16 of Article 6735 of the International Labor Law, dated 28/7/2016. B) The parents, spouses, and children who are under Article 13 of Article 16 (c) of Article 16 of Law 6735, and under Article 13 of the same Law are obliged to care for, If they demand it, it is considered a general health insurance policy from the day it follows the demand date, without a requirement for residence under the first clause (g) of Article 60 of the Law. The 1st joke of Article 3 (10) does not apply to general health insurance holders under this clause. In order for general health insurance holders to benefit from health care services within the scope of this clause, it is imperative that on the day they apply to the health care server, there should not be any debt due to the premiums and bonuses, except those who continue to apply for a registration and installment of Article 6183 under Article 48 of the Law. The first clause (b) applies to the first article (a) of the 67th article (a) as the 30-day premium payment requirement for the owners of the first joke (b) as 120 days. Regarding the general health insurance holders of this clause, the provisions of this law shall be carried out on the grounds that there are no other provisions. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this substance are determined by the Institution." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0306par0193	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0305par0194	Government?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0307par0195	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0305par0196	Mr. Haluk Pekşen will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Pekshen.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0308par0199	Mr. President, honorable MPs, we will celebrate the day of Tripoli's salvation with great enthusiasm. As our brave people of Anatolia, the brave people of the Black Sea, and as a member of Tripoli, I salute and salute our General Assembly. Just as Nazim said in his poem: "There were people in the air and in the beginnings, who had long crooked noses, who liked to talk with lust, who could have died without expecting anything from anyone, as if they were singing a song. Yes, these brave and patriotic people of my hometown have unfortunately been very upset by the AKP's power over the past 15 years. For example, drinking water carries carcinogens, such as an organised industrial area, which has not been taken a step in the foundation for 15 years, is still in place. Although Tripoli was promised, no plans were made for an investment island, no steps were taken. Their streams were plundered, their shores plundered, their roads were not made, and the people of the Black Sea were condemned to poverty and poverty. Look, on the day that the AKP came to power, the population of the city, the population of Tripoli, the population of 1 million, 50,000, now 760,000, the growing population, along with the multiplying population, migrated from Tripoli, and left. Why? Because there's great poverty. This poverty is still going on, 456,000 people of the city live on the edge of poverty. These are official statistics from the governorate of Tripoli. Again, we have 73,000 pensioners in Tripoli, and a significant number of pensioners are trying to maintain their lives on the edge of starvation. In fact, this is the model of service that the AKP had done to the people of the Black Sea. I'm willing to talk to you wherever you want, even on a friendly television, and with an advocacy of yours, the Black Sea, and I'm ready. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I only have one suggestion for you. Look, so far there's been a lot of power in Turkey, and I've been calling on AKP power for days, and I've been telling you for years, you should at least have a service to one sector in this country. So, the late Ozal has set up tourism for this country, so, the Ironels, other governments, coalitions, they've invested in textiles, they've built contractors. Come, encourage the industry of nuts and chocolates in this country. Why don't you invest in the world's largest nut producer, the Black Sea District, the chocolate industry, why don't you just hand it over to the Italians, the Dutch, the Swiss, the Germans, and I just don't get it. Really, you get an incredible vote from the Black Sea, but you have nothing to give to the Black Sea in return.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0309par0205	We are being rewarded for our service to the Black Sea.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0308par0206	Look, even the price of nuts is miserable, people are poor, people are miserable. There are universities in the Black Sea. I'm asking you to do a survey, for God's sake, a question for the young people in the Black Sea, does any young Black Sea have a plan that will come to him in any province of the Black Sea when he graduates from the university? He's not. Why? Everyone's used to migrating, and the Black Sea man can make his future by migrating on hand-to-hand. This is the model of your power. Look, let me tell you something. He goes to our base parachutist, and he says: "I want to buy a parachute, give me one of the best parachutes. " The parachutist pulls out the best parachutes, puts the best quality in front of it. Well, tell me about it now, and I'll find out. It says: "Look, this is the cord of the parachute, and when you pull it, the parachute opens." He says, "Well, what happens if it doesn't open?" Then there's a spare, and when you pull the back up, the second one opens the bench. What will I do if it does not open? It says: "Relax, don't worry, there's a two-year guarantee, you bring it in, we'll change it, just like AKP power." [[Applause from CHP rows]] During each election, you told the Black Sea a project to be passed on to the next election. Yeah, they told that train story from Erzincan to Tripoli, which is more than just a basic joke. Mr. Group Vice President, you know that flying train, they didn't just promise Tripoli a flying train, and I won't be surprised if they do. I salute the General Assembly and Tripoli. Once again, I celebrate the salvation of my beautiful city, where the brave, patriotic people of the Black Sea were raised. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0310par0213	Thank you, Mr. Pekshen. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the law under which 456 rows are discussed be changed to the condition of the notification in the framework Article 16. Spiritual Ersoy (Osmania) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0311par0220	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0310par0221	Government?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0312par0222	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0310par0223	Mr. Ruhi Ersoy will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0313par0226	I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers are concerned about the regulation of Turkish citizens who reside in Turkey's 16th article, while living abroad and are not Turkish citizens, as well as that of their parents, spouses and children, who are obliged to care for their parents, fathers, spouses and children. There's no natural, human, civilized demand for that. The National Movement Party Group finds this arrangement positive and supports it to the end. The main point of origin, which finds this job civilized, is that family integrity and family unity are related to the union of parents, children, grandchildren, and general health insurance may be related to the hospital, health care, but we know that the largest social security and general insurance is a family institution in the Turkish community. There's no reason to even discuss the importance of the family institution. In this regard, there is a ministry in the government of the Republic of Turkey, and there are many subsidiaries, but the work on the protection and strengthening of the family institution is not good enough, but it must be strengthened. In this context, while we're doing it on the one hand, we often bring up issues that destroy the family institution and cause controversy as the National Party of Action. One of the motions given by our group last week was to be referred to in this context as the "women's generation" programs, the "family programs" in the family's view, as well as the "subject programs" under the name "subject." We have been informed that the Minister of Family and Social Policy has taken action on this issue after the Millitarian Movement Party brought up the issue; information has reached out that talks with various media producers have been made; members of the Council have shared with us the decision to establish a subcommittee under the Council Commission, as RTÜK's president visited the leadership of the National Movement Party and later other commissions that exist within the Parliament. We find these developments positive. We believe that these partnerships and the ground of discussion should be saved from this disgrace by Turkey, and that the screens should be cleaned, and that instead, the programs in that generation should be filled with the values of culture's fine work, which have been updated and done in a more qualified way. I'd like to address Mr. Numan Survivmiş Bey here, and I'd like to address TRT General Director Shenol Göka Bey. I'd like to address the RTÜK President and Vice President: Under the supervision of Deputy Prime Minister Kurtish, the director of TRT, the head of the RTÜK, and the commissioner of the Commission on the matter, and with the opinion of all political parties who have an expertise in this matter, we'd like to invite them to hold a joint mental meeting in the custody of the head of the RTÜK. Before I came here, I called TRT Director-General Shenol Galaxy on one occasion, thanked him for his good intentions at his institution, but I made comments on some issues about their fairness and fairness. But from this stand, again, to Deputy Prime Minister Numan Survivmiş Bey and to the relevant commission and to the relevant ministry and to the relevant bureaucrats, it seems that everything is being resolved by commission, but I'm talking to the members of parliament, who are experts in the matter of meeting a round table meeting and their ideas, and with the possibility of partying as members of the group presidents, I think such a meeting would be very useful, and I'm talking about it from here. And I respectfully salute the General Assembly, in order to strengthen their social ties with their families who live in Turkey and stay abroad, who are not able to maintain family integrity.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0314par0234	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0315par0236	Mr. President, I'd like to take a very short statement from my position according to 60.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0314par0237	Motion accepted. [[The AK PARTY is unsound.]] It wasn't. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0315par0240	I'd like to make a statement based on 60.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0314par0241	It gets a little complicated when you're doing a procedure and there's another demand. The motion is not accepted. Let's make it clear. Here, one moment, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0316par0246	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've also told you in the Commission that the reason for the matter is that we do not find it right for the Turkish Republic of Turkey to write a clause for the benefit of the citizens of the Turkish noble Republic of Turkey, an important one for the benefit of its relatives, but on the basis of Turkish nobility, because it is the basis of the citizenship of the Republic of Turkey. The Republic of Turkey has citizens and has many descendants. I think it would be better if these statements were not passed into our laws as Turkish nobles, but as relatives of the citizens of the Republic of Turkey. I told that to our Commissioner, but he said he couldn't arrange the grounds. From now on, I'd like to say that it would be more appropriate for the bureaucracy to form such expressions in such articles as pluralistic, within the framework of the citizenship of the Republic of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0317par0249	Thank you. I'm having the final motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal No. 456 is currently in session. We propose and propose the removal and release of the articles of the article "and rights owners" from the text of the article, which is part of the "obligatory to look" on the first clause (b) which is added to Article 5510. Mehmet Mush (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0318par0258	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0317par0259	Government?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0319par0260	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0320par0261	Motive...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit04spe0317par0262	I'm reading the reason: A technical arrangement has been made to address any possible hesitations in the application. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 16th article has been accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0317par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal No. 456. The Commission and the Government are here.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0321par0004	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0317par0005	Mr. Akçay, I'm listening. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0321par0009	Mr. President, I would like to point out that the concept of Turkish nobility is in line with the definition of citizenship in our Constitution's 66th Article, and it does not have any distinction, and it is necessary to understand all citizens of the Republic of Turkey according to the provision of Turkish citizenship in Article 66 of our Constitution. I found it useful to express it. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0317par0011	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 19 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the First Amendment, which is in Article 19 of Law Proposal 456, is changed to the end of its first joke. Ahmet Yıldırım Yiğil Yiğitalp Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the following amendment of Article 19 of the Law Proposal to the Amendment in some Laws and the Law Law Law Act of Mustafa Elitaş, deputy chairperson of Justice and Development Party No. 456. With all due respect. Bült Kuşoğlu Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Zekeriya Şeşel Musa Pine Ancient Don't Stop Utku Cakırözer The following sentence has been added at the end of the first joke of Article 71 of Law 19-5510. "However (a) the main daily earnings of the cabinet shall be determined by the Council of Ministers in implementing the bell can also be determined for private sector employers under the provisions of Trade Unions 18/10/2012 and Group Business Contract Law 6356. Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0322par0034	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0317par0035	Government?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0323par0036	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0317par0037	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0324par0038	Motive...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0317par0039	I'm reading the reason: The change is made to better understand the text of matter. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Since the other motion has been dropped, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion in Article 21 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 21 of the Law Proposal to the Amendment in some Laws, as follows, under the Law Act of Justice and Development Party Group Deputy President Mustafa Elitaş. With all due respect. Bült Kuşoğlu Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Zekeriya Şeşel Ancient Durmaz Utku Cakirözer Tulip ADDE 21-19/9/2006, and number 5543, added the following article. "EK MADDE 2- (1) is being carried out by the State Water Affairs General Directorate and any right given to the Ministry by the State Water Affairs General Directorate, any rights, duties, and powers given to the Ministry in relation to the residence of those who have been forced to abandon their positions as a result of partially or entirely publicisation of the settlements in the area of the dam mujavir. As part of this clause, the procedures and foundations for the dwelling are determined by the Council of Ministers' decision on the proposal of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. (2) In order to ensure that rights, authority and tasks within the first joke can be carried out by the State Water Affairs General Directorate, those required by the provisions of this Law are registered on behalf of the State Water Affairs General Directorate for the purpose of the housing activities left under the first joke. For the same purpose, those required and requested for use are registered to the private property of the Treasury or under the government's government's jurisdiction and auspices, and those deemed acceptable to the Ministry of Finance are registered to the State Water Affairs General Directorate for free of charge, but those who are not needed or used are registered to the Treasury Department's request for reassignment without charge. In this joke, the State Department of Waters is authorized to perform all sorts of times, July, tebhid, ifraz, registration, abandonment and sair operations on the record. Under Article 19/4/2012 and Article 4 of Law 6292, for use of this clause, areas to be removed outside the forest limits are transferred to the property on behalf of the State Water Affairs General Directorate. (3) Projects that have been announced according to this Law prior to the date of the execution of this clause are conducted by the Ministry." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0325par0060	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0317par0061	Government?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0326par0062	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0317par0063	İstanbul MP Gülay Basci will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Backup.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0327par0066	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the High Council with love. I've made a commitment to the Law on income tax number 456 and the Law on Changes in Some Laws. We're up against another bag of law. Last year, Mr. Prime Minister said he'd never bring another bag of laws. But again, a bag of laws was brought in. First of all, I'd like to talk about: Parliaments are always for society to live better, for society to be happier and more peaceful with the law, but here, especially recently, the bag of legislation is not discussed in any commission, only in the Plan and Budget Commission. Now, there hasn't been enough talks in this bag of legislation in the Plan and Budget Commission. This is also available in the Commission's transcripts. This bag is clearly in violation of the Constitution, and this is a troubling situation. The 21st article is also being carried out by the State Water Affairs General Directorate and is requested to be given the authority of the entire publicisation and housing work for dam projects to be carried out. That's wrong. Why is it wrong? Because there's not a team of experts in the State Water Department that can do this kind of work. How are you going to do these studies? Besides, the fact that there's no merit to the state has already broken its foundation. Also, when we look at the dams you've made so far, such as the dams you've built in Istanbul, it's clear that Istanbul has a serious problem with water, drinking water, and using water. It is also possible to talk about a very serious danger in this article. As part of this article, for use in the housing operation, I stress that the property will be registered to the DSI Directorate of the Forest Villages, dated 19/4/2012, to support the Development of Forest Villages No. 6292, and to assess Places Extremised outside Forest Borders in the Treasure Name of Treasure, and for the sale of Lands of Agriculture of Treasures under Article 4. So far, it is clear how wrong the DSI has used these fields to build them. What's to be done here? What needs to be done here, again, is to get the opinion of engineers, architects, city planners and vocational rooms, given the needs of local governments, municipalities, and citizens there. In any of your studies, you're not getting any view of university disciplines or vocational rooms, and you're even trying to render their vocational rooms dysfunctional. Of all the things that the DSI has to do here, we don't know why you want to upload this and that to the DSI when the DSI is inadequate in a lot of fields, in agriculture, in irrigation. But we attribute it to AKP's monopolitan mentality. The AKP wants to run everything from headquarters. Here he thinks he can manage all of this by connecting it to the DSI. But you know that institutions are important, and one of the republic's institutions is DSI. You must not allow this to be emptied, and you must allow our people to receive the services of the DSI, and the DSI must not do any work on the dam and its surroundings, the construction of meadows, grasslands, forests. In this sense, we can clearly see that you're not showing sufficient sensitivity. And here we see you in the form of those who don't... who accept all the matter... with our hearts aching. I hope and wish that you would give up this attitude and the DSI will go back to their own self-interest and do the development and planning work, as well as the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. I welcome you all, and I bid you good evening.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0328par0076	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion in Article 22 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the following amendment of Article 22 of the Law Proposal to the Amendment in some Laws by Mustafa Elitaş, deputy chairperson of Justice and Development Party No. 456. With all due respect. Tulip Carabinieri Musa Pine Zechariah Haziel Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Bült Kuşoğlu Utku Çakırözer MADDE 22-15/05/2007, with a temporary clause attached to the Law on the Ending of Bail from Turkey's Agriculture Bank Anonym Corporation and Agriculture Loan Co-operatives (MADDE 22-15/05/2007). "Secondly, the current regulations in the related jokes are applied as payment or restructuring date 31/12/2018 for those in debt who have not cleared their debts under the first and fourth jokes of the 1st Article of this Law. This arrangement does not give you the right to ask for refunds regarding the collection debt." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0329par0092	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0328par0093	Government?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0330par0094	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0328par0095	Mr. Old Man Durmez will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Durmaz.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0331par0098	Mr. President, dear MPs, dear nation, I salute you all. In 15 years, the AKP government set a record for enriching its relatives and its supporters, while we lost many of our values in this country one by one. TECEL, TELEKOM, SEKA, Sumerbank, you sold the power plants one by one with crooked privatisations. It's all been a rush to save the day, but you couldn't save the day. When hundreds of people died in business accidents, you said, "Fiftrat," "destiny." You did what September 12th couldn't with the AKP's power. On September 12th, 127 academics were expelled, while today you cut off 4,811 academics from the university. You put more than 150 journalists in prison. No. You've declared him a terrorist, you've replaced him. Whereas it was you who sat at the same table with the terrorists and negotiated. Again, the Ataturk and the Republican Loved Gezen Art Center, which paid for all the education of the children of fallen police, was set on fire, but you couldn't even say it was a past. At the coming point, you made the peasant, the small tradesman, the artist, unable to pay his debts, and then you built up a debt. You couldn't protect the reputation of the Turkish lira you lost the most in your power against the dollar. You've ignored the shopkeeper, the unemployed, the farmer who couldn't buy diesel for his tractor, the pensioner, and reset the debts of businesses close to your power. The world knows that corruption is your world, but you don't care about poverty and the cost. And you don't stop bragging about the welfare benefits you've created for the poor you've created. You've seen a lot of gas for the yacht owner, for the stranger, for the farmer, for the manufacturer, for the VAT, for the VAT. You transferred the Agriculture Bank, which has served Turkish agriculture and its farmer for a hundred and fifty-four years, with the sign of the Republic of Turkey on its sign for 177 years, to Turkey's communications centre, PTT Τ, Eti Mine, CHURUR, and many more important values, without asking our beloved nation, the Republic's acquisition institutions. You introduced bag laws to pensioners, farmers, shopkeepers with fancy words. You've tried every means to discredit the Veteran Assembly. You're deceiving civil society organizations with non-profit, non-responsive regulations. Istinna (Istinna), fucking support, the tax discount, it says, "It's easy," you keep fooling these people, you want the presidency in return, and so do our people, and we call it no. In Turkey, everything will be national and everything will be domestic. Congressmans, what happened in the economy is saying different things. We have no nationality, no indigenousity. The Republic of Turkey is not a country of negotiation. These people don't forget that the wheat that their peasant sold for 95 cents on the dollar stood before them for $5, and they know it. He doesn't forget the values you've destroyed in our country; he knows his national values, he knows his culture, he knows his republic and his achievements, and he gives you the answer you need. Dear lawmakers, when we say AKP power, which has been seeking stability for fifteen years, what comes to mind is that in 15 years, teachers, agricultural engineers, and engineers in various majors, veterinary physicians, health workers, subcontractors waiting for staff; petty officers who trust the government, whether to resign or not, experts are part of the unemployed army created by the AKP government. Unfortunately, we're always talking about what you didn't do, what you sacrificed. While there are 450,000 unassigned teachers, the education system says there are chapters that will not be appointed for the next 20 years. What about those who read these chapters? You're against rational thinking, you're against questioning, you're not appointing philosophy teachers, and that's the philosophy you don't need. All those parts you've ignored say no to you and your unjust practices in order to normalize our country, and say no. And say no. I salute the great assembly.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0332par0108	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, there are two motions in Article 23: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of the Law Proposal No. 456 is replaced in the form of the letter "Present" in Article 23 of the framework. Mustafa Kalaycı İsmail Faruk Aksu Fahrettin Oguz Tor Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Muharrem Varlı Kamil Aydın Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 23 of the Law Proposal to the Amendment in some Laws under the Law Law Act of Mustafa Elitas, Vice President of Justice and Development Party No. 456. With all due respect. Bült Kuşoğlu Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Zekeriya Şeşel Musa Pine Ancient Durmaz Yakup Akkaya MADDE 23-18/10/2012, dated 6356, added the bell to the seventh article of Article 28 of the Unions and Community Business Convention Act. Under the protocol for co-operation with the ministry, the Ministry shall be used as part of supporting, strengthening activities of women's employment. Does the commission agree with the final motion read?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0333par0132	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0332par0133	Government?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0334par0134	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0332par0135	İstanbul MP Yakup Akkaya will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Akkaya.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0335par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on Article 23 of Law Proposal 456. I salute the council, our fellow congressmen. Dear lawmakers, this bill is an offer of law to submit to the address because with this law proposal, the part of trade unions' revenues up to 10 per cent is organised to contribute to the Labour Ministry's Women's Development Project. Why is this an offer? With this offer, we want to create a new custody environment. Dear lawmakers, because it is the Ministry of Labor that determines the dams of trade unions. It is also the Ministry of Labor that implements the union's collective contract of employment procedure. Besides, the Ministry of Labor is also reviewing trade unions' regulations. Now, with this arrangement -- there is an economic co-operation between the Ministry of Labor and the unions, and therefore -- the way to make mandatory donations to unions is being created. Even though there is an expression in the law that can be done, in the end, it is an application for trade unions to pressure unions in this sense because they have constant business with the Ministry of Labor. Thus, a separation between unions, which will also be called "union between unions" or "union" or "union" or "union" or "union union" or "extreme unions" will thus emerge. It is also a coup against the independence of the unions. Dear lawmakers also forbid the 28th article of Union Law No. 6356 (6) from giving aid to trade unions or to their members. This is a clause in the coup d'état of September 12, 1980. When Unions Act 6356 was discussed in this Parliament last semester, we asked the Republican People's Party to change this clause because according to the ILO norms, it was contrary to union organisation and union freedom, but the Justice and Development Party rejected it, the AKP rejected it, and it is not our concern. Now, I'm asking you from here: donate to a government union that can't even lend money, let alone donate to a member. It's not fair to say, "It's not fair." Also, one of the jobs of the Ministry of Labor is to increase employment, that's true; it's not right to ask the employee's money for the source. In addition, Turkey's Employment Institution has been given special tasks to increase employment. The arrangements for these activities were made in the past period, in which they could be transferred funds from the Unemployment Fund. Dear friends are 104 billion TL in the unemployment fund. So, how much was it transferred to the workers? It's about 14.3 billion. From this fund, the Fund for Unemployment, there have been many expenditures, including the GAP, which have nothing to do with employment, unemployment, and the incentives to employers. In addition, the Community Benefit Work Programme has been transferred from the unemployment benefit Fund again to the Employment and Economic Development Programme. So, once again, I'm going to ask you: why is the unemployment fund, which immediately comes to mind when it comes to incentives to the employer's infrastructure investments and expenditures of the state, not being thought of for increasing women's employment activities, but also the property given to the worker's union? Besides, many unions -- as you know -- are in a tough spot, barely standing. There are many obstacles to organizing, which have not been removed. The process of making a collective contract of employment has not been shortened. For national security reasons, strikes have been eliminated, which even a Cam strike has been postponed on the basis of national security. It's not clear where this has anything to do with national security. In addition, a month-and-a-half months ago, due to this extraordinary state of conduct, the law passed a decree against the Constitutional Court's rulings and banking services were also considered a strike ban. I mean, God forbid, if there's a yes on April 16th... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...it is clear that all strikes will be eliminated by a decree. The workers will, of course, say no. I salute the House.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0336par0150	He'll take down the union and close it with a decree.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0337par0151	Thank you, Mr. Akkaya. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of the Law Proposal No. 456 is replaced in the form of the letter "Present" in Article 23 of the framework. Sea Depboy (Admin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0338par0158	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0337par0159	Government?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0339par0160	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0337par0161	Mr. Deniz Depboy will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0340par0164	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion of our National Party of Movement on Article 23 of Law Proposal 456. I salute the Veteran Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. Precious lawmakers can be aided by the ministry of women's employment as part of supporting activities, as stated in the law clause, which states in the Unions and the collective contract of employment law. Any project to increase women's employment and give our women more space in the business world is of great value to us. Because our women have a lot of job problems in business. According to studies on problems in women's employment, 60 percent of women found that preschools and kindergartens were expensive and that they were not able to participate in the work life because they were alone in child care. Therefore, I hope that the Grandma Project, which you have strengthened by supporting the unions, will resolve this problem, but we expect you to be fair about the rights they demand from the unions. In particular, our school administrators who were expelled from their duties for not changing their unions have won their cases, but have not yet been reinstated. We'd like to remind you of that. Dear lawmakers, we all know the statistics shared by TÜİK (TİK) as a result of research into women's employment. When we look at the data of the OECD, we see that Turkey is the last in all countries in the amount of women joining the labor force. Even South Africa is in better shape than we are. The number of women left out of the labour force in Turkey for 8 million men who have not joined the labour force is around 20 million. Out of every 100 young girls between the ages of 15 and 24 years, 33 have neither been able to read nor work. The fact that the overwhelming majority of women do not participate in or participate in their work life shows that they are both a great loss of production and that our women are also economically powerless. One important problem is that our women work off the books. Unregistered women, like all other off-the-book employees, lack the assurance that social security law will provide them. They have no protection from business accidents on the off-record basis, their working hours are long, their wages are low, and these problems need to be resolved. We hope that any project that will open jobs for our women and our young ones will lead to better statistics. At the time of the expansion of jobs, not just our women, but many new graduates and jobs are expected. We will not give up on our insistence, especially when it comes to giving up the interview-based appointment system and returning to a merit-based system. Instead of interviewing, it's a much more appropriate practice for us to consider KPS scores and to conduct security investigations. In addition to teachers, the agricultural faculty, veterinary faculty, water products faculty graduates are awaiting news from the Ministry, which is under way due to the projects of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. Again -- we can count a lot more areas here -- social workers, graduates of economics and administrative sciences, graduates from many fields, looking for jobs. Again, the paramedics have problems, and we know that. In the past, there have been subcontractors for cleaning and so on, unfortunately, recently the ministry has been targeting training and experience such as nursing, medical secretary, emergency medical technicians, radiology, lab technicians, as well as subcontractorising jobs that require training and experience, which has left us with sadness and anxiety. Compromising purchases in subcontractors or contractuals will lead to a duality under the state's service. This also violates the principle of equality in the Constitution. I ask that this matter be taken into consideration, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0341par0172	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on the 24th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Article 24 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws under the following conditions. With all due respect. Bült Kuşoğlu Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Zekeriya Şeşel The Ancient Don't Stop Moses Pine Utku Cakırözer The second joke of Article 21 of Article No. 399, dated 24-22/1/1990, has been changed as follows. ▪ The use of parts of the user's needs, depending on the bulk or the need, may be used at times when annual permits, initiative or joint partnerships are appropriate. Unused permits during a contract period can be used during the next contract period. With the exception of the previous contract period, Cari's rights to the previous contract period will be reduced. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0342par0188	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0341par0189	Government?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0343par0190	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0341par0191	Mr. Musa Çam will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0344par0194	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all. We're discussing the final articles of a bag of law. This is an arrangement specifically concerning the use and use of the annual permits of contracted personnel. First of all, I'd like to point out that this clause added to the Commission is very troubling, and it's been brought to an end and it's been added to the public personnel regime, and it's a very wrong arrangement in terms of the law-making technique. This arrangement should have been referred to the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission as a separate arrangement, and should have been discussed on that commission, but a motion was met with the Plan and Budget Commission. That's why I think it's incomplete and negative. I will use the word "mistake" in private because this arrangement is full of mistakes. You are removing the annual rights of contracted personnel working at CSIafter the year they are entitled to use after the year they are due, by changing the second joke in Article 21 of Code 399. We're giving you a right that doesn't exist right now. You can call it that. Yes, in the current case, it is not possible to use warrants that were not used during a contract period in Article 399. It allows for the following year's use of earned permits. You can call it the following year. But that's where the mistake is, it's because the rights won are no longer used. Then there is an arrangement in Article 103 concerning the use of the officers' permission of State Officers Act No.657 immediately. We're adapting to each other, you might say. But the problem is lying right here. These provisions are against the law, and this amendment would be against the law. Here's the thing: either the arrangement you've brought can be used in the current case at the same time as the annual permits of civil servants and contracted staff. If the chief or the agency does not accept the officer's request for annual leave of absence, the officer or contract personnel will not be able to use this permit. For this reason, the rights of many officers or contracted personnel from the past year have been burning, not being used. With this arrangement you have now brought, you do not make an arrangement in accordance with Article 50 of the Constitution, which is based on this system. You're using the law to eliminate a constitutionally guaranteed right that contracted personnel deserve to use. I want to tell you what this right is, it's the employee's right to rest. The right to rest is clearly arranged in the second and third jokes of Article 50 of the Constitution, which states that employees are entitled to a paid permit. Concerns about how this can be used are also stated in the law. Mind you, it's not arranged that the right can be eliminated by law. Therefore, this arrangement is in violation of the 50th Amendment of our Constitution. Again, it also violates the ban on forced labor under the 18th Amendment of our Constitution. If a public servant fails to exercise his right to a paid annual leave, then he has done an unpaid amount of work for as long as the right to a year's leave as he does for each year. This arrangement, however, is not only contrary to these 2 articles, but also clearly contrary to various international contracts that we have signed according to Article 90 of our Constitution. What needs to be done is to ensure that these regulations, which violate the Constitution and international agreements, are in accordance with the Constitution and international agreements; the absolute protection of the right to permission, as with employees working in public and under contract, is to be fully and fully used, and that is the duty of the High Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the Law of Law 399 has shown us that there has been another setback in Article 562, which, in accordance with Article 91 of our Constitution, has caused many problems in the rule of law. Look, there are many major problems such as the problems of the people of 4/C, the temporary staff problem, the contractual staff problem, the recruitment of public contractors. What should be done by this great Parliament is very clear, but we have to rethink the public staff regime, which has been turned into a patched bundle, according to today's conditions, to make a comprehensive arrangement in accordance with objective, constitutional rights, in accordance with universal law. Come, don't correct this wrong with another mistake. Let's make an arrangement that is more accurate and protects the rights of employees, based on the fact that the right to rest is a universal right, that rest is one of the conditions of health care, that the annual leave is the responsibility of management to ensure that it doesn't burn and use, and that the resting officer will be more efficient in business because of the fatigue and the weariness of his work. Result: This arrangement violates the principles of the annual permit that cannot be divided. Therefore, the first sentence must be written for at least how many days. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Secondly, it is contrary to international contracts to lower the disposable annual permit, which is his last sentence, which must be removed. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0345par0207	Thank you, Mr. Pine. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion in Article 25 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 25th article (c) of Law Proposal 456 be replaced as 1/1/7/2017 (e.g. 1/1/1/2018). Mehmet Mush Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Look at your love Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0346par0218	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0345par0219	Government?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0347par0220	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0348par0221	Reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0345par0222	I'm reading the reason: The execution date of the arrangement for the establishment of the Esnaf Archaic Ark has been rescheduled. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, the votes of the substances in the second section are complete. Now, before the entire proposal is voted, I would like to call Mr. Engin Altay, the Istanbul MP, to the stand, in accordance with Article 86 of the Civil Code, to show the color of the game.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0349par0230	Not against it, sir, in favor.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0345par0231	That's what it says.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0349par0232	Wrong sir, correct me please.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0345par0233	Correction, I'd like to call Mr. Engin Altay to the stand to speak in favor. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0349par0236	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. As I have said on every occasion, the laws in the Turkish Grand National Assembly are in the interest of the nation, whether it's daily, monthly, or yearly, a part of the problems that our citizens face, as the Republican People's Party, we, as it is so far, and as the proposal we're now interviewing, we're going to use it, and we're going to use it, and we're going to say this in advance. [[Applause from CHP and AK PARTY]] On this occasion, we have once again established here as four political parties how meaningless this referendum, the Constitutional proposal, would lead to the removal of the existence of the Great National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0350par0241	That's not true.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0349par0242	The House is the People's Assembly. I would like to show in this Parliament that, in the interest of the nation, in the interests of the nation, in everything, there is a very good example of how cooperation and reconciliation can be achieved in all things, and that in a short two days, there is a lack of a basic 26-point law, with constructive warnings of inadequacy, but as a result, I would like to wish the law to be good in understanding that it will contribute to the partial solution of our farmer, our businessman, the taxpayer, the employees, some of the problems that are living. I hope it's a very good law. We'll vote on that law. We think it's a good law. [[Applause from CHP rows]] However, on this occasion, valuable MPs, I would like to make a brief point. Recently, an attack was launched on Mujdat Gezen Art Center, arson, and the attacker was arrested. The D.A. sent him to court with a warrant for arrest. Judge, the crime is very concrete... Mr. Lamb, don't look like that.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0351par0246	It's not like I'm looking.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0349par0247	Is a judge who let this man go free called a judge? An 18-year-old boy throws a tweet, criticizes the President -- perhaps in his youth -- insults him, lies in prison; the judge releases the person who torched an art center. More critically, after a few hours, there's a retrial warrant issued for the same defendant. This government, the government, look at the situation where the government has brought this to a standstill. As members of the legislature, first, the AK PARTY lawmakers should be ashamed.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0352par0248	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0349par0249	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0353par0250	What does that have to do with the MPs?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0349par0251	Well, aren't you ashamed of it?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0354par0252	No, it's a court order.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0349par0253	What do you mean, a court order?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0355par0254	Why should we be ashamed?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0349par0255	Is the court's decision to make fun of these judges? What a shame! What a shame! Well, I'm embarrassed, Mrs. Belma.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0356par0256	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0349par0257	I'm ashamed, I'm ashamed. If you're not ashamed, it's your discretion.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0357par0258	Does that look good on you? We're returning that language to you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0356par0259	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0358par0260	Judgement is independent.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0359par0261	But I can't imagine a member of a legislature who's not ashamed of the state in which the judgment has fallen in in one country. If the verdict is correct, then why is there a warrant for his arrest again?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0360par0262	Why is he taking the right to protest?
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0359par0263	Is this judgment making fun of people? One thing I've always said: The legitimacy of court decisions does not end with the judge's decision; if there is a response in the public conscience, if there is a positive response, the verdict is legitimate. But I'm not going to say that I'm not the judge or the judge that lets a convicted arsonist go free, as if he's making fun of people. Woe to you, woe to you, woe to you! [[Applause from CHP rows]] I salute the General Assembly and you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0361par0268	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0359par0269	Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0362par0270	The judge is independent, Engin.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0361par0271	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0363par0272	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0361par0273	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0363par0276	Thank you, Mr. President. I first state that we, the National Movement Party Group, have agreed to vote on all of the proposals adopted by the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0361par0279	Mr. Akçay speaking.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0363par0280	I hope that this offer will bring good fortune to our citizens, to our country, to our nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-23sit05spe0361par0282	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Congressmans, the whole proposal is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Justice and Development Party Deputy President Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitas (Second Tax Act) and Proposal of Law on Changes in Some Laws I read the result of an open vote: [[x]] Fehmi Cube Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet So the offer is accepted and legalized, for the best. Members of parliament, we will begin negotiations between the Republic of Turkey and the Central American Integration System on the Participation of the Republic of Turkey as an Outer District Observer in the Central American Integration System, in which the Agreement is appropriate, and the Foreign Commission Report (1/640). Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 260 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The establishment of Turkey's Republic of America's Institute of Entegrasyon, as well as the establishment of Turkey's Republic of Turkey, has been established in order to establish the establishment of the Institute of Entegrasyon. MADDE 1- (1) Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Central American Integration System, signed on February 13, 2015 in Guatemala, has been approved between the Republic of Turkey and the Central American Integration System. All those in favor... those who do not accept... are considered item one. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Those who accept Article 2... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I read the result of an open vote by the Dair Law Bill on the Joining the Central American Integration System as an Outer District Observer between the Republic of Turkey and the Central American Integration System: ▪ Number of votes used: 218 [[x]] Fehmi Cube Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet So the bill is accepted and legalized. Members of parliament, we will begin negotiations with the National Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is in the 3rd place, confirming the International Olive Oil and Olive Agreement. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 451 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. It's part of the law's plan to ensure that the nation's estate and the understanding of the peace of society are found. The approval of the International Olive Oil and Olive Agreement (2015) signed on September 14, 2016 on behalf of our government. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[The electronic device started voting.]] Ladies and gentlemen, by the way, Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet has been put on the stand for the first time, and I wish him the best of luck in your presence. [[Applause]] [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] I read the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Bill, that the approval of the International Olive Oil and Olive Agreement is appropriate: ▪ Number of votes used: 216 [[x]] Fehmi Cube Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet So the bill is accepted and legalized. Members of parliament, since there is no other work on our agenda, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (February 28th 2017) to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Good night, have a good holiday.
