tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 90th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Bursa MP Bennur Karaburun, who wants to speak on the occasion of the week of the disabled. Here you go, Mr. Karaburun.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0002par0006	Mr. President, we told you last year, that doesn't suit you. We're here to receive an automatic lift from the House...
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0001par0007	Let's take a look at it, hopefully, whatever's the best thing to do.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0003par0008	I swear, Mr. President, I've been a congressman for six years, and we've said that every year.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0001par0009	Mr. Karaburun, please, sir.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0004par0013	As-salaam alaikum. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on your Berat Night with my deepest feelings, so that all your prayers in the name of God may be answered. While disability has not been on the agenda until fifteen years ago in Turkey, it has become the basis of civil service, of human understanding, of development, as well as the AK PARTY governments that began in 2002. In 2002, the disabled state was perhaps the first to be dealt with. In 2005, under the leadership of Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, for the first time in Turkey, work began to ensure equal opportunities for the disabled, education, health, employment. In addition to other legislation related to the implementation of the Law on the disabled, a 1,500-point disabled law has been established, and, of course, most importantly, discrimination has been banned. It was a period of mentality in the eyes of the state, no matter where it came from. Since it has been established, the AK PARTY has become a party in all its studies that internalises the disabled, embraces the problems of the disabled, and incorporates the disabled. The United Nations Development Programme was part of the 2013 Human Development Report, which included Turkey as the 9th country to close the human development gap. With a social change of consciousness and a transformation of mentality, this situation is becoming more and more evident on the country's sath every day. At the point where we're here today, in today's Turkey, in order to make it even better, we're reorganizing our laws, our legislation for the disabled, and we're shaping our work in this minival. The week of the disabled is celebrated every year between May 10th and May 16th in countries which have been a member of the United Nations since 1982 and in our country. As the Justice and Development Party, we believe that the state exists for the sake of the nation, and that the welfare of the nation can take place with a society where each community can have a say in its own behalf and have access to service. Our mission as an EC PARTY is to remove obstacles to the use of education, health care, rehabilitation and employment services in the first place. As a result of our collaborative work with every part of society, important figures have been reached in all areas that our disabled need today. This is why our country is leading the world in terms of disability rights. We have purposed to provide care and protection for the disabled for social and economic reasons, primarily in the family environment, and care and protection services for those who cannot be cared for in the family. We believe that our support for families will ease the burden of the problem in all areas and will make life easier. For him, we view the family as a unit of solutions in disabled services, as in other areas of service. It is no doubt possible for us to achieve quality in our family-oriented disability services with the fulfillment of the transformation of mentalism and increased awareness. The parliamentary research commission on the cause and consequences of the celiac disease has been seen to be a move in line with the importance of the disease, with the joint motion of the four political parties in parliament at the Grand Assembly of Turkey. As a member of our great Parliament, I am deeply pleased to observe that all arrangements and proposals brought to our House for the disabled are supported by all parties in the House. In that sense, I would like to thank the AK PARTY, on behalf of the celiac patients and all the disabled, for their sensitivity and sensitivity to the political party's deputy leaders in parliament. Investigating celiac disease, which has become a social issue, has been promising for all our citizens affected by this disease. For the disabled, we all have a lot of work to do. We are aware of how important our role in the field of disability is. It is our greatest incentive as an EC PARTY to live up to the expectations of our disabled ones, to serve them beyond their expectations. Therefore, we focus on pioneering efforts to motivate all of our institutions and support the work of civil society.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0005par0022	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0004par0023	In 156 countries of the United Nations, the week of the disabled, which happens on the same dates, wishes that the week of the disabled would be a blessing for our disabled, and I would love to greet all of our disableds, and finally, I would like to convey my message that being disabled is not an obstacle in any area of life; you can do anything, you can reach any area. With the goal of implementing the culture of living with the disabled, to promote it, to share the days when our differences enriche, I respectfully salute our great Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0005par0026	Thank you, Mr. Karaburun. It belongs to İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan, who wants to talk about freedom of speech, meeting and demonstration. Mr. Dogan, come in. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0006par0032	Mr. President, before I start speaking, I wish our country's disabled citizens would live in an uninterrupted world without obstacles. Mr. President, we all see that Turkey's overall situation has come to a rather alarming level. In this period, when the economy is getting worse and worse, when it sees the highest level of unemployment, the ruling authorities continue to continue to make the same mistakes, rather than to learn from their mistakes. In particular after the June 7th elections, the process, which began with the revampment of elections, which began in violation of the Constitution, was crowned with a controversial referendum on legal arrest of our party's representatives and an unequivocally referendum on legitimacy. In this process, it is increasingly deepening that the co-Chairs of this country's third-largest party are being held hostage in the prisons of Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ, while the adoption of our Co-Chair, Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ, and Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan, in violation of the law. Those who saw the July 15 coup attempt as the grace of Allah, who in unprecedented turn off tens of thousands of public workers in the State of Emergency decrees in one night, who have shut down dozens of TV channels and media organs without any grounds, who have been locked in the doors of the associations, who have suffered hundreds of thousands of victims. Now, I'd like to tell you about two workers who were employed by the State of Emergency law. Nuriya Gülmen and Semih Özakça. Academia Nuriya Gülmen and Semih Özakça have been on hunger strike for sixty-three days in order to get their jobs back and defend themselves with a fair trial. Doctors say the next phase is the final phase. We can't hear a word from government officials, from the Minister of Justice, from the Minister of Health. Aren't these people citizens of this country, citizens of this country? Why are you guys so quiet? I'll try to tell you a little bit about what happened to you when you were fired under a decree of law. For one thing, when you're released under a decree of law, you no longer have health insurance, they don't examine you when you go to any health care institution. You can no longer work in any public institution or indirectly or directly at a semi-public institution. You don't have a chance to go abroad and look for work, because your current passport is invalid, and you're not being given a tourist passport. You can't benefit from unemployment, you can't get any help, you're condemning these people and their families they're supposed to take care of to hunger. The process, which is already a series of right violations, has been crowned for reasons such as not suing, not arguing, not liking that chancellor, being a victim of this colleague's ambition, being a socialist, being a Democrat, being a flame, being an opponent. Now, our dear friends on Yüksel Street say: "You have condemned us to hunger. The situation is so clear, my friends. Now, from here, what should these people do, Mr. Lawmakers? Is it seeking rights to leave them to die in that sense? With another example, I'd like to inform you again, dear lawmakers. I went to my class, and there was a memorial program in front of Pir Seyit Reza's memorial about the massacre of Dersim, and I learned this. The person you appointed as trustee, the governor, works as a detective; determines the meetings and demonstrations by tire, freedom, democracy, peace-seeking meetings, and you come to this area, you invade it, I fine you. He says, and people are restricted to the use of their smallest democratic rights, which is unacceptable. And there's a second thing, a father who's been waiting for the body of his child for seventy-six days. In my lesson, Pir Seyit lays before Reza's memorial, waiting for his son's body. No matter what his son is fighting, no matter what he's fighting, whether he's democratic or not, he's entitled to the body of a father's dead son, my friends. Where's Turkey going? It's unacceptable, the state can't lose its mind this way; there's a great weakness, it's not going well. In that sense, the government... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We have to warn the government's powers, the governor of this place, folks.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0007par0040	Finish up, please.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0006par0041	We're going through a really bad process, it's not something to accept. How can a father's very human request not be fulfilled? What happened to this kid? If he was killed in action, where's his body? These need to be answered. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0007par0044	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. The third non-responsored statement belongs to Bursa MP Lale Karbük, who asked for a comment on the changing Special Homes Charter. Mr. Karbük, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0008par0049	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I congratulate the Berat candle of the entire Islamic world and wish it to be a blessing. Not long ago, we had great problems with students, housing, housing; we lived in Karaman, we lived in Aladağ, we lived in İzmir, we lived in the press, some of them didn't reflect, some of them didn't. We also know that in a country, the government has to provide education, housing, protection of children, including the actual duties and responsibility of the state. Control is also extremely important here. In cases of rape in the past, in the fire, in all cases, we always said that at the middle school level, real and legal people cannot open a home. We simply stated that the state should open it. And if they did, we said they were illegal, but we came today, prepared and published regulations that would legalize what we call illegal practices. We want to say that this is extremely wrong, and we've always said it, and we'll keep saying it. Now, if we look at the regulations, with the change made by the Ministry of National Education in the Special Student Homes regulations, the private home can now be opened for middle school students. This new regulation legalizes illegal private student dorms and boarding houses for middle school students with many problems, valued MPs. A new arrangement was made and replaced by the Special Student Housing Services Administration, which was then published in the newspaper 6/5/2017, which was dated a few days ago. With this published regulation, the 2004 Special Student Homes Convention was unfortunately lifted. According to this, real and legal individuals are allowed to open a home at a secondary school level. If you look at the details, there are at least 40 students for the opening of private dorms, 30 for the boarding house, 30 for the apartment and 10 students for the studio. Now, I'd like to point out that there are also asylums at secondary schools under the name of temporary housing in institutions: higher education students are also allowed to live in upper secondary schools, which is very wrong, pedagogically damaging. Again, the control of the institutions will be conducted by the branch manager and the director of the official secondary school, the vice principal of the district education director or branch manager. So, in fact, the inspectors' control clearance is also kept here. It's not right to allow real and corporate people to open their homes at a middle school level. We've seen irreparable damage in the past, and we can see it from now on, and I want to make that clear. Homes that will be opened at a secondary school level must be run and inspected by the Ministry of National Education. At the same time, the right to control these institutions is reserved, he says. But in institutions where the financial inspectors do not supervise, political advocacy can be prominent, and abuses can be easily covered. You're also authorizing real and corporate people to open a home, a boarding house, and a studio with 10 students. That means that all the real and corporate people who rent an apartment will be able to open these houses, and the abuse cases will increase in such institutions. In Karaman, in Aladağ, in İzmir, all the public had a conscience, and we've said it over and over and over again. The Ministry of National Education is currently able to serve only 1 per cent of middle school students in terms of housing, for some reason shutting down all boarding elementary schools; it has dropped to 37.6 per cent, a 67 per cent reduction. I mean, there's really no way to know what that means, there's really no way to understand why it's done that way. Of course, dorms have become a political home, where the goal is clear. When we say, "No state will not make a state, we will leave it to the foundations." There is a insistence. So the goal is not to provide housing for children, but to shape children politically? If housing was the goal, the children's maximum benefit would be considered, and the practice would not continue.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0009par0058	Please complete it and you'll be there in a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0008par0060	I'd like to point out that no one, as mothers, as fathers, as citizens of this country, would want the bad things that have happened again. That's why you have to see the danger here. When we call them illegals in these dorms, now that they're legal, it's a real situation, it's a real reality story, and I want to make it clear once again that it's wrong. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0009par0063	Thank you, Mr. Carbage. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, World week is this week. Our disabled brothers and sisters, who have been exemplary and tirelessly exemplary in the struggle they have fought all over the world and in our country, are building their future in a much more meaningful way today with increasing socioeconomic standards and improvements towards solving all kinds of problems. Our efforts, especially our Parliament, our government, and state institutions, continue today, as they always have, to live their own lives without problems. We work with them in order to maintain a life of human dignity, with every kind of awareness work, all kinds of activities, all of which are based on laws and institutionalization, and the rights of our citizens as a whole with law, education and employment. Our desire to minimize the risks facing our brothers and sisters and follow a protective and guiding national policy comes at the top of our most important duties. It is also one of our main tasks to ensure that the sensitivity is needed in every area so that they can be active as independent individuals in all areas of social life. In this sense, I congratulate all disabled citizens of our country on this meaningful day, my sincerest greetings and compliments on the idea of a world that they should always get what they deserve. Besides, tonight is the night of the blessed Berat, which is extremely important to the Islamic world. I bless your night, and wish that the Zodiac be the cause of mankind's brotherhood, peace, and the redemption of all men, forgiveness, and sins. With our prayers and wishes, I celebrate once again this blessed night of all the faithful. Now, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to the lawmakers who entered the system, to our first 15 friends, according to the Civil Code 60. Mr. Özdemir, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0010par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. The special student housing services regulations, published last week, also opened the way for students to face more unsafe conditions, new abuses. Real and legal individuals were granted the right to open a dwelling, pension, apartment, and studio apartment at a secondary school and higher education level, while the Ministry's personal preferences were left to control. The way for middle school and university students to stay in the same room was opened under the name temporary housing. In the safe and healthy conditions of the students, the current political authority, which does not consciously meet the need for housing and housing, is now at the mercy of what congregation? I address all families from here: Please see who is entrusted to the safety of our children and show your reaction to this arrangement. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0011par0077	In place of Mr. Topal, come in, Mr. Black Sea.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0012par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. First, may our lamp be blessed and our prayers be answered. For Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the great leader, and his precious mother, Zübeyde Hanim, and his wife, and his spiritual daughter, I curse them with a terrible curse. On this day, which means so much to us, we visited our Great Leader with our mothers from Sinop. With the 93-year-old Ayşe Genal, 84-year-old Hasibe Aqaq and 45 mothers who arrived with the Women's Assembly of the City Council of Sinop, we thanked her. Our mothers also remembered Mrs. Zübeyde, the mother of the Turkish nation, who gave us Ataturk, and I thank them all. I ask God's mercy to the eternal mothers of our lawmakers under this sacred roof, the mothers of the living, the mothers of the martyrs, and if you'll allow me, I kiss them by the hands of my own mother. I'm already celebrating Mother's Day for our entire nation. I bow before our mothers, who come from Sinop, who are now guests of the General Assembly, respectfully and respectfully.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0013par0083	Thank you, Mr. Black Sea. And we, the Court of Parliament, offer our deepest respect and respect to all our mothers from Sinop. We celebrate Mother's Day and kiss every mother's hand. Mr. White Star, please.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0014par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. The Sivas teacher's house, which serves my Sivas brothers, who have two wedding halls in Sivas, in which everyone can easily reach them, has been renovated at a cost of more than $500,000 recently. Now, what changed and decided to move the teacher's house somewhere else? If that was your intention, then why did you spend so much money? Do you also realize that you've earned the right to throw away this money, which is the right of an unfinished orphan? Although you've shown by your practices that it's not important for you to have a slave right, or else it's much more important to make some of your followers rich. From here, I offer my regards to Mr. Minister of National Education to make a public statement and apologize and return from this error immediately.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0015par0093	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0016par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, minimum wage is below the age of starvation. Therefore, our citizens who work for minimum wage are victims. When will this sacrifice of our citizens who work for this minimum wage be removed? To ignore the disabled is to ignore humanity. I'm celebrating the week of the disabled. However, in public institutions and private workplaces, instead of disabled persons who should be employed under the law, they are employed. This leads to the victimization of our disabled citizens. The employment area is not open to the disabled because of the increasing number of disabled under the law. We've made an offer to the disabled to open their employment -- law-related -- waiting for that to be increased, giving them greetings and regards.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0017par0098	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0018par0100	Dear friends, there has been a mysterious excavation going on for six months in Mersin. The dig site is protected by Special Ops teams and long-barreled weapons, not even lawmakers are allowed in the area. The AKP government couldn't answer the question motion I gave on the matter, and the application I submitted under the Information Information Act has been said to have been removed only parts of the test so far. That's not believable. What's hiding from the public? What are they looking for at this dig site? What was really found? Is it true that the Dakyanus treasure from the Roman era, worth millions of dollars, has been taken abroad? Is it true that there's a priceless pearl? Is it true that a former AKP MP was following the dig on behalf of the President? These allegations must be answered immediately by the AKP government. Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0019par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I congratulate our MPs and our beloved nation on the night of Berat, and call upon the Lord God to bless them. As it is known, the unacceptable decision of the PKK, which the United States administration announced yesterday to give heavy arms support to the Syrian arm YPG terrorist organisation shows that the devastating chaos strategy, which has been fueling ethnic and religious conflicts in the region since the United States, continues. Holding a business with terrorist organizations under the name of the so-called counterterrorism is an approach that serves to increase terrorism and chaos in our region, not peace. We want peace in our territory. And by supporting terrorist organizations, peace can't be built, terrorism can't be wiped out by terror. This wrong decision by the U.S. government to increase blood and tears in our region, fuel conflict...
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0020par0111	Mr. Benli...
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0021par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a promise on the occasion of the week of the disabled. In the end, the fact that each of us is a disabled candidate shows that this matter is vital. After all, we're all different, we all have different barriers, and we can only overcome those obstacles by fighting them together. In order to overcome any obstacle, the EC PARTY completely changed its view of the disabled, making social policies in this way with a right-axis understanding, not help, especially the Law on the disabled in 2005. For the first time, such studies as home care and home health care have allowed the disabled to have equal opportunities in education, but we must continue to fight together in order to get more results. We know that if we stick together, there's nothing we can't get past. Whatever the obstacle, we can get everyone to exercise their rights, as long as we remove the obstacles in their hearts...
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0020par0116	Thank you. Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0022par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. I congratulate our people on the night of Berat, and wish them good fortune. The province of Niğde is being promised especially during election times, but the necessary support is not given by the government. Niğde has been excluded from the European Union's Rural Development Project; it has once been disabled even in a project related to Niğde agriculture. The main source of income, Nigde, is produced in potatoes, apples, and cabbage, in the first round of the country. The Ministry of Customs and Trade has not taken the province of Niğde into the cities concerning the spread of licensed storage for the development of logistical infrastructure in the trade of vegetables and fruit. The cooling units, the cold air tanks, the dryer-cleaning-packing units, and the equipment for these should include Niğde in the cities in which the pilot is selected for the purchase of the equipment. In this sense, Niğde is ignored in the policies imposed by the government, and in this context, it is unclaimed.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0023par0122	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0024par0124	Mr. President, it's a pleasure to have the legal process initiated by a national broadcaster, those who slander Ataturk (Ataturk) and his spirituality in a program called "indecency of the deep." But while thousands of people are in prison, on hunger strike, I'd like to ask Mustafa Armazan, who writes books on skin, why no action has been done all this time. I wonder why those who turn their ears to Ensar, who close their eyes to the real ones, say nothing about these insults against the founder of our country, the Great Leader Ataturk. The order that feeds, protects, protects, and protects those who support them will be destroyed. Whoever confuses historianism with deception will be revealed by whomever gets their power. My speech here lasts for minutes, but our struggle will last for centuries. Whatever their intentions, they will not destroy our republic and Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0023par0127	Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0025par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Bigelispor will face Altay in Antalya on Sunday (May 14th) at the 3rd League Play-Off Final and fight to ascend to the 2nd League. Nearly 20,000 fans are expected to go to Antalya that day, but the fan thinks, "How do I get to Antalya, 610km away?" We have Genghis Topel Airport in Kopeeli, but only three days a week, we have flights to Tripoli. There are no demands all the time. It's called demand. Here's a request. I am speaking to Ahmet Arslan, Minister of Yakeleli, Minister of Fikri Il and Transport: Come, let us arrange flights between Antalya and İzmite at the weekend. Let the numerous openings for the airport be useful now. It's as easy for you to snap your fingers. Let's make this a contribution to our admirer, who has fallen in love with green and black colors. I call again to the ministers: Let the championship come this year, let's celebrate together in Fethiye.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0023par0134	We wish Bigelispor well. Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0026par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. Veysel Karani Week, the week of the disabled and the night of the Berat, we understand at the same time. The Night of Judgement is a special night in which we take refuge in the mercy and forgiveness of God the Most High, and purify our hearts with repentance. Once again, we understand that it is possible for us to receive our blessings in the spiritual climate of this blessed night by listening to the divine message of our Lord. By reflecting moral virtues into our lives. O soul, do not fall for great sins. They are like faults in the forgiveness of God. And forgive not yourself as thou askest forgiveness of Allah and forgive not others, as He enjoineth. Configure the most beautiful forgiveness when it's strong. Forgiveness of the wrong-doers is a sin for the wrong-doers. Acquittalism is the real thing. Innocence is guilt. The original sin is out of the question. Every child is born innocent. Sin is personal. It's a sin to believe that you can't be forgiven.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0027par0141	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0028par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Justice Minister: İstanbul Ataköyde Omer Fatih Ozturkler, 17 years old, was involved in a fight with Mert Zulfikar and his group of friends, and he was stabbed to death in the heart as a result of the incident. The suspected murderer, Mert Zulfikar, was said to have been the nephew of a man who recently served as a minister, using the financial and political power of his family -- who has been involved in the incident -- who has fled abroad and has not been found in the past two years. However, his parents are also missing. Now, I ask you, is it possible to talk about law in a country if everyone in a country who is rich and knows can kill whoever they want and then escape from the country?
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0029par0146	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0030par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. In prisons, there are 1,144 patients who are heavily injured. These sick prisoners receive shameful treatments that violate many tortures and honors of humanity. The sick prisoners cannot stay in the prison. While they are still in prison, İstanbul Metropolitan Mayor Kadir Topbaş. His son-in-law Ömer Faruk Kavurmakcı, who is alleged to be one of the biggest financiers of the city, the court on duty has decided that he will be released for 16 years. This decision has made their consciences sad. The practice of medicine has also suffered deep injuries during the time of justice and judgment. For a person, justice is not for a person. If the person mentioned has a serious medical condition, amenna. Other prisoners should also be considered health problems. If there's no more trust in justice and forensic medicine in one country, we're at the end of the line. I demand that the power that corrupts justice... removes its hand from my profession of medicine.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0029par0150	Thank you. Just now, Mr. Hurriyet, we've wished Bigelispor the same success, and we must wish the rival team, Altay, the same success.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0031par0154	Of course.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0029par0155	We wish all teams the best. Gentlemanly, sportingly, I hope for the best...
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0032par0156	Good luck to the president, Sivasspor.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0029par0157	We don't forget about Sivasspor. We wish all our teams a gentlemen's struggle and success, provided we bring the quality of sports to all the teams, all the teams who are fighting for it. Mr. Ridge, here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0033par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. In the İzmir Karaburun Peninsula, about 4 million square metres, we want it to be known that we will not allow to desecrate all the single-projected fish farms, civil society organisations, city councils while our seas, our shores, the destruction of nature, and the destruction of the finished tourism, to be known that despite the public, we will not allow the desecration of the peninsula. We'd like the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism to review this decision, and we'd like another area to be identified, and we'd like this fish farm to be built in a different area. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0034par0164	Finally, Mr. Turkmen, please.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0035par0166	Thank you, Mayor. For the past two years, Adana has been a major city in women's murders, but in Turkey in the last 15 years, it is a statistical fact that women's murders have increased. As a country that has signed the CEDAW Convention and the Istanbul Convention, Turkey has almost encouraged women's murders, not only to develop more policies in the sense of preventing women's killings, but also to prevent them from developing them. I'd like to invite the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0036par0169	Thank you, Mr. Turkmen. Now, I'm going to make a two-minute commitment to the members of the group who entered the system. Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0037par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, congratulations on the Berat Night of all our MPs, our nation and the Turkish-Islam world. It's handicapped week. Yesterday, I made my assessment of the importance of the matter, and today we're going to have a motion to conduct a parliamentary investigation into the importance of the matter. In the interest of investigating the problems of disabled citizens, we would like to ask the General Assembly for support of our research motion on this matter. Mr. President, yesterday President of the United States Donald Trump approved the aid of heavy machine guns and armoured vehicles to the terrorist organization YPG, prior to Operation Rakka. This is inadmissible for us in any way, and incompatible with Allied law. This will affect the security of Turkey and the region. Of course, the mistake is that the United States of America is operating with the YPG. In Syria, that understanding will not make the solution difficult or easy. A few days ago, a special television channel had some assessments of our republic's founder, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, that were offensive and incompatible with historical facts. And we find them inadmissible in any way, and we condemn them. It is a great pleasure that the People's Attorney's Office of Copperköy has launched two investigations on the matter. We have to take care of our common values. The media also has an obligation to act responsibly. We wish that RTÜK would not allow such unrealistic statements. This week, again, Dolphin Emre Cultural and Art Week. Jonah Emre, one of the greatest scholars in Islamic history, was born in 1240, and died in 1320. The humble Jonah Emre who served at Haci Bektas.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0038par0180	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0037par0181	... Noble, strange, rich, poor, religiously counted people equally. The belief system that he lives and lives in is a system of grief that seeks to discover and bring about the secrets of man and world by reaching the very essence of the Quran. First of all, Jonah is an important name for the idea of condescension. Jonah was so moved by the desire of his own soul that he erased his existence from his poetry and left no definite knowledge of his identity. It is known that Jonah is in love with Emre Hakk. Jonah had never been a subject of controversy in the public's eyes from his time to his present identity; he was a Turkish speaker of his comments and the way he spoke them. So there's no harm in saying that Yunus had lived in the Turkish language, the man of the heart, the nightingale of love. Thus, the people adopted him and loved him as a man of common faith and language, a friend of justice and people. I ask His Holiness for His mercy.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0038par0182	Thank you. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0039par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. Today we celebrate the Night of the Berat of all Muslims. At the same time, we have entered the week of the disabled, and our citizens have many problems. Unfortunately, while right-based policies are being followed in many countries to address these problems, a law has been passed in our country, yes, in 2005, but there are no proper regulations and their needs are being considered as aid. I would like to point out that this is a serious discrimination and that we wish our disabled citizens a future without barriers, that they are already disabled by all these obstacles created. At the same time, it is also necessary to say that war creates new disableds, jobs create new disableds, lack of control in traffic creates new disableds, which means disability is not only a congenital condition, it is also a preventable condition, which should be considered. I'd like to show you a picture of this week of the disabled. He has been arrested as part of the investigation into Seyfollah Çakmak and has been in prison for nine months. He has two children with severe disability, and these children have been cut off from their disability pensions. Therefore, before the House celebrates certain things, it should really be their goal not to approach its citizens, especially the authorities, states, with a sense of vengeance.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0040par0190	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0039par0191	Their father may be being investigated, he may be on trial, in fact, according to the purity of innocence, in fact, all those who continue to judge are innocent, and I'd like to point out first, but other than that, children can't be punished because of their fathers, because of their husbands, because of their wives, or because of their wives. There's also the principle of the individuality of crimes. His wife says: "I am a housewife, I have no social security. We spent almost 18 years of marriage in hospitals. Because of her weight, I can't lift her, I can't even wash her. Can someone tell me what to do? Yes, someone tell me what to do with the week of the disabled. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0040par0193	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0041par0196	Thank you, Mr. President. I celebrate the Berat Kandili of the entire Islamic world. Mr. President, it's handicapped week. It is clear that social sensitivity to this issue must be strengthened in order to address the problems of our disabled citizens. The most important problem facing a disabled person is not that person's obstacle, but that society has misunderstandings and prejudices about the disabled, lack of opportunities for it, an inequality of opportunity among other people. It is not possible for a society to be called an advanced society if it cannot maintain its disabled and elderly citizens, if it cannot provide the necessary support. It is our humanitarian and conscientious duty to share in their problems by taking them in order to solve the problems of all disabled citizens and ensure that they receive equal service. In that sense, I salute all disabled citizens with respect and love. The Republican People's Party has a group proposal today to investigate the problems of our disabled citizens and find solutions. I hope and hope that both the Republican People's Party and the other opposition parties will accept the same motions and we will all take measures that will allow our disabled citizens to breathe. Mr. President, today is the 149th anniversary of the District Attorney. Mr. Zerrin Güngör, the Chief Prosecutor, spoke today, using very clear statements of how a judicial body came under the command of politics. Mr. Zerrin Güngör is the president of a court tasked with overseeing the administration. The main task of the prosecution is to oversee the operations and actions of the administration. Today, Mr. Zerrin Güngör, president of the State's Office, has announced the results of the referendum declared on April 16th -- in our view, with an illegal unsealed vote.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0042par0202	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0041par0203	...with the results of the April 16th referendum, the principle of dissolution of forces has been made even more evident. In fact, we're not surprised to understand because he spoke like the owner's voice today, the Chief Prosecutor. He gave a very typical example of how to separate from the principle of a state of law by saying that the extraordinary declaration of the state and the purpose of the KHK are to protect democracy, not to impose any restrictions on people's rights and freedoms except for the purpose. I suggest to the Chief Prosecutor that he observe a hunger strike on Yüksel Street, which is just over 60 days away from the District Attorney's office.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0042par0205	Complete.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0041par0206	Would he like to see the problems that these academics, who have been fired and do not know why, are facing a hunger strike, Mr. Chief Prosecutor? Don't they want to have a conscience? Wouldn't he want to stop these people from getting fired unfairly? Does this sound like the president of a court? What kind of D.A. is he? The Chief Public Prosecutor has entered politics today; he has taken off his robe, entered politics. I'm condemning him, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0042par0207	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0043par0209	Mr. President, thank you. Congratulations on the night of Berat of the Islamic world, and I wish it to be a blessing. It's a gateway of hope. Happy are those who pass by. The founder of the Republic of Turkey, Ataturk, who has nothing to do with history, science, humanity, and has nothing to do with gossip or gossip, and I strongly condemn this attitude. Ataturk is the common value of all of us, the republic is the common value of all of us. There's no debate about that in society. I don't find it appropriate to engage in such talks, and I'd like to inform you on this occasion. It's handicapped week. About 10 per cent of Turkey's society is known as disabled. People may be disabled, but their survival as free individuals with personality integrity is vital to them and society. In the traditional world, it's solved to some extent by social solidarity, but in the modern world, the state is the main actor in the business, and it has to do its part. THE AK PARTY has done a lot of important things since 2002, in terms of social rights, social rights, and roles that this state should have played against the disabled, and more importantly, I think we all know the human anecdote.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0044par0214	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0043par0215	These may not be enough, but the direction is that the government will continue to act within the framework of social demands and needs in order to carry out its role. It's Dolphin Emre Week. One day, I was driving down the road and I picked up a passenger -- I don't know his name, I don't know his job -- talking about property. I said, who owns the property, who owns it first? I do not know your name, your guess, your job, and neither do I lie, nor do I lie, nor do I lie. he completed it. Jonah Emre lives, lives in the collective memory and life of this community. I'd like to point out that it's Dolphin Emre Week. To the peace of Syria, and to the tears of the people there, that America should give heavy weapons to the YPG.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0045par0219	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0043par0220	I'd like to inform you on this occasion that you're going to have an effect on us. Such should not be the means of Syria's policies, which are concerned about the integrity of the land and the welfare of the people there. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0045par0222	Thank you. Let's move on to the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to find and resolve the problems of corn producers in the Çukurova region, which most of Turkey's corn production is covered, we would like the Constitution to open and propose that Parliamental research be opened on the basis of Articles 104, and 105, in accordance with Articles of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[Adana]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Sakarya]] 10) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 12) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Isparta]] [[Antalya]] [[Mughle]] 16) Ekmeleddin Mehmet İhsanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[Samsun]] 19) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Erzurum]] 27 percent of the world's corn is used for human feeding, and 73 percent are used as animal feed. In developing countries, the use of corn is 46 percent animal feeding, 54 percent human feeding, and 54 percent industrial raw material. In developed countries, this rate is 90% animal feeding, 10% human feeding and 10% industrial raw material. Egypt is second in the world to produce grains after wheat. Corn is a grain plant that is used in many fields as animal food and human food, and is the most produced in our country after wheat and barley. The corn produced almost everywhere in our country has been widely grown only in the Black Sea region until recently, but since the 1980s, the Second Product Project, especially conducted by the Ministry of Agriculture, has acquired prevalence in our southern regions. Today, in Turkey, about 6.4 million tonnes of corn production, preparation of the field, crop and harvest, shipping, storage, assessment of industry, and until we reach the final consumer, millions of our people have become privileged in the agricultural sector, which has eaten bread and given serious value to the economy. According to the Earth's Harvest Office (TMO), 1 million 40,000 tonnes of corn were produced in 1970, when production records began to be kept. By 2014, 5,950,000 tonnes of corn were produced from 658 thousand hectares. This year, 6.4 million tonnes of corn were produced in 680,000 hectares of corn. Corn production is concentrated in the eastern Mediterranean, especially in Adana and Mersin. In 2012-2013, Adana produced 682.5,000 tonnes of corn, while Mersin produced 128.5,000 tonnes. More than 1 million tonnes of Adana's production in 2005-2006, and the effects of corn agriculture in the region, given the fact that Mersin's production is 348 thousand tonnes. That's why it's essential that the Ministry, in its highest-level determination of agricultural policies, monitors the world markets and carefully edits the supply-request balance in corn, planning. This balance is not only important for farmers, but also for industry workers, who suffer from cost fluctuations. Disappointing that the premium support for the past few years has been too poor, the manufacturer continues to worry about the too late explanation of the price of intervention, the opening of customs doors during harvests, and the timeless and unnecessary market intervention of TMOs. Our farmers are concerned about TMO's supply of goods against them again, and the cost of goods is too late, and they can't see the way. In Egypt, the second product, especially in Egypt, has been low efficiency for years because of disease and poor climate conditions in Çukurova. In addition to these negativeities, the poor prices leave our farmer in great distress and ruin. The biggest problem of farmers and especially corn producers is the height and instability of their cost. In particular, the fertilizer is processed at the highest price in the farmer's time of use and bends the back of the farmer. The higher cost of fuel, another entry, prevents tractors and fields from processing. Despite the decline of oil prices around the world, fuel prices in our country do not drop and fall comically, making it a subject that no citizen understands. All farmers take loans from banks by mortgaged their fields so they can plant their fields. The fact that banks have a large number of executive fields is a very painful sign of this, as the media has seen in recent years. As a result, we propose the establishment of a parliamentary research commission to meet the measures and practices that should be taken, in order to determine and resolve the problems of corn producers in the region of Çukurova, which is most of Turkey's corn production. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and The Constitution shall be opened and offered to investigate the Parliament under Articles 104,4,5,5, and 105 of which the Supreme Assembly of Turkey has taken place in accordance with Articles 98, 98,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0. [[Adana]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Sakarya]] 10) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Erzurum]] 13) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Isparta]] [[Antalya]] [[Mughle]] 17) Ekmeleddin Mehmet İhsanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[Samsun]] 20) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] After the crash of the Russian fighter, Russia's embargo on Turkish agricultural products affected our country and producers who exported vegetables and fruits. Turkey is among the top 10 countries in the world in the production of citrus. In the Çukurova region, about 70 per cent of the total citrus production in our country is produced. 95 percent of the grapefruit, 85 percent of the lemon, 65 percent of the orange and 75 percent of the tangerine grow in this region. Turkey, which covers 3 per cent of the world's citrus production, produces 50 per cent of the citrus production of oranges. In view of the foreign trade of oranges, 32 per cent of the total citrus produced in our country is exported. Half of Turkey's annual exports of fruits and vegetables are citrus. The highest share of exports is 42 percent lemon. In total citrus exports, tangerine has 27 per cent, orange has 18 per cent, grapefruit has 13 per cent share. The countries where Turkey exports most in oranges and lemons are Russia, Ukraine, Romania and Saudi Arabia. These countries are followed by countries of the European Union. In tangerine, Ukraine, Britain, Russia, Saudi Arabia and Eastern Europe and the European Union are the most exported countries of Russia, Britain, Romania, Poland and the European Union. As of 2014, about 1,77,000 tonnes of citrus production are exported and about $1 billion in revenues are produced in Adana. Orange production will not be ruled out as a very important export product for Turkey and Adana, with the impact of Adana's economy. At the beginning of the 2015-2016 citrus production season, crisis producers with Russia have been shocked. 30 percent of the production has yet to be harvested. Most of the harvested goods are waiting for exports in the packaging warehouses. An important part of production is still in the field. In addition to the victims of the manufacturers, hundreds of thousands of workers working in harvest labor and packaging are unable to go to work, which will create social problems. Because of problems in exports, the producers face collection difficulties, the removal of contracts that have been made, the demand for refunds of checks will cause farmers who are already in debt to experience difficulties in production in the coming years. It is also unlikely that the current markets will be replaced by other markets soon. First, in order to increase consumption in the domestic market, the Hal Act must be relaxed, public spotlights published, and the consumption of citrus in public institutions must be encouraged. These short-term measures will give the manufacturers some comfort. As a result, almost all of our citrus-producing citizens, who produce fruits and vegetables, have suffered damage and are currently seeking help and solutions from the government. Because of the crisis with Russia, we propose the establishment of a parliamentary research commission to determine the problems of the narciatrist manufacturers, to address the problems that have been detected and prevent potential victims, and to meet the measures and practices that need to be carried out accordingly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and Investigation of the Constitution of the 98th, Turkey's Grand National Assembly of the National Assembly, 104 and 105th Articles to determine the problems in the animal industry and to conduct the necessary research on the height of the price of red meat, the implementation of measures and practices that need to be carried out accordingly. [[Adana]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] 5) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Sakarya]] 10) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Erzurum]] 13) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Isparta]] [[Antalya]] [[Mughle]] 17) Ekmeleddin Mehmet İhsanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[Samsun]] 20) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] Animalism is one of the major sectors of the overall economy in many countries, especially developed countries. In Turkey, an important part of the population in agriculture, in other words, about 70 per cent of agricultural enterprises, are not able to contribute to the country's economies, although they provide for livestock. The most important indicator of this is that animalism in Turkey has about 30 per cent of the total agricultural production value. In EU countries, it is 40-50 per cent. While for many reasons, one of the most important reasons is that rather than commercial animalism, there is a livelihood. Animalism has important economic functions in both national and regional development. These may include prevention of secret unemployment in rural areas, employment in the industry and services sector, funding industrialisation and providing adequate and balanced food for the public, financing development based on self-source. Turkey's animalism has many problems, but one of its main problems is feeding and feeding. This problem has been threatening Turkey's animalism for years. The root of this problem is the production of animal plants without weighting their agriculture, and depending on the lack of meadow-mera fields. Another important problem is animal care and health problems. Unmodern stables are still at the forefront of livestock in Turkey, I'm afraid. Other problems include lack of training and technical staff and lack of organisation. In order to receive the desired efficiency of breeding animals, the breeder must be trained in care, feeding and health care, providing technical support that he needs. Today, a number of animal support (payments for food plants, equipment support, support for pregnant heifers, support for calfs, artificial seeding support, milk support, and so on). Although it seems to exist, these supports are not capable of increasing animal production. In recent years, the AKP's efforts to solve high prices of meat with the import of living animals and meat have brought animalism to a complete end. The important thing is that even though imports are not always the solution, this policy is persistently maintained, and only speculators are allowed to make money. The reason why sheep and cattle do not grow is because there are no more weeds left in the country where animals will feed. Also, when our animals can't feed on meres, they feed on bait, and when the oath is currency, the animal's nutritional cost is increasing, and prices are rising. Five years ago, the feeders were able to buy 200 pounds of food by selling 1 kg of meat, while now they are able to buy 18-20 kg of food for 1 kg of meat. Turkey's animalism must be developed by long-term policies, consistent, unchanging according to governments, rather than day-to-day policies. The policies in livestock, which are aimed at improving both agricultural structures and the growth of production, are unfortunately untraceable. It was not possible to prevent illegal animal entry into Turkey, nor to monitor animal movements within Turkey, and to put it in order. Especially from our eastern and southeast neighbors, the fact that the animal entrance was unstoppable has made a constant threat of disease. As a matter of fact, these areas are usually the starting point of serious outbreaks in Turkey. In order for animalism to be done profitablely, quality crude bait production should be taken into account, preventing the timeless, extreme, irregular use of meadows and meadows, a serious consideration of the rehabilitation of mera areas, and producer organisations will also need to gain sufficient importance in our country. As a result, with the detection and resolution of the problems of the livestock industry, we propose the establishment of the Parliamental research commission to meet the measures and practices that should be taken accordingly, in order to do the necessary research on the height of the price of red meat. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Mr. Arslan, you've entered the system, and I promise you for a minute according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0046par0408	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: Deep History magazine, which our Parliament subscribes to, is clearly quarrelling with the private lives, principles and revolutions of our Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. The editor-in-chief of the magazine, so-called historian Mustafa Armazan, has already crossed the limits of freedom of speech and expression, both in this magazine and in the TVNet channel, to our secular republic, to the members of the Liberation War, to our great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. In this case, 1) Will you end your subscription to Deep History as Parliament Speaker? 2) How many have been taken from this magazine so far, and how much has been paid for it? 3) Does Deep History magazine subscribe to institutions that depend on your presidency? When will their subscriptions end? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit01spe0047par0415	Thank you. There is a statement from the Commission for the Commission for the Review of Human Rights Commissioners and the Commission for Karma Commission Public Control Agency on the reports of 2013, 2014 and 2015 that the report is returned to the Commission in accordance with Article 88: Turkey's Grand National Assembly to National Assembly On the basis of the introduction of interest (a) to your presidency on 24/5/2016, it is required that the Office of Public Auditorship No. 289, which is still waiting to be discussed during the 79th term of the TBMM General Assembly, be evaluated with the Annual Reports 2015, 2014 and 2013, and the Commission's Commission for Review of Human Rights (5/5, 5/4, 5/3), 5/3). For the reason mentioned above, I would like to ask that the Commission Report 289 be returned to our Commission under Article 88 of the Constitutional Court of Turkey. [[İstanbul]] Commission Report 289 is returned to the Karma Commission. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit02spe0047par0001	I open the Second Session of Turkey's 90th Union of the Grand National Assembly. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Wednesday/5/2017 (now), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. A parliamentary review of the Turkish Parliament's agenda was proposed on Wednesday 10/5/2017 (now) in the General Assembly on Wednesday (August 10/37) in order to determine the measures that should be taken by disabled citizens, the main number of members of MHP Group Deputy President and Manisa MP Erkan Akçay (10/37). The first word in favour of the nationalist Movement Party's group's proposal is the first word for its support by the MP Mustafa Kalaycı. Mr. Tin Man, here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit02spe0048par0018	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the opening of a parliamentary investigation as the National Movement Party to determine the measures that should be taken by investigating the problems of our disabled citizens. On this occasion, I salute your high council. First of all, I sincerely congratulate you, our nation, the Night of the Berat of the Turkish and Islamic world. The night of the Abode is the night of Allah's mercy and His forgiveness. Tonight, those who grieve for your honor shall find a cure, and the sick shall be healed. Tonight, let's purify ourselves, indulge ourselves with happiness and a reward for salvation, and we'll all be together. Let not Allah put us to hardship, nor let us fail, nor let our national and spiritual values be separated from the path of loyalty and sacrifice. Dear lawmakers, the week of May 10-16 is the first step in reevaluating levels of responsibility, sensitivity, consciousness and awareness regarding our disabled brothers and sisters. I must also point out that it is not appropriate and merciful to wait for the May 10th or May 17th Week or the Day of the disabled to remember and remind our disabled citizens of their expectations. The desire, desire, and needs of disabled persons must be on the front page of the agenda throughout the year. All the possibilities of becoming human without distinction must also be offered to our disabled brothers and sisters. The social, political, and economic possibilities within this scope are not a blessing, but are lawful as the mother's mother's milk. The latest study on identifying the disabled in Turkey took place in 2002. According to this study, 12.3 per cent of the country's population lives as disabled. Over the past 15 years, no extensive research has been conducted on the disabled, and in 2010, only the problems and expectations of disabled citizens in the database have been conducted. As of today, the number of disabled persons is not well known for their disability status, education, health care and employment. A thorough study must be done. From transportation to education, from working life to health care, it is a human and legal obligation to offer human life to the disabled in all areas. It's essential to turn disability into an active, not a breakthrough, but a subjection in the production wheel, to take the flow of life into a position that leads us to a position that leads us to a place that's not desperate for life. For us, it's the purpose of the disabled to be integrated into society, to live their lives without the help of others. It is our main expectation to remove the barriers of physics and social environment so that they can continue their education and social life normally. One of the most important problems of the disabled is unemployment. The problem of employment of disabled persons is one of the most important aspects of disabled problems with its unique aspects. There is a job that any human being can do, and the disabled can also work and participate in production when they are given proper education and rehabilitation to consider their qualifications. Like everyone else, the disabled are willing to work, to produce. Employment policies for disabled persons are largely based on quota techniques. In our country, the number of disabled quotas that public institutions have to run is 3%. The world's disability quota differs from country to country. In many countries, public institutions apply 5 per cent and more disabled quotas. According to the April 2017 data of the State Chief of Staff, there are 62,912 persons with disability, 48,947 persons with disability, and 13.967 people with open disability quotas. 22 per cent of the disability officer's quota is open. The largest open seat is at the Ministry of National Education with 9.236. In recent months, not all teachers have been appointed for 1,500 quotas, although they have not been assigned. The number of disabled teachers who were waiting for the appointment was expected to plan and implement an appointment process, while the number of disabled teachers who were expected to be assigned to the appointment was attended by a staff distribution. Some episodes have never been given any quota, some have been given more than available, and some have been given more quotas under the body, causing the victim to continue to be victimized. It is imperative that the distribution of quotas of appointed disabled teachers be organised according to the applications provided so that they do not experience any harm. This is the responsibility of the Ministry of National Education and the responsibility of the mind and the conscience. In order to ensure that disabled individuals can be placed in the job, participate in production, and are brought into society, the public must be raised to 5 per cent of the quotas for disabled persons and must be quickly appointed to the open disabled quotas. The appointment for the week of the disabled must already be preached to the disabled and must be given at least 10,000 staff assignments. The examinations for the disabled Public Staff should be taken into account more often. The disabled should be assigned to the staff in line with their qualifications, and the current servants should be assigned to the relevant staff in the general administration services. Education is one of the most important challenges our disabled face. The number of special education and knitting schools, teachers, and courses for disabled persons is limited to the last level. In private educational institutions, two hours a week of individual education for disabled people who receive physical therapy and education and more than 36 months of disabled group training are covered by the state. Unfortunately, a group education is given to the most heavily disabled, even though it is of no use to them. These disabled should be given individual education instead of group training. Two hours of individual education per week at the earliest age may be sufficient, but that is insufficient at a later age. Many families are unable to pay for more education. The state must pay for at least four hours of individual education and two hours of group training per week for disabled children. Months that depend on disabled people in need are also very inadequate. Today, a disabled relative and disabled pension is at the level of 350 Turkish liras and a heavy disability pension at 525 Turkish liras. The disability pensions need to be improved because they are unable to make a living with these months. In addition, many disabled people's pensions have been cut off from their pensions by determining the poverty criteria based on family income rather than on their own income. Although unpaid monthly payments and regulations have been made regarding the abandonment of penalties and interest, these regulations have prevented rescinding the paid monthly, but have not provided a permanent solution to the problem. In order to repair the victim's injury, the legal arrangement must be made to "return the income per household to self-inflicted income in order to determine the needs of the disabled. In our country, the disabled do not have equal opportunities among themselves. There is a different practice in the count of disabled persons and in linking the disability monthly. It is contrary to the principles of justice and equality of the Constitution. In the case of disabled persons with equal opportunities, those who are disabled before being born or insured must also be taken advantage of by Law 5510's provisions regarding disability and disability allowance. There is much more to be done in order for our disabled citizens to be independent, on their feet, and to live happily ever after. An unstoppable Turkey must surely be kept alive and active for an unstoppable society, an unstoppable future, a sense of responsibility, empathy, solidarity and cooperation. Our disabled brothers and sisters must be kept wide open for them to be on the level they deserve in every aspect of life. As the National Movement Party, we recommend that parliamentary research be opened in order to investigate the problems of our disabled citizens and take the necessary precautions.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit02spe0049par0035	Complete, please. I'll give you one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit02spe0048par0037	I think that all of our MPs agree on this, and I expect your support, and I thank you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit02spe0049par0039	Thank you, Mr. Kalayci. The first word against the proposal belongs to Mardin MP Mithat Sancar. Here you go, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit02spe0050par0043	Mr. President, we're on the week of the disabled. Unfortunately, we only remember these kinds of problems on special occasions or in weeks. Other than that, people often forget these problems and these problems. Yes, the main problem with disabled people in Turkey is that a right and equality-based application has not been created, and there is no initiative to create it. In the culture of charity and charity, a policy is carried out, assuming that the problems of the disabled will be resolved. This is, in fact, not a aid to the disabled, but rather a discrimination, or even an insult. Whereas the disabled, like all of us, are citizens who have no obstacles, they must have equal rights, with equal treatment of all aspects of life and all its resources. I'm afraid there's a lot of idleness, a lot of indifference. No policy based on aid and charity, not based on right and equality, is possible to solve the problems of disabled citizens. Look, every day we come across examples of how ill-manneredness for the disabled deepens with political grounds. Mr. Kerestecioglu, our Group Vice President, has just mentioned that the disability benefit of two heavily disabled children has been cut off from a suspended father. We're trying to talk over and over and over again about what kind of guilt is going on here, from these platforms, from these platforms, and from other places. All approaches based on hatred and revenge are common in different parts. It condemns the country to an atmosphere of hatred and vengeance. Today, those who have the right to act with hatred and vengeance may face the same feelings tomorrow. I keep reminding you, we reminded you of that in the time of the Constitutional Amendment, because I see that there is no other argument left to influence. So it's reasonable, rational, you know, it doesn't help to explain the world's literature, its applications. We're just hoping that maybe the warning will work a little bit. That's why we remind you of these. And when we look at our past, our recent history, even our distant past, we can see that a cycle of revenge and hatred has caused major wounds. As our society waits for ways to heal these wounds, it has an understanding that causes the wounds to deepen. Amongst the people who have been dismissed from their jobs are disabled under the rule of law, and it is not clear what crimes have been charged; the grounds for membership in an abstract organization are seen to be sufficient. One of them was Veli Sakımı, you know, who lost his arm in the atrocities under the name of the resuscitation operation, then was hired from the disability quota, and was fired in a state of emergency. A friend of ours, who has been able to work in the disability quota for some time after such a loss of state's own, has now been dismissed in an extremely arbitrary manner, regardless of his disability. Nuriya Gülmen and Namih Özakça have been on hunger strike for sixty-three days. What they want is very simple, my friends. What they want is to be reinstated. They say they've been fired to be disciplined by hunger, and they answer that for themselves. You wanted to discipline us with hunger, and we put ourselves to hunger. Are we going to stand by and watch these two beautiful people melt in front of us? We, all of us, but in the first place, no doubt the government, who is responsible for this injustice, must act. There are those who fall to us, there are those who fall to the MPs of parties who are not in the government, we have to show more support and solidarity, dear friends. These two of our people will go on hunger strike the day after tomorrow -- and I'm just saying this week -- yes, there may be a lot of damage going on, even if they finish today, which they don't intend to finish, until the end, we're going to continue our hunger strike until we're returned to work. To watch these two beautiful people disappear in front of our eyes is a great lack of conscience. Sometimes it's hard to understand how the government can be so unconscionable. Why do you struggle when we say this? There's as much remorse as the world has created by this government. You are very naive. They call us those who criticize the government, those who share our opinions. Yes, this naivety may be our only chance to sustain our humanity today. We'll just keep being naive. I invite you to be a little naive, a little bit outside of those ruling accounts, to think and act outside of those interests. A naivety this small can save our humanity. Now, yesterday, another MP here was demoted. A great lack of conscience, a great injustice. It's not just a lack of conscience, it's a lack of law. Look, the number of judges and prosecutors suspended since the coup attempt has reached 4,500, and some of them are under arrest. About our friends, such as Nursel Aydoğan, who was discharged in court for the trial of prosecutor MIT trucks in the court. Three judges, three judges of that court board have been expelled again, fired from their jobs. Why? They are presumed not to make an impartial trial, but to use judgment for other purposes. That's what it's like for an organization to be decent. Again, for example, about our co-Chair, Selahattin Demirtaş, on February 21, 2017, East Whiteıt 2. The five-month prison sentence of the Criminal Court is also a case where the judge who made this decision was discharged, only the other day, dear friends. The judge of this case, HSYK, was discharged from the profession on May 5, 2017. Now, sometimes the government speakers compare these exports to the unification of Germany, to the practices after the collapse of the East Bloc, they say: "There were also liquidations there." I warned several times, and I used this argument, it would not help you, but it would create a lot of examples and arguments from there that would prove you wrong. I'll give you an example or two: after the Soviet Union collapsed, even before Perestroika, beginning in 1987-1988, began the process of rescinding past unjust court decisions, for which he passed the law in 1991. Now, you're going to throw out these judges, these prosecutors, they're going out of business, and you're not going to apply the argument that you used to justify that decision to any other area, so you're going to say, "The coup attempt, we're throwing them out." Let their judgments continue to pay their dues. • There can be no such enjoyment, there can be no such lack of conscience. Yesterday, I told the deputy speaker, and again: Dear friends, if this is a government policy, say it clearly, don't run away from it; say, "We will purge you with all the dirty resources we have and all the unfair ways we will do it." We're already taking our own stand, we're running our own policy. They say there's no such policy, the government doesn't have it. I warn you then, if there really isn't such a policy, then there's an entity in the judiciary that aims to trap you, so we have to think about it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One more minute, please.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit02spe0051par0055	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit02spe0050par0056	That means that there is a focus that makes such unjust, unfair decisions, and that 15 or 20 lawmakers can reduce the parliamentary status of 30 or 40 lawmakers with such provisions. The way to protect against that is to show the House its will. That's what the law says, sir, about such open decisions, court decisions, which are clearly unfair and unfair. What do we do? We have to study here. If you connect such results with such a reason, you will suffer a great sin. When it is necessary to answer for this plague, I hope you do not have to demand that others show solidarity for justice. I hope you don't have to shout justice, justice, tomorrow. We fight honorably, and so do our friends in prisons. And you will never be able to answer for this heavy burden. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit02spe0051par0059	Thank you. Now, the second word in favour of the proposal belongs to Kayseri MP Çetin Arik. Mr. Arik, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit02spe0052par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to discuss the nationalist movement party's group proposal to investigate the problems of our disabled citizens. First of all, I salute the Veteran Assembly, celebrating the Berat Kandili, of all the worlds of Islam. Dear friends, Turkey is a subject that is afraid to face but does not fear, rather has to face. Look, as the National Movement Party has highlighted in the group's proposal, the latest study of the Turkish Statistical Agency for the disabled covers 2002. So we don't really have real data on how many disabled citizens we have in Turkey today and their problems. According to the data available, 12.5 percent of our population is disabled. Which means we have about 10 million disabled citizens. Yes, we have 10 million disabled citizens, but the large majority don't see our disabled citizens because the families of a section of disabled individuals prefer to keep disabled individuals out of social life. Some see it as an embarrassment. It is important to say in advance that authorities who do not provide a solution to the problems of the disabled and the disabled, who ignore the disabled, are the political authorities who cannot come up with a solution. Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, are remembered in our country on specific days and weeks, such as the Saturday of the disabled, December 3rd, the Day of the disabled, or May 10, 16th, the week of the disabled. Big speeches, big promises, but unfortunately there's no solution. A year from now, the same speeches, the same ambitious promises. Let's all do something different this time. First of all, let's put aside political maneuvers, political concerns, and come together for a solution. Let's all support the National Movement Party's motion, and first, let's present healthy data on the disabled. We really need to know how many of our citizens are disabled in our country, how many of them are employed, how many of them benefit from education. Dear friends, one of the most important problems of the disabled is education. Our disabled citizens are being exposed to a basic right to education guaranteed by the Constitution. For example, our children with autism... a developmental inadequacy from autism, symptoms from birth, a developmental inadequacy of the brain, which emerged in the first three years of life. In 1985, one of the 2,500 births shows autism in one of 68 births, and studies say that one of every two children will be born autismous after ten years. The painting is so creepy. Well, if 68 children are born with autism, if one child is diagnosed with autism in 20 minutes, the world's most common and reliable research company says that after ten years, one of the two children will be born with autism, why can't we see these children, where are they? Without further ado, they're home. The family doesn't take these kids out unless they have to. And if he does, he's trying not to be seen as much as possible. And why is that? Why are these children living in prison in their homes, whose biggest medicine is to be with those of their natural age? Now, perhaps they can live in prison in their homes, but can these special children, who will find 50 percent, be imprisoned in the house? Will he be able to be held at 50% home? In these special children, the only cure is continuous, intense, continuous training. Congressmans, children with autism are able to survive with at least 40 hours of training a week. But unfortunately, in our country, there are not enough training instructors, not enough qualified schools to provide education, and most importantly, there is not enough government aid. Is it appropriate to give these special children two hours of training a week when normal education doesn't even work without school support? And again in Turkey, there are about 1,142,000 individuals with autism in the total population. In the 0-18-year-old group, there are 352,000 children with autism. There are only 26,586 children who have access to education from 352,000 children. Unfortunately, it's on paper. Look, I'd like to give you an example: My dear Elvira wants to study at the Conservatory, but she can't get over the bureaucratic barriers. Esra is a three-year-old girl diagnosed with autism. We're a young girl with a passion for piano, a passion for music. She wants to study at the Fine Arts High School, but because she's not a teacher she's not getting into high school. In 2015, however, the classical music between secondary schools and upper secondary schools is third in the piano, which is held in Ankara. Again, Ankara has entered the top 10 percent in the solo sound competition between secondary school and upper secondary schools. The teacher who tutored Esmeralda says that music knowledge is at the level of the conservatory, and she wants to study the conservatory. The requirement for a high school diploma is required to take the conservatorial examinations of Esmeralda. In order to obtain a high school diploma, Esmeralda continues her upper secondary school. In three years, Esra was able to get 51 loans. In order to obtain a high school diploma, she has to complete her loan by 192. Esra has autism, but the system asks her the same standard questions as other individuals. Esmeralda does not need to know trigonometry, logarithm, molecules. Moreover, you gave her two hours of weekly education, she wanted to study at the Fine Arts High School, but you said: "We don't have a teacher to give lessons to." Now, you're taking the same test under the same circumstances, and you want her to complete the same loan. Where's the justice in that? Where's the conscience in that? But if they give her luck, maybe she'll become a world-class pianist. We know that any investment we invest in these children will come back to us as healthy and happy children and families. According to an American study, each dollar spent on these children returns to society as $16. One of the most important problems for education of disabled children in our country is the lack of a tutor and the lack of teachers to train these teachers. There are still 7,000 special training teachers short, and it is vital to provide all kinds of support for educational institutions to close this gap. Members of parliament, another problem with the disabled is the employment of the disabled. The AKP's ruling in the field of employment has fallen into the ranks of the disabled. According to the data available, 78 per cent of the disabled are not part of the labour force. We're dealing with a painful reality here, as about 2 million disabled people in working condition are out of employment. According to the Employment Act, 50 and more workers work at workplaces; 3 per cent of private sectors have a 4% obligation to employ disabled persons, but the issue does not end by making laws; this law must be enforced, and those who do not comply must be audited. Our disabled citizens, who can still find employment, are experiencing great difficulties because their workplaces are not fit for physical conditions. Our country is far behind international standards in terms of the technological and environmental equipment that the disabled need. At this point, it is also important to stress that the assistance of the AKP's power for political rant is also a major problem. Support made by the AKP to enable disabled individuals to participate in social life is usually a benefit of need. The allowance of the disabled is far from allowing the disabled person's care allowance to lead an honorable life for the disabled person and his family. Under the image of his disabled friend, there was a vote-hunting...
tbmm-2017-05-10sit02spe0053par0074	Complete, please. I'll open it one more minute.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit02spe0052par0075	...blockers have become increasingly helpless communities. The modern, social law state understanding aims for all disabled citizens to be individuals who live, produce, and contribute to social life without need of others. To illustrate, it is of course important for the disabled to benefit from public transportation for free, but more importantly, to enable the disabled to get on and off without trouble, to perform public transportation. That's when the disabled will be in more lives. I salute you all with a world of unstoppable hope. We say yes to the National Movement Party's proposal. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit02spe0054par0080	Thank you, Mr. Arik. Now, the second and final speaker against the proposal is Erzincan MP Serkan Bayram. Here you go, Mr. Bayram.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit02spe0055par0084	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the MHP group proposal. I salute you all. Berat Kandili today. I congratulate you all on this beautiful night, on this beautiful day of lamps, and I say it'll be a blessing. Of course, when our speakers were just talking about the point where there wasn't much going on, before 2002, we had one disabled deputy in our parliament, and today, thank God, we have four disabled deputies in the House. It's a win. Hopefully, the number of times increases because it's the best time to fall off the roof. And may Allah not make anyone fall from the roof, that is our hope. The disability is a social task that concerns not only our disabled citizens and their families, but all the communities that make up society, which requires being sensitive and should be handled in many ways. Despite its various obstacles, it is of great importance to us that our disabled citizen, who is involved in life in economic, cultural, and social life, is struggling to live his life honorably. It is a duty given to us by our Constitution as a social government principle to bring our disabled citizens to society, to make them independent, to live on their own, to make them productive human beings, to shape their living levels according to the developing world conditions, to understand their needs well, to provide them with the best environments within the current circumstances, and to provide them with jobs. Our party has put its hand under the table so that disabled people can live easily, be in equal positions with other members of society without discrimination, and be supported in all areas. Again, between 2002-2017, we took steps that could be considered a revolution in the field of disability, and we adopted legislation. In 2005, in order to protect and improve the rights of the disabled, we obtained the Law of the disabled. I give thanks for the support of all parties to the High Assembly in 2005, in the Law on the Handicapped, because the disability thing is an event beyond parties, our Parliament has paid that much attention, and I give thanks. Again, we signed the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disabled Rights in 2007, signing it before the Council of Europe. In 2010, we changed the 10th Amendment of the Constitution, bringing positive discrimination to our disabled, our women, our elderly. Again, in 2013, we formed the Committee for the Watch and Evaluation of Handicapped Rights in the Prime Minister's Office. In 2014, Law 6518 and Law No. 5370, which we passed in 2005, were updated, and we adapted to the Convention Against the Rights of the United Nations. As a result of the legal arrangements in 2010, we made arrangements for home care services, a new service model in the field of disabled care. With this service model, we provided home care services provided by child care staff who will be assigned by our Ministry of Family and Social Policy if the disabled person who cannot receive home care fees or institutional care services. According to the number of individuals who are obliged to take care of the average monthly income, we have arranged to provide care for the disabled in their homes and private care centres if they need care, if they need care, less than two-thirds of a month's net minimum wage. As of March 2017, we also provided home care for 485,000 disabled citizens. In 2002, when serving 1,843 disabled persons at a nursing and rehabilitation centre, we presented the number as of March 2017, to 6,700. Again, as of March 2017, at 166 private day care centres, we provided boarding care for 12.316 disabled persons. In 2002, 30 disabled people receive 1 maintenance staff, while 6 disabled ones receive 1 care staff. We made 5 times that, 30/6. With his family, we developed a model of hope houses for disabled people who couldn't be cared for. For every month that is disabled and unemployable according to the Employment Law, we've brought an administrative fine of $2,295 per month. As of the end of 2016, the currently employed disabled worker at public institutions is 10,822, and the quota deficit in institutions that are obliged to operate a disabled member of the public's worker status is only 387. As of the end of 2016, the quota deficit is also 20,336. As of 2002, the number of disabled people working as an officer in the disability zone was 5,777 (as of today), and the number of disabled officers has increased by ten times as much as 48,947 (as of today). Publicly disabled officer quota deficit has been reduced to 13.976. In 2008, pension opportunities for disabled officers have been more suitable. Again, with the cooperation of the government, we carried out the Protected Business Project. We submitted the Protected Business Application Guide service to guide NGOs that would contribute to the disabled employment of the Protected Business Project. To support the employment of disabled individuals in the private sector, our Ministry has launched a study on a supported employment project covering five provinces, the Joining in Work Project (Employment) and the elements that increase disabled work in the private sector. Again, at the end of 2011, he introduced a separate central exam for the disabled by changing the State Officers' Law to ensure that the disabled can compete in a fair competition. With this test, the hiring of a disabled officer is conducted every year according to this test, and soon we will have 1,500 disabled teachers assigned to civil servants. Again, with the change we made in 2014, we had to make it accessible to public transportation, and we created a board that watched it best. Before us, we had all our disabled citizens benefit from education support for children whom only the officers and the USSR's children benefited from, whether it was social security or not in our time. We've brought arrangements for the physically disabled to be able to make physical changes in their apartment in case they're needed. In public buildings, in public transportation, we've adapted it to the use of disabled people. We've brought in the app that no property tax can be taken from disabled people with a house that does not involve luxury housing. We've covered the daily lives of disabled persons and the facilitating tools and equipment of social life, and we've brought the VAT and the VAT discount on our disabled. Again, we work every day with a stronger force to ensure that our disabled citizens enjoy life, look to the future with confidence, and become self-sufficient and productive individuals, that they exist in school, in business, in street, in parks, in every aspect of life, give us a shoulder in the race to serve our country, regardless of the obstacle ratio, all of our disabled citizens are self-sufficient, honorable and upright, equal citizens. As our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has stated, we consider and accept the obstacles we accept as a trust of God to the community as owners of this country in the same degree as any other member of the community. May 10th, 16th, the week of the disabled is with my sincerest wishes, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit02spe0056par0099	Thank you, Mr. Bayram. So the talks on the nationalist movement group's proposal have been completed.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit02spe0057par0101	Mr. President, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit02spe0056par0102	Before the nationalist movement party submits the group proposal to your votes, I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit03spe0056par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 90th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The nationalist Movement Party's group's proposal for the vote failed to reach a sufficient number of decisions. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who don't agree... there's not enough decision-making, so I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-05-10sit04spe0056par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 90th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the second vote of the nationalist Action Party group, the decision was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. Since the third vote did not find enough decision-making, the decision was made on Thursday (May 11th 2017) to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, according to the decision taken, at 14 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00, and I wish you a good day.
