tbmm-2017-10-26sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 14th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 14th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first statement is from Mr. Seyit Torun, MP of the Army, who wants to speak about the resignations of mayors. Mr. Grandson, your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0002par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've been promised off-the-tops about the mayor's resignations. First of all, I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has been going through a process that has been thrown out of lawlessness for days. The mayors are being forced to resign, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is being called into office for the failure, the court is being threatened by the defendant's chair, and who's doing all this? People are the leader of a party that speaks of will, but is actually run by the will of one man. As with everything else, this comes as one of the violations of one person's will, without consulting the nation, without seeking legal solutions. We see that the government is trying to cover its incompetence in general policy by changing mayors elected by the public. When we said justice, we actually called them justice. Respect for the people's will, not by forcing the elected mayors to resign. Dear friends, are these the ones who have been declared scapegoats and forced to resign? He's connected to terrorist organizations? What happened to your trustee mechanism? Have they been corrupt? What's with the judgment? While Istanbul was being looted in Ankara, while cities were being cemented, whose knowledge did they do all this? Are these the only ones who are guilty? Are they responsible for the referendum results? The people said no to your mayor at the referendum. Dear lawmakers, at the end of 15 years, there is a heavy and heavy bill that must be paid in front of Turkey, generally and locally. The AKP's president obviously doesn't want to pay the bill, so he wants to start a clean slate before 2019. But isn't he the president of the AKP, which has led Turkey from US relations to Middle Eastern policy, to economic education, to disaster in all areas? Can anyone who swears to everything he says, who only accepts his truth, who's been running the state for 15 years, open a clean slate without account? The mayor of Turkey, which is currently voted by a 40 per cent voter, is not in office, but is run by 101 municipal trustees. He says to people, "Who are you? I don't know your will." In fact, people have never been respected for their will. Look who he's been liquidating in the past, time's working for you, too. Now the power is showing an inspection bat. Mr. Home Secretary explained here that we've launched a private inspection of municipalities without division of power-mutation. We have no fear, we have complete confidence in our municipalities. Republican People's Party municipalities have never been or will not be part of the runt swamp where AKP municipalities have sunk and failed to account. Clearly, there are several AKP municipalities involved in irregularities, corruption, and GERP connections that require a withdrawal from duty. Why are you getting me to resign? Send the investigators you've assigned to CHP municipalities to those municipalities as well. Why don't you do it within the rules of the law, not by negotiating behind closed doors? AK PARTY's understanding of urbanism, which worships Ranta and concrete, has failed. Justice and Development Party (AKP) municipalities have already agreed that the practices carried out by AKP municipalities mean a great betrayal of our cities. In the group talk, our president said that betrayal is not a mistake, it is not a mistake. This betrayal was done in front of all of us. Our great cities, especially ancient Istanbul, have been irreversibly destroyed, as we have ignored warnings from NGOs, occupational rooms. It seems that the locals are also preparing the end of the AKP (AKP) who came to power starting from the locals. Our president has made a call in his group speech. We repeat our call once again under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. If you respect the national will, if you're not afraid, let's respect that will, and let's go to the early elections, and let our mayors rule our cities not just one person, but our people. I'm returning our call about the early local elections from here, with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0003par0021	Thank you, Mr. Grandson. The second statement outside the agenda is from Diyarbakır MP Feleknas Uca. Your time is five minutes, please.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0004par0026	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs were forced to emigrate and murdered because of their beliefs throughout history, and finally attacked by the barbaric ISIS gangs at their main home on 3 August 2014. This massacre was considered a genocide by many countries of the world. The massacre and genocide policies against the Ezidis were on the agenda of the whole world after the attack on Shengal. The inhumane practices of the oppressed have been reported many times. Finally, the Council of Europe recognised the Parliamentary Assembly massacre as genocide, and signed a resolution that would pave the way for ISIS members to be tried in the International Criminal Court. However, the latest massacre against the oppressors was not officially accepted by Turkey. In recent days, the media who spoke for the government described the liberation of the city of Rakka in the hands of ISIS, where women were burned alive in cages, as an absurd genocide. However, the massacre of Ezidi, which the world considers a genocide, is still not considered in Turkey's genocidal category. Dear MPs, the invasion of the Shengal, which was liberated by Ezidi forces by YJŞ/YBS, has once again come to light. After ISIS, Hashi Shabi is now settled in the area, and Shengal faces genocide once again. But it is the home of the Shengal Ezidi, and everyone must respect it. The oppressed still have no status in Turkey, such as refugees or guests. We're not aware of the conditions of life when the AFAD Midyat camp they're staying at is completely closed to visit. We don't even know if this original society, based on the belief of persecution of life and culture, is fulfilling its religious obligations in the camp. Although we have repeatedly applied to study the conditions of our living, the AFAD did not allow us to visit Midyat camp. On July 29, 2016, we submitted a motion to open parliament research as the first Ezidi MPs of the TBMM to determine the problems of the oppressed, to protect their identity and beliefs. The motion was discussed by all political party groups in the ÜMM General Assembly on the 2nd anniversary of the Shengal Ezidi genocide, and the motion was submitted to the General Assembly's vote, but the same motion was returned four months later, on October 17, 2017, on the basis of the parliamentary presidency. After discussing the motion in the General Assembly, the extradition of the motion is against both the Parliamentary Council and the regulations. It wasn't a coincidence that our motion was returned 14 months later, during a period when the entire world recognized the persecution as genocide and the Shengal occupation was once again on the agenda. This practice is a clear statement of AKP's systematic denial policy against the oppressors. The policy also exposed itself when the AKP member abstained from the latest AKPM decision. We don't accept that attitude. In order for the former religious beliefs to quickly resolve the problems that have been inflicted on the heirs of the cultures, the Parliament must act immediately to ensure the official adoption of the Shengal Eziti genocide. Finally, for about a year now, our MPs representing the will of millions, especially our co-chairs, are still being held hostage. Some of our MPs have been legally punished and their duties have been reduced. Thus, our lawmakers representing the will of the people are completely excluded from law enforcement activities. Similarly, our work under the parliamentary system is constantly blocked by democracy. Although there is no court order against me concerning the curfew, and I am also a German citizen, my leave abroad, including Germany, is virtually blocked. Mr. President, as a member of this Parliament, are you aware that I have been banned from activities abroad as part of the legislation?
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0005par0034	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0004par0035	How many MPs' passports have been revoked and have been prevented from leaving the country. In order for us to participate actively in law enforcement, the President of Parliament must take the initiative to end this illegality immediately. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0006par0039	Thank you, Mr. Uca. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Imran Kılıç. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, five minutes.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0007par0044	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are the masterpiece of the Creator, the masterpiece of the human body and mind. Our body is made of the most perfect organs, our mind and soul are equipped with great gifts. The body is the ship, the mind is the captain, the soul is the helm in the sea of life. There is no difference between a human being and being a human being; they have equal rights and duties, values and values. God has breathed His spirit into the people and raised them to a higher position than the angels. Man is a great world, the essence of the universe, the summary, the pupil and the crown. Among other things, human rights and safety of life are untouchable and protected. In order to preserve life, both Islam and all other systems have taken material and spiritual measures. ▪ Whoever takes a person's life seems to have killed all human beings. Anyone who saves a person's life is as if he had kept all the people alive. It is not given to any soul that it should take the life of another, nor that it should destroy the rights of life with its own hands, but that it should commit suicide, and suicide is considered a great sin, and in this world and in the Hereafter there shall be severe punishment. Suicide and suicide are a phenomenon that many people hate, see as a bad event, but many face and attempt in a period of time that will be measured by seconds on Earth again. It is also a psychological issue, sometimes by choice, and sometimes by mistake and accident. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, this phenomenon is one of the key indicators of the moral, social, psychological and economic structure of society, and it is a very volatile event. The number of suicides and suicides throughout the world and across the country is an important part of knowing the cause and shape. Today, human suicides and suicides have become a social disaster. Among the causes of murder and suicide, these trends grow further in the environments in which the bonds between Fert and society are relaxed, where the moral and moral structure is shaken and unsustainable. I will not be able to address many research and statistical results on this issue around the world and across our country due to lack of time. Islam has put a great emphasis on life and its protection, and has absolutely forbidden us to take the lives of others as well as of ourselves. The lives are the greatest trust ever placed on us in the name of its owner. No soul is entitled to do with it what it wills. One of the things that all heavenly religions have ever shared in common is to protect the soul, the soul. It's the most important responsibility to people. You can't look at the color of the tears and blood. Terror has no religion, nationality, race. Honoring and protecting lives is the nature of faith, the nature of mankind. With these feelings, I salute you with love.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0008par0052	Thank you, Mr. Sword. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to the 15 MPs. Mr. Engin, let's start with you. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0009par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. Millions of our pensioners, who have spent their lives working for the welfare and development of our country, are trying to survive in very difficult economic conditions. According to a survey, the country ranked 42nd among 49 countries in the capacity of pension revenues. However, instead of enjoying retirement days, our pensioners are looking for a living, and if they can find work in increasing unemployment and economic recession, they are working. The suffering of our pensioners is not limited to this, but millions of pensioners are demanding that our citizens, who retired from 2000 years ago, arrange for an appropriations increase to those who have retired, and then the current injustice to those who have retired, be dealt with. I'm calling all parties from here, and let's give our pensioners the good news that they've been waiting for.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0010par0062	Mr. Ceritoglu Kurt...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0011par0064	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I'd like to tell you about the Opportunity Project in Lacin, Corum. In our 3,000-population Lacin district, our women learned how to do what they were trained to do after training with European Union funds, and now the students, the aunts, the mothers, all of them together built a cooperative and sold domestic markets, districts, and other parts of the city, chickens on the chain and vegetables that they grow with the under-caven greenhouse. When we call, we don't have the chicken we need, we don't have the egg, they say, Congressman. I want to experience this happiness in all our counties, and I want to make their eyes feel happy and confident. I wanted to share it with you. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0012par0067	Mr. Yasar...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0013par0069	Thank you, Mr. President. And I'd like to talk to you today about integration studies for refugees in the City of Oliveburn City integration unit. Here, along with social and psychological counselling services for refugees, they continue their integration schools for children to be integrated without assimilation. With sports and art activities conducted at the centre, Turkish children are meant to be united and fused with living together. As part of the project, a brand was created from the work of women in the hobby workshop. The brand is called the Snow Sparrow, which is the product of female manual labor. Of the 20 million people living in Syria, only 6 million people have left their land today, and about 2.5 million of them are in our country. The story of these brothers and sisters is the story of snow sparrows who hardly leave the land where they are. From here, I send my regards to snow sparrows, our immigrant brothers. I also want to thank our city of Oliveburn, who hosted them.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0012par0071	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0014par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. The International Transparency Association announced that Turkey was ranked ranked 75th in 176 countries last year in the corruption perception index. In a climate where the prime minister said that the marvel and the recession was over for 2018, which Mr. Babacan had said in the name of the party that he could not be indifferent to transparency and corruption, Mr. Arinc explained that it was a waste of transportation to the building, the economy was not well managed. The separation of forces, transparency, independent public audits are democratic elements developed not only by means of tools, but by heavy costs, by painful experiences. It's the ultimate betrayal of our country and the future of our children. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0015par0076	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0016par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. The book of Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, who was put in prison but could not be imprisoned, received great attention from the people. One reason is because the book is so beautiful, and one reason is because it's a longing for Demirtaş, because it's only been printed 100,000 copies in twenty days. Mr. Demirtaş's book Seher will be held at the Istanbul Book Fair on Saturday (November 4th), the anniversary of the day he was taken from his home and arrested illegally. Our people in Istanbul are already at 15 p.m. on Saturday (November 4th). I'd like to invite you to the signing day at the Beylikdüzü ÜYAP Book Fair. Here, the esteemed writers and poets, including our MP, Mr. Sırrıyya Önder, will present the book of Mr. Demirtaş, signed and presented it to his readers. Once again, Mr. Demirtaş, the political leader who strives most for an honorable peace in this country, can be arrested but cannot be imprisoned.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0017par0081	Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0018par0083	Mr. President, the importance of digital archivistration has increased today, when digitalization is mandatory for the preservation of more information, sound, photo and image. The news, photo, and video archives of media-release organizations have been particularly helpful in our history. Turkey's Anadolu Agency, which was founded on April 6, 1920, two weeks before the establishment of the Grand National Assembly, is Turkey's first national institution. Today it operates as an official agency until it becomes an anonymous company and becomes a semi-official government. Today, it is possible to access the photos and records that are being asked to question the subject. Technology is developing day by day, which allows people to create their own archives and contribute to history. I salute all the organizations that are active on Earth's Visual Audio Heritage Day.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0017par0084	Mr. Constant...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0019par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is October 26th, Patient Rights Day. We've made major reforms in health care in our country. As a result, patient satisfaction reached 76% in 2017 when it was 39 per cent in 2002. In my district of Izmir, there are a total of 326 units in the County Coordinatorship of Patient Rights. In 2016, there were 5,732 applications to the patient's rights unit and 5,350 (Izmir) were solved in place. A total of 4,416 applications have been submitted from January 2017 to today, and a total of 4,071 applications have been resolved at the application site, and 150 applications have been evaluated by the Board of Patient Rights. It says that we will continue to work for the health, peace and happiness of our citizens, and I wish all of our patients a speedy recovery.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0017par0088	Mr. Illgezdi...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0020par0090	Mr. President, thank you. Four years ago, Ismet Yilmaz, the National Defence Minister of the period, announced that 914 (914) security officers were killed in terrorist attacks from 1 January 2002 to 8 March 2012, 449 ( 449) civilians, 1,363 of our citizens were killed. First of all, I ask for God's mercy on our beloved martyrs and patience on their families. So I asked the current Minister, Mr. Canikli, from March 8, 2012, about the soldiers and policemen we lost in the terrorist attacks today, but the answer is a complete scandal. In the Ministry's response, the number of martyrs appears daily in the press, where you can learn. How can you be so serious? This answer is not only a disrespect to national will, but also to all our martyrs who have fallen to the ground for the sake of our country. I'd like to know why the Minister hasn't made a statement about our martyrs. We want to know if they're trying to hide a grave painting. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0021par0095	Mr. Irgil...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0022par0097	Mr. President, thank you. As you know, our former Minister of Health had promised additional appointments for non-sanitary medical personnel. In the past few weeks, this has been expressed in parliament, and the Minister said this promise would be kept by the end of October. Again, no statement has been made regarding health appointments to be made during the 2018 budget. We ask that health appointments be made at a time when so many medics are needed. Therefore, the people who cannot be appointed in health will meet on Wednesday (November 8th) to present and bring this matter to the attention and attention of the Association of Medical Laboratory Platform and Ebelers. I ask the Minister to turn this into a thank-you meeting, not a protest, but a rally, given the promise and good news of this appointment before November 8th. I expect that promises to health workers, additional appointments, and new appointments in 2018 will be expressed and said immediately.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0023par0100	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0024par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Our community's carrier vertebrae, the cornerstone of our economy, the security gate, the insurance of our union, the guarantee of our brotherhood, is powering our country's economy. It produces, employs, sustains the economy, sustains the forgotten arts that we see as the backbone of growing Turkey. Today, 450,000 tradesmen have the opportunity to use cheap loans. The credit limit is now 5 thousand liras in 2002, while the credit limit is now being extended to 150,000 liras. The business loan limit, which the tradesman will use, is raised from $150,000 to $200,000, given the good news of our prime minister's tradesman. If our shopkeeper wants to buy the business, he'll be able to get the $500,000 loan in ten years. There will also be serious improvements in taxes that will relieve the burden of our tradesman. I wish these developments to our tradesman, to our country, and to the General Assembly, with respect.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0025par0105	Mr. Aydemir...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0026par0107	Mr. President, every city has a symbol name. That name is the city, the values of the city, the attention, the identity of the city. They represent cities with dignity. They will find their names and their traces in the land. I'd like to bring such a name to the attention today: Nevzat Kösoglu, my grandfather, former Erzurum MP, mutekkir, national, unique name of domestic thought. Every city has its arifes, with its heart beating for high values, with its hard to reach the altitude of its brain, and Kösoglu was one of Erzurum's arifts, so we knew him. A full-fledged brother, a full Erzurumian, a full Erzurum, with dignity and dignity. It was the chief bar of Erzurum's sorrow, created by his brother-in-law's values. It was from the peaks of Erzurum, spotless and clean. Let the conquerors, Yasin-i sheriffs, be in the spirit of the saints. I hope his place is in heaven.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0025par0108	Mr. Turkmen...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0027par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Adana, who is among the highest in Turkey's unemployment rates, is unfortunately at the top of both individual credit cards and loans and other loans related to the sinkholes. Adana is now a city that lives on pensions from pensioners. I'd like to ask the Justice and Development Party, which has been in power for 15 years: Do they have an answer for Adana's unemployment, a project they want to implement in terms of the removal of Adana's unemployment? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0028par0113	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0029par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there is a plan in our province of Üsküdar that remains in areas of feedback and influence that affect a total of 300,000 neighborhoods, and is aimed at urban transformation. This is Kandilli, Kuleli, Küçüksu, Yavuzturk neighborhood, Kirazlıtepe, which is left in the region of the background for urban transformation. They've got property issues, zoning issues, and there's not enough schools around here, streetlights don't work. If there's really going to come a runt with planning, the people sitting here need to take advantage of this runt, not share it with the third party. In this regard, 16 neighborhoods in our Üsküdar district have suffered a major loss in this sense. When are you going to take care of this victimization of our Üsküdar district? You have the Metropolitan Municipality, you have the Ministry, you have the municipality of Üskudar, aren't you afraid of God, what more do you want? Do you enjoy victimizing these people, or do you enjoy them? The one who gave you the most votes in Istanbul is Üsküdar. I mean, I don't get it here. Turkey is controlled by Üsküdar... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the president is in Üsküdar, the ministers are in Üsküdar. So I'm asking you. Your children also have a business in Skopüdar. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0030par0120	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0031par0122	I'm asking the Health Minister: it's true that the way city hospitals are made is not appropriate, that these investments, guaranteed customer and profit services, job and finance, will bring great burdens to our citizens and our state in the future. Privatisations can be made in health, incentives can be given to private companies, but when services are provided, the resources and resources of the state cannot be mortgaged, cannot be squandered. The state cannot guarantee customers and profits by burdening the state with many opportunities for implementing its do-and-run projects. These things must be done without harming the state, with a longer working period. Now give up such business projects as clients and profit guarantees that hurt our government and our nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0030par0124	Thank you, lawmakers. Now, Mr. Group, I'm going to make a promise to the vice presidents. Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0032par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. A soldier was reported missing yesterday, when a military vehicle carrying soldiers and policemen who had gone to the rescue of those who had been trapped due to extreme rain in the Saray district of Tekirdağ district of Tekirdağ province fell into flood waters on the Galata Bridge. I ask for God's mercy, and my condolences to his grieving family and to our nation. On the 93rd anniversary of the death of Ziya Gökalp, a writer, socialist, poet and politician, I am grateful and grateful for the great Turkish nationalist Ziya Gökalp. Ziya Gökalp is an idea man who tried to come up with solutions, such as the other intellectuals of that time, to save the fallen state, who had been in pain for 48 years. Many of the modern ones, such as the Turkish intellectual, are able to see deep traces of political, military, religious, and economic problems on the mental structure of Ziya Gökalp. With the influence of these influences, the concept of nationalism has been a key part of the thinking of Ziya Gökalp. Turkishism is a separate place in the thinking of Ziya Gökalp. The works of Ziya Gökalp have always focused on Turkish language and Turkish culture with the past, day and future of the Turkish community. With these feelings and thoughts, he demonstrated a sense of scientific morality, cultural and philosophical Turkishism. I'd like to read from here the final chapter of the Turan poem by Ziya Gökalp, who advocates the idea of Turanism. The country is neither Turkish nor Turkish, Turkistan / Vatan is a large and life-threatening country: Turan. Mr. President, on Sunday, October 29, 2017, we will celebrate the 94th anniversary of our republic. Ataturk (; born 19 May 1919) was a republic in which Ataturk had declared the survival of Samsun on 29 October 1923. The Republic is the greatest legacy left to the Turkish nation and is an indispensable value. This is the value of a member of a national state who thinks of us with honor and freedom, who has equal rights, the state...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0033par0133	Here you go, Master. I'll give you an extension.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0032par0134	...to become the sole and true owner. The Republic of Turkey is not founded on mercy and leniency of sovereign states, nor has it achieved its independence as a result of a blessing. The Turkish nation, with all its glory, rejected the role of slavery that the global forces of the period had set for him. The Republic is the crown of honor in the strategy to raise the Turkish nation of heroes willing to die for the independence of the country and the freedom of the nation. The state of the Republic of Turkey has built its foundation on its national values, with a collection of history over the centuries of sovereignty, rights and borders. The Republic is not only a change in governance, but also a turning point in a radical sociocultural development and the process of nationalization. With this feeling and thought, I celebrate the Republic Day of our nation, the founder of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his comrades, all of our martyrs and veterans. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0034par0137	Thank you, Mr. Master. Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0035par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, unfortunately, we have serious illness from our Şırnak MP, Farhad Encu, who was arrested in a political coup and remained in Kandira Prison until about a year ago. Regarding the treatment of these diseases, he is applying for a visit to the hospital, but when it is imposed on him, such as being taken in handcuffs, he prevents treatment by refusing to impose. He makes this issue known to the Speaker of Parliament in a petition, which is insulting to the MP. The Speaker is writing a festive response to homes that we'll all be ashamed of. What is this: MPs, representatives of national wills, must and must continue to become one flag, one country, one state, one nation conscious of our country. What's that got to do with it? One's sick, one's dishonorable, and the Speaker, on top of his dishonor, is clearly writing a very dishonorable article. A member of this Parliament will be handcuffed, and he will report this to the Speaker of Parliament with a petition... Besides, our friend is under arrest for a so-called insult to a creamer. Not one country, not one nation, not one language, not one country; what does that have to do with anything? I'm ashamed, ashamed of this article, of this answer as a member of this Parliament. The Speaker of Parliament, who does not defend the honor of a member of this Parliament, is occupying the office. The Speaker of the House, who did not protect his member, who did not defend his member's honor, who allowed him to commit inhumane action, and who sought to find legal cover for him, has lost that quality.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0034par0143	Mr. Lightning, go ahead. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0035par0145	After all these evaluations, the Minister of Justice is responsible for this application after making him appear to be a judge, as if he were the Attorney General. What are you telling who? A member of this Parliament who is still a member of this Parliament will be unjustly imprisoned, in prison with a political conspiracy, bound to handcuff him, convey it to his president, one language, one nation, one nation, will try to avoid the issue and find legal cover with it; I strongly condemn it, and I say that the Parliament Speaker has pushed himself to a point that has not claimed members of his own Parliament and has tried to protect him from dishonor. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0034par0147	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Sky, I'll give you my word, but... This cuffed treatment thing has been a problem for a long time. We were informed earlier that Mr. Abdullah Zeydan, again, Mr. Gültan Kışanak, Diyarbakır Metropolitan Mayor, Mr. Gültan Kışanak, Vice President of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Mr. Çağlar Demirel, had rejected the treatments because they were handcuffed, but in the same situation, I think Mr. Farhat Encu was confronted with it and sent an article to the Speaker of Parliament. The answer Mr. Ahmet Yıldırım has read is, frankly, I would like to say that I don't find it very accurate, and I will have a meeting with the Speaker of Parliament on this matter, Mr. Yıldırım, and I would like to say that I would like to be more careful in the course of an uncuffed treatment, as well as in the answers given. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0036par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. On Sunday, we will celebrate the 94th anniversary of our republic. Happy Republic. I would like to express my gratitude and respect for all the republic's staff, especially Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who has given us our Republic. In their way, Turkey struggles today to integrate into the civilized world and to be together. If not, the Republic of Turkey, which Mustafa Kemal Ataturk had built on secular Turkey, could not have come to this day. Fortunately, we have a leader like Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and despite all his setbacks, we have a republic. Mr. President, the valuable MPs are getting more and more injured by the concept of justice in Turkey. The arrest has become a punishment tool for all defendants. The arrest is an exceptional measure, but it's being hung like the sword of a Damocles. We're experiencing practices on the defendants that will cause the arrest to be declared guilty both in Turkey and in public at once. Look, the people who had been arrested recently were evacuated, some journalists were evacuated, but in the headlines of the pool media, they were exposed to accusations like agents and provocateurs. What a sad picture. So these people don't have reputations, these people don't have families, they don't have loved ones? Now, if you execute an arrest like this, and you declare everyone guilty in advance, in advance, even if they're released, they'll be traumatized for the rest of their lives. Therefore, your arrest is not a criminal offense in the following applications, but on the contrary...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0037par0159	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0036par0160	...a system of justice based on criminal trials that Turkey must experience quickly; we must make it happen. What will be the bill for many mistakes, Mr. President? Who will pay for these people's lack of rights, their time in prison, their negatives? Someone's doing it wrong, the courts are doing it wrong, they're making instructions, they're making decisions, they're taking out their transmissions in the pool media; it's happening to you that people are guilty, but they're in the first court. Turkey must get rid of this injustice, injustice, and we must live in a world of justice, Mr. President, on the basis of an open trial. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0037par0162	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0038par0165	Mr. President, thank you. Sunday is the 94th anniversary of the founding of our republic. I remember here with respect to the people who founded the Republic, especially Ataturk, their comrades, their intellectual staffs, who were acting together, and all the people who had honored the Republic of Turkey, put stones on stone, all the politics, all the people's will, all the parts who worked for the welfare of the nation, for the peace and peace of the nation. Let's not forget that we all raise the Republic by hand. I ask God's mercy on our soldier, who is a martyr in Tekirdağ, for the sake of our nation. In October, Ziya Gökalp died on October 25, 1924, and Nevzat Kösoğlu died on October 10, 2013. They are both people of nationalist political and intellectual movement, pioneers. In 1904, Joseph Açarra pointed to the ideas and intellectual aspects of Islam, Turkishism, Westernism, and from here to the republic. These aren't the exact movements that are separated from each other. Islamism, nationalism and Westernism; Westernism, Islamism and nationalism; they all exchange each other; and in the end, basically how this country will survive, how our people will prosper more.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0039par0170	Go ahead, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0038par0171	...how do we sustain the Ottoman Empire first, and then what roles do you have to take to glorify the republic that was established, intellectual and political actions, which are responsible for the kind of questions that need to be acted in the direction of the programs and goals. The Movement for Nationalism creates a vein in both Turkey's sociology and politics, which is extremely important, dominant, which is more or less equivalent in all politics. The book of Islamization by the late Gökalp (Turkishing) must be carefully followed by the reference of the modern economic institutions and the mental structure that he has made for economic development in the Usule Dair (Usule Dair), which will be followed during a People's Study. The late Nevzat Köseoglu was a man of ideas and an intellectual and a man of honor.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0039par0173	Please complete.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0038par0174	I had an opportunity to get to know him. These are the values of our country. I would also like to express my opinion that it would be beneficial for not only for a part of what they have done in the past, but also for all those who consider the future of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0039par0176	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. His petition to resign from the political party, which is a member of İzmir MP Aytun Çıray, has come to our chairmanship of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It's for your information. Now, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among party groups at the advisory council's 26/10/2017 meeting on Thursday (now), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. A proposal for the opening of parliamentary investigation of the main province of Hatay (10/235), which is part of the section of the Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoglu (10/235), which includes the agenda of the Grand National Assembly's agenda, has been suggested on Thursday (26/10/2017). To explain the motive of the proposal, the proposed MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoglu is on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Your time is five minutes, Mr. Ahrazoglu. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0040par0201	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Council's inquiry motion to investigate and address the problems of Hatay Province. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our fellow citizens of Hatay, the city of civilizations that follow us. Dear lawmakers, the civil war and migration in Syria have affected the region's geography bordering Syria. Hatay, our province of Hatay, which borders Syria with 277km, is at the top of the cities that are most affected by internal turmoil in Syria. Hatay is the third largest city in the country, with a population of 1,555,165, as of 2016. As of Hatay Province, 54.7% of the land is farmland. Because of the summer drought in the Amik Plain, where heavy agriculture is made, farmers are unable to yield because of the floods in winter. Hatay often suffers from electricity and irrigation costs used by all farmers for irrigation. The high cost and fuel used as a production entry has caused major problems. During the harvest period, farmers are victims of foreign imports and non-employment funds, especially when products such as cotton, wheat, corn are produced. Also, in your 15 years of power -- while our Minister is here, our Minister is gone -- the failure of the Menselet Dam to be completed, the failure of the set height, the failure of channels due to the set height, the failure of closed circuit watering, and the failure of the Reyhanlı Dam to support it will prevent the entire watering of the Amik Plain. These investments need to be completed as soon as possible. Hatay's coast road has not been completed; Hatay is very important for both trade and tourism. Starting with Belen-Hakere, the next circuit road and the next link between Arşiz and Samandag-Vevlik will surely be completed and will contribute quickly to Hatay's tourism and trade, but unfortunately, it has not been finished, and it is unknown to be finished. In addition, the government must take care of the victims of workers in the iron steel industry in Payas. Local governments are forced to help local citizens and do their current tasks because of their migration to Syria. Because of these migrations, it is imperative that assistance be sent to local governments. It is also expected that Hatay will make the necessary contributions to Hatay for EXPO 2021, which will be organised in Hatay, with the theme of the Garden of Civilities. Dear lawmakers, the unemployment problem, considered the biggest problem in Hatay Province, must be resolved. All over our country, especially in Hatay, our constituency, the unemployment problems of the people who live there have reached the limit because of the low wages of Syrian workers and the unregistered removal of them. In our province, the logistics for exports have completely collapsed. The closure of the Chilve-Eye and Yayladak Border Gates has brought to an end all our expectations of exporting. With the opening of the gate of the border, the region will be partially relieved. Also, our tobacco farmers in our districts - Samandag, Yayladağı, Altınözu - have a lot of problems. The problems with tobacco must be resolved, and they will be provided with the necessary convenience to sell tobacco products. Mr. President, under the Astana process, the Adlib Tension Zone has been established to ensure the proper conditions for the return of people from their homes, who have been displaced, and the facility of the ceasefire and humanitarian aid. The Turkish Armed Forces are located within Hatay's borders in places such as the Cilvegözı Gate, Sheikh Berekat Hill and Sheikh Akil Hill. In the first phase of Turkish Armed Forces, it is stated that work has been carried out for 8 detention points. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0041par0216	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0040par0217	Thank you, Mr. President. The Turkish Armed Forces will serve at 14 separate locations during six months in Idlib, as a result of studies in Astana. About 3 million people live in the Idlib region. There are people from all nations in this population, but there are Turks as well. As a matter of fact, the Syrian Turkmen, who were evacuated and migrated from the Aleppo and Hummus regions, live in and around the Idlib region, along with the Turkmen who lived here before the war. Following the operation of the Fırat Shield, continuing non-conflict in the region is also vital to the development of the Idlib operation, Turkey's border security and the prevention of a possible terrorist corridor, which is crucial at the point of humanitarian aid. The Idlib region is located at the zero point of Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On the one hand, Bayırbucak is in a highly strategic position to be a neighbouring area of Afrin. At the point of preventing the possible corridor of terror, the PKK in Afrin says it must be destroyed, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0042par0223	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. Now, other political party groups will discuss the group proposal. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Mr Ahmet Yıldırım will speak. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0043par0229	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've been promised on behalf of my party about the MHP group proposal. I salute the entire General Assembly. Now, Hatay, yes, one of the 15 major provinces of Turkey is a city that has everything to support itself and support itself. So there's agriculture, there's livestock, there's industry, there's tourism, there's forestry, there's border trade, there's customs revenues, there's everything; there's mountains, there's plains, there's Riot Plains, there's Rebel River; imagine, a province that meets 40 percent of the steel production of a country. However, if there is poverty in that city, if there is unemployment in that city, then there is a problem with the approach, the administrative system, and logic of that country. As long as Hatay is not managed at his place, despite all the income I've counted, there is no way that he can sustain himself within the current administrative system unless a significant portion of his income is left with him as a tax. Because if a city has all the subterranean resources, subterranean wealth and economic resources to support itself, but can't afford it, it's the administrative system, it's the lack of opportunity to strengthen governance and decentralisation. Our party has suffered the wrath and political rematch of today's political power because it has stepped up both in its charter and in its activities, and has made efforts to strengthen local governments. This is the reason why he appointed trustees to DBP-based municipalities, is because he wants to leave a significant portion of his city's income in that city. If we don't do this and we run this country through the current strict centralized system, there's no way that local problems can be solved as long as we're moving from one central administration to one party, from one party administration to one party administration, to the country's administration. Hatay is one of them. Just Hatay? Despite its many differences in this country, although we have many boroughs that have the potential for themselves, the main reason for hunger, poverty, unemployment is the problem of political power and the administrative system. Hatay is a city that lives in peace with the Turkish, Kurdish, Arab, Christian, Muslim and Nusayri, a city that lives in peace with Sunni, but because of its efforts to support itself in the current administrative system, it is not possible to feed itself, to overcome these problems. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0044par0236	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Hilmi Maker of Hatay. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, three minutes.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0045par0240	Mr. President, I salute the General Assembly with love and respect. As a member of Hatay, who has paid the most heavily for your recent foreign policy, I will try to explain Hatay's problems in three minutes. The Syrian crisis, which continued to zigzag, deepened in foreign policy the day after what he said yesterday, turned into a fire, a bloody war, a civil war near you. This fire fueled by imperialism, you too, unfortunately, have been blind to it. The cost was 416,000 refugees and hundreds of lives that we lost with bombs that exploded all over our country, especially the Reyhanite and Cilhanian eye explosions. As if Syria was not enough to return to the site of the fire, hundreds of logistics firms locked the door with the crossing gate closed, and hundreds of them were miserable enough to announce their bankruptcy tomorrow. Open the gate of the border, and open the ways of commerce, that our people may bring bread to his house. Stop punishing the people of Hatay by keeping the border gate closed. Dear lawmakers, both the industrialist and the exporter who put their capital in Hatay's business and the workers in the logistics and tourism sector are also miserable. Hatay is the export base of our country today with iron steel products, automobile filters, agricultural tools and equipment, producing and exporting fruits and vegetables. Dear lawmakers, Hatay is experiencing a growing unemployment problem that has been triggered by 416,000 asylum seekers. For years, Hatay has been carrying the burden of the Syrian war. This burden is long gone from being a burden that Hatay alone will bear. Hatay needs encouragement to produce and to produce. Although we are in the same group as Osmaniye and Kahramanmarash provinces with 42.8%, with the lowest level of participation in the labor force, they are in the 5th, we are in the 4th incentive zone. This means that Hatay will receive much less encouragement than he should have. Our city's economy will breathe in peace with the 5th place of encouragement that we want to cross, which means 10 billion dollars per year investment, a job opportunity for about 12,000 people, a 2% reduction in unemployment. Hatay will no longer be able to breathe if you do not take Hatay into the 5th district to encourage him. Take Hatay to the 5th precinct to encourage him so that new possibilities may be opened to our young ones. If you're trying to avenge the mayoral election by not taking Hatay to the 5th district, let's just say you're not going to make it. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0046par0247	Thank you, Your Creator. Hatay MP Haci Bayram Türkoğlu on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0047par0252	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of our party following the group's proposal from the National Movement Party. I salute your high council. Yes, Hatay said, "Indeed, Hatay is a city of civilizations, Hatay is an agricultural city, Hatay is an industrial city, Hatay is a city of tourism, Hatay is a city that cradles civilizations. We are also in constant work and zeal to make sure that Hatay gets to where he deserves to be. Of course, Hatay is currently one of the 15 largest cities in Turkey; 1,550,000 is the main population, but given the resident of 450,000 citizens from Syria, Hatay is currently facing a population of about 2 million. Of course, there's a sociocultural event that's given us about 20 to 25 percent of population growth in our province, but let's just say, Hatay, in advance, has done his part of the anti-relations community, in a way that really applauds. I thank all my countrymen in that sense. When we look at our Hatay from a global point of view, Hatay is a province in Turkey in terms of its share of exports, and at the point where it is now coming from, really, it is one of the top 10 ilities based on its development index and level in Turkey.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0048par0256	He's in the 19th place.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0049par0257	8th place, take a good look, 8th place.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0047par0258	Currently, agriculture supports agricultural products in terms of support. When we look at our region in terms of the production of citrus, about 30 per cent of the production in Turkey is produced by a narcissist in Hatay, or over a million tons. Our price for the citrus this year is pretty good. Of course, in Turkey, when we take on the ball of problems, there's a problem with terrorism in the Amanos, where there's a relentless struggle going on. Again, in terms of the neighbouring relationship with Syria, the Turkish Armed Forces are now there under the Astana Agreement in Idlip, the movement at our border crossings -- now -- one week, ten days ago -- that the cilve-eye has been opened, so the border is now... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...a measure has been taken to ensure the continuation of his trade. We're tracking down the other door. Of course, Hatay deserves the best of everything. We follow closely so that Hatay can reach further levels in every position. I salute your delegation with that sentiment, with that thought.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0050par0264	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Members of parliament, I submit to your votes the proposal of the National Movement Party group: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's 26/10/2017 meeting on Thursday (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 26 October 2017, İstanbul MP Fliz Kerestecioğlu and Mus MP Ahmet Yıldırım, Deputy Chair of the Group -- ranking 5740 -- was proposed to hold their talks Thursday (26/10/2017) in front of other motions for parliamentary research, which was submitted to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in an effort to investigate the two-consuming economic situation of waste and savings and poverty. To explain the motive of the proposal, the proposal winner is İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes, please.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0051par0278	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, Turkey's economy is highly affected by global and regional developments due to its externally dependent economic system. Since regional and global ambiguities increased in 2016 and 2017, the government declared these years to be the year of the coup d'état. The last thing I'm going to say is, first, we need to see what we're doing when we're asking the nation for something. As a state, there will be a huge savings year in 2017, and we will make serious savings. President Erdogan said in his speech at the meeting of the Eight Development States that we can't exploit the sweat of people just because we're going to live comfortably. Now, these words are very good, but despite these statements, in April 2017, Turkey was taken to the presidential system referendum. Some kind of election economy has been implemented, although it's a savings year, this referendum has made the economy more fragile. The government has implemented the opposite of austerity year's rhetoric, and the waste has reached its limit. Let us consider some expenses. I want to express to you very clearly the expenses. The market value of 268 vehicles in the garage of the Presidential Palace is around $54m when additional equipment is added to the insurance charges and the tender file. The value of 268 vehicles is $54 million. While our citizens are considering how to pay taxes on high-powered motor vehicles, the waste of the presidency has sparked a serious public buzz. Clearly, the tax burden is a concern for citizens, while the presidency and three companies whose tax debt of $5 billion has been expunged do not, nor do they care. In addition to the 1,000-room palace of the presidency, it is now on the agenda of the construction of a palace in Marmaris, in Okluk Bay. In addition, the Court report revealed the following expenditures: the import pen for consumption for 2016 was 26 million, 489,000, and the cleaning costs were 2,50,000, and the consumption materials used in the kitchen were $1,216,63 per year. Against that, one in eight citizens in our country - 10 million people do not fully meet the need for food, consumption and cleaning, need social benefits. Clearly, reputation can not be done by waste, but by saving the lives of 1,410 workers who lost their lives in the first nine months of 2017, and by providing human life conditions. Now, despite the expenditures listed above, Turkey's people are being placed under a large tax burden, inflation and acquisition power fall, unemployment and citizens are deprived of regular income. In 2014, poverty was 15.1 per cent and 15.8 per cent in 2015. The percentage of people who can't afford to eat meat, chicken or fish every two days in Turkey is 35.8. Every two days, our citizens can't eat meat, fish, chicken. According to official statements, unemployment is 10.5, but according to studies, 11.2. Also, there are 3 million,558 thousand unemployed, who are employed by the ISKUR, interns, apprentices -- other than fake jobs -- there are 4,500,000 unemployed in this country. The youth unemployment rate is 19.8; the young woman unemployment rate has risen to 27.5. Now, according to this TÜFE data, in August 2017, the highest price increase was in the egg at 16.85. After that, the apricot is listed in the list of green cheeses, 12.16, the greenskin with 7.55, the lemon with 6.6, the tube gas with 5,87, the milk with 5,87, and the white cheese with 3.87. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, may I complete?
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0052par0289	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0051par0290	These are all citizens' daily needs, and our people can't afford them. So there is a serious gap between the palace budget and the market budget, with very clear numbers. If you're saying "tasarrif" you really need to save money in the palace first and look at the expenses here. The economist Mustafa Sonmez says that the direction of the dollar and interest will be upwards and will be a difficult winter. Now, friends, we never accept that these difficult winters are always difficult for citizens, and we call them no. Therefore, we ask the entire General Assembly to support our motion to investigate and create a road map for one of the two sustainable economic conditions in Turkey, one of which is waste and one of which is savings and poverty. My respects.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0053par0294	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. The first speaker on behalf of the groups on the proposal is Samsun MP Erhan Usta on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is three minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0054par0299	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, saving is an important issue. While we're always discussing economic issues, we say: "We are an economy that gives funding deficits as Turkey's economy, gives financing deficits and is dependent on external resources." What is the measure of external resource addiction? Cari is open, so in the end, when we say how much the economy uses from the outside every year, the net number is very high, but the source we use from the outside is equal to the current. For this year, the current deficit is expected to be around $40 billion -- there have been times in the past years when this has gone up to about 70 billion dollars -- but a little bit of growth has dropped, a little bit of oil prices, and the current account is now around $40 billion.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0055par0301	Dollars or lira?
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0054par0302	$40 billion. In 13 years, or, in 14 years, when the Justice and Development Party was in power, in 2003-2016, the net resource that we used in this way from abroad... look, it's not the money we have to turn every year, or it's about $200 billion a year. For example, this year, in the next year, we're going to finance 205 billion dollars, we're going to raise 205 billion dollars from abroad, we're going to pay our debts; that's something else, but it's a net source, which is 500 billion dollars; 500.6 billion dollars, 14 years, if we count this year, it's going to go up to $540 billion. Now, what's the definition of the current deficit? Let's not pretend to teach economics, but it's the difference between savings and investment. I mean, our savings... what's the savings? We have income, we consume some of our income, we transfer it, we spend it, then we call the rest saving. He's being invested in savings, and the difference between that is clear. Now, since we're short 500 billion dollars, our savings are either too low or our investments are too high, one of which has to be mathematically identical. We're looking to see if our investments are high; thanks to the TİK, we've been working on both investment and savings for years, and we haven't been able to increase them by up to 10 points in revenues. We're talking about these things, assuming they're the right number, of course. Now, when we look at our investments, our investments are actually -- let's say for the year 2016 -- are about three points below us. I mean, not because our savings-investment deficit is high, but mainly for what? Because our savings are low. Again, I'm looking for 2016, when we look at the average of countries that look like us, the developing countries, our savings are below 7.5 points. So the problem is the lack of savings. To increase savings, you either increase income or reduce consumption. For example, when we look at the consumer side -- and I think that the public is responsible for this -- there's also a private side to it -- I'll give you a single figure: in 2011, the percentage of public consumption is 13.7 per cent, and in 2016 it goes up to 14.8. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have an extra minute, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0056par0309	Mr. Master, please complete it.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0054par0310	Thank you. Look, there has to be an increase in prices. The public is increasing its consumption. How many points? 1.1 points in three years. 1.1 seems like such a small thing, but these are huge numbers, so you have to program them for years to get them down by 1 point. Let's put it in numbers. You know, Mr. Prime Minister and everything, it's not exactly right, but let's follow in their footsteps a little bit. In 2011, public consumption increased from $191 billion to $387 billion in 2016, public consumption from 191 to 387... medium-term programme figures, the figures of the state. Now, so what needs to be done is for the public to straighten themselves out. This has to be done, and in order to reduce our dependency on the outside, or increase the resources we're going to spend on investments, public consumption needs to be reduced, and programs need to be implemented in this direction. I'm afraid we haven't seen much of it in the mid-term program, but our proposals will be in that framework, too. I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0057par0316	Thank you, Mr. Master. Tekirdağ MP Faik Öztrak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is three minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0058par0321	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion to discuss the economy. I hereby salute the General Assembly and its fellow citizens who follow us. Dear lawmakers, our economic balance is upside down. THE digits of the TİKİK (TİK) and the status of the citizen are getting more and more dissimilar every day. We just had a nine-cent increase in gas last night. This morning, when our citizen was filling his car's tank, he lost a gallon of gas to this raise. The unemployment, inflation, has seen double digits. And now you can't target them. In the medium-term programme, the value of a dollar will be $3.73. You said it was $3.73. You said it was worth $3.73. But last night, he saw $3.80. As of this morning, the dollar is $3.75. Before the ink dried up, all the targets of the mid-term program in dollars went to waste. For years, we have warned the Justice and Development Party, and he who rides upon his hand descends. We said, "We can't make him listen." Today, the economy's hot money dependency has become one of the biggest risks. As of August, Turkey's short-term foreign debt -- the stockpile of hot money -- is 112 billion dollars, and the central bank has only $90 billion in currency reserves. After 14 years, the total foreign debt exceeded half of the country's income for the first time, reaching 52 per cent in the second quarter of this year. The chairman of the ruling party, the President, is holding meetings at the palace every day to reduce interest, ordering orders around, but the interest doesn't listen to him, so he just takes off. The interest of the Central Bank, which was 8.3% on New Year's Eve, is now up to 12 per cent. Interests have seen the highest levels since the 2009 crisis. In global conditions where interest is bottomed out, we're paying interest on loaners for hot money. Do you want to lower the interest, prescribed friends: First of all, you're going to stop putting your backs to hot money. The debt of Victor Hugo is the beginning of slavery. We'll keep our budget and external payments stable, and then interest will drop; no country has ever managed to reduce interest by order, my friends. If you owe so much money, you have to be transparent, not run away from people and justice. You'll have to hand out the check you're running away from inside. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0059par0328	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0058par0329	Don't make foreign policy domestic political material because I'm going to get a vote. Calling out is not a trick, friends, it's a trick to make you listen, otherwise you'll increase the risk of the country and turn the interest on dry. If you can't do that, you'll give the foreign countries the opportunity to bend and twist you today, to crush your country into foreign debt, to hand over your foreign policy to other countries, and the entire nation will pay the price. As I complete my words, I salute the General Assembly and our fellow citizens who can follow us once again.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0059par0332	Thank you, Mr. Oztrak. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Amassian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes, please.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0060par0336	Mr. President, dear friends, we are entering the 94th year of the Republic on Sunday. Draw a line from 1923 to 2017, Turkey has taken significant distances towards development and development. The final phase of this distance, with full strides, is the power of the AK PARTI. In 2002, the EC PARTY came to power, and six years later, the world faced a global economic crisis in 2008. Yes, all countries have integrated, economic, social relationships, and when there's a crisis somewhere, the wave wave spreads everywhere in a very different way than the 1929 crisis. This crisis will pass us by. We have stated that, in the same way, compared with other countries, Turkey is much less affected by the crisis. Doesn't Turkey have problems? I do. As Popper said, life is solving problems. No one can think of a time when the problems are over. The point is, do you have the will and capacity to solve problems? Yes, the power of the Republic of Turkey also has the will to solve problems, and it has the capacity to do so. Whether you look at savings rates or development, imports, exports, economics, you'll see the decisive attitude of power. As you review these issues, the President's Chamber and the marketplace countertops and the words spoken in more political propaganda language, which are not based on analytic reasoning, are of no value to the public, I assure you. The presidential office will go there, to Ashli in Fivetepe, where people will be chosen by the will of the people, and they will be presidents.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0061par0339	Elections are unsealed, choices.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0060par0340	Mr. Erdoğan was elected the same way in 2014. Unfortunately, there are many examples in history -- against the Presidential Covenant -- a provocative propaganda language is being introduced into circulation. One-dollar cups are offered at a million lira, three-thousand-dollar tables in the form of $3 million, and an agitation and provocation is expected to be removed from this place. I'm not saying this for words here, but there's a language in the field, and I find it wrong, and one of the fundamental things that we should probably agree on about the republic, democracy, is that negotiations, this kind of debate, should be done on a rational basis. Turkey has problems, yes, but Turkey has had a very important middle classization, especially during the EC PARTY. The short definition of middle class is that people make their spending, they can save money on it. There is a very strong middle class in Turkey, and one of the most important political wills to do so is the AK PARTY, and let's not forget that. The crisis of the world... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Wait a minute...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0062par0344	Well, go ahead, finish it.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0060par0345	There's been talk of interest here. When interest was the lowest in Turkey, it was May 2013; it was below 5 per cent. Please look at what happened after 2013, and I won't tell you from here; what social movements, what manipulations, what provocations were staged, and what did Turkey go through, and what did Turkey go through, and what did the interest go up at the cost of those? If we don't evaluate them correctly and properly, if we carry a different link with the idea that there are useful tools in politics, we will be of no use to Turkey either. I think it's right for all of us to look at problems on a common basis. Again, we're open to all the problems that we're trying to solve, but we're closed to propaganda, and we think his buyer is different. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0063par0349	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0064par0350	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0063par0351	Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0064par0354	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, while the internal charter changes were being made in July, the ruling mind, which made a special effort to prevent the use of the bench from being limited only to the opposition, to prevent the word of the opposition from being delivered to society today, has faced the reality of not growing promises when he is speaking on proposals, with the fact that there is no longer time. I'm saying they're going to need to review this once again, and if it's not, they're going to need MPs like you who treat all groups equally and respond as often as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit02spe0065par0357	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Congressmans, I submit to you the People's Democratic Party group proposal: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit03spe0065par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 14th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's 26/10/2017 meeting on Thursday (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Ankara MP Murat Emir and his friends have submitted a parliamentary research motion (1430 rows) issued by Ankara MP Murat Emir and his friends on 26/10/2017 to investigate a project announced by the Pacific-National Partnership, which will hold the tender for Ankara's joint property EGO hangars in the area. lu) has been proposed to take their talks ahead of other proposals and to meet on a Thursday (26/10/2017/2017). On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Murat Amir will explain the reason for the proposal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes, please.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit03spe0066par0015	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. We've learned that a highly controversial, controversial, questionable, antidemocratic, possible result of dirty negotiations is that Melih Gökçek will leave Ankara Metropolitan Mayor's office on Saturday. We are, of course, opposed to having Melih Gökçek sit there even for a minute, but it is important to know that we will be opposed to any antidemocratic practice that has been done to him or to anyone else, due to our respect for national will. We have learned that Mr. Gravity will make a speech on Saturday, effective, emotional, and to account for those 23 years. And from here, I humbly advise him to make certain points in his speech. For example, what we all know is how he sold a parcel of Ankara. For example, he can start by telling the universities, such as the University of Turgut Özal, how the Koza İpek, for example, has made Ankara's most valuable land a pursuer. In every corner of Ankara, the buildings are in a row and can be mentioned as buildings. Along with these, it could explain why he negotiated almost all of his contracts. He should tell you how he made his followers rich. When he was mayor, he could tell us how ordinary people like you and me, who didn't have any assets, had a holding company today. We propose that Ankara talks about why the same company gets asphalt and sidewalk contracts every time. We want and we want and we wait. He can continue to explain how he meant to Ankara, how he betrayed him instead of serving him, with the President's confession. For example, I've been talking to 20,000 people three days later, and we expect the company who received that survey to tell the polling company that elects itself the best mayor of Turkey every six months, negotiating, handing out an irregular survey, like an allowance, and the results are the best president. Here are the results, Melih Gökçek. One of the most important things he has to tell me is that he is proud of our hero police at the place where Ethem Sarsuluk was murdered during the travel events. He has to tell the Ankarans why he had his banner hung. Of course, the operations in the Ankara Chamber of Commerce, the efforts to bring his son Osman Gökçekek to the summit, and there is not enough time to talk about a lot of illegal, unfair, antidemocratic, insolvent Ankara's sources and a lot of other things that attract the Ankarans' resources to the supporters. I'm going to tell you a very short, exemplary event, very briefly: Look, there's a huge 126-acre land between Ulus and Kızılay, which we call the EGO hangars in Ankara. He declares this land an urban transformation area in 2007, which is beautiful, and the Court cancels. So, what clause did the D.A. cancel? The Law of municipalities is Article 73. Right away, you are changing the 73th Amendment of the Law of the Cities. A month later, they start rebuilding there, stopping it again, the executive court, and this time they change the word "considant" to "also," and that's not enough, they make the precedent 4.5. When you look from there, it's 126 acres, and they're considered out of line in religious areas, so you can see that they're building 700 to 800 acres of closed space. Friends, look, notice the number, there are 700-800 acres of closed space in the middle of Ankara, which is exactly what the President calls the city. This was done by Meh al-Kzech. But for this precious land, the authority above says, "Wait a minute, AKP President in the palace, it's very valuable, you can't eat here." What's it gonna be? You're going to give it to TOKI. What's it like? For 500 million liras. What does TOKI do? He buys it, and soon he gives it to the Real Estate Investment Partnership for $600 million. Now, that land is now available to the allies. What's being done for him? There's an auction going on, and who's going to take the deal again? He buys Pacific Construction and he gets his partner. So, friends, Pacific Construction has a close relationship with AKP MYK... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll be back in a few minutes.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit03spe0067par0022	Go ahead and finish it.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit03spe0066par0023	We're all aware of the close relationship of Pacific Construction and Dual Construction at the AKP headquarters. Thus, friends are referred to in the middle of Ankara. A land, a land that is supposed to be a green area, is built on 700,000 square metres, and this area is given to the side at very small prices, so that the runt is given to the party in some way. And I'm bringing this to your attention. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit03spe0067par0026	Thank you, Mr. Emir. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Ankara MP Mustafa Mit. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is three minutes, please.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit03spe0068par0030	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the Republican People's Party Group's proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, civilization is the city. Our cities are our visible works of civilization. The city is a living civilization with all its elements, its presence. The success of projecting civilization's claim to the city's development will probably determine our level of civilization. On the one hand, when talking about its goal to rise to the level of musar civilization, it's treason to turn a living being into a lump of concrete that lacks aestheticism, which has no properties that are unique to our civilization. An attack on public spaces with Rant's madness is an act of treason that knows nothing but the spoils. Just the other day, Mr. President stated that Istanbul, the pearl of the world, was betrayed and continued to be betrayed. In their speech, they expressed the perspective of civilization, the city, and the human relationship that we've taken over from our profession. Yes, we are the heirs of a civilization. When you look at Ankara, we don't understand which civilization we represent. I think Ankara's state of affairs is making it clear to us that we're uncivilized, that we're ashamed. The issues of the responsible are based on Ranta, their defences reveal what value they are defending in terms of history, in terms of civilization, in terms of the city, and in terms of people. I suppose it's another betrayal to sign a 30 percent share of land, as well as a 50 and 55 percent plot of land. Precious lawmakers, the integrated project in the region creates a circulation of 50-60,000 people a day, along with housing, businesses, hotels, schools, and various various subsidiaries. The traffic density at the Hippodrome Street and the Concrete Road, which are already busy, will increase even more. However, the Ataturk Forest Farm, mentioned in the group proposal, says the former Hippodrome, Youth Park, Ankara Courthouse area, and from there a broad theme park reaching Abdi Silkchi Park, and that Ankara needs the green area very urgently, I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit03spe0069par0036	Thank you, Mr. Mit. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İzmir MP Ertugrul Kürkçı. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is three minutes, please.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit03spe0070par0040	Mr. President, dear friends, of course you have to support this motion for research. Because it's just that even this singular event shows that a very large public resource is handed over to private hands without any response, and that there are huge, private, undeserving interests, profits. This needs to be investigated, there's nothing to discuss, but can we investigate, now the majority of Congress will decide. But it's clear here that the entire chain of relations, controlled by the Justice and Development Party from beginning to end, the contractors who are doing business with him, the TOİ, and a massive partnership of interest created by his government, will not investigate the matter of transferring the public resource into private hands and private interests, as they have done so far. But the most important thing to talk about here is this: sharing it with society. If we don't share these things with the community, I'm afraid that soon all of this will be done, and those who have done it themselves will begin to tell us that this is a betrayal, a disaster, a disgrace. Our Minister of Environment and Urbanism tells us yesterday that there are terrible disasters in Turkey. Does he want us to forget the fact that these disasters, in terms of urban development, have been taking place in local governments for the past 20 years and that they themselves have been in the government? We need to tear down half of Turkey and rebuild it. The logic is clear: since otherwise the economy could not be translated, because otherwise co-friendly capitalism could not be translated, to distribute the tenders to the allies, to the shareholders, to start a construction cycle through them, and to turn the capital once again. But is this helping Turkey? No, I assure you, those buildings will want to be destroyed again sometime after they've been built, because it's not about housing, it's not about housing politics, it's about profit politics. So would the AKP want to investigate the majority? I think he's gonna want to investigate this just to make a profit. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit03spe0069par0043	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Salih Cora, Congressman of Tripoli. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit03spe0071par0047	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group against the Republican People's Party's motion. Dear friends, urban transformation is one of the most popular urbanization models in the world and Europe. In this sense, a serious success story about urban transformations was also presented during the AK PARTY rule period. In particular, a major urban transformation has been carried out throughout Turkey, along with a forgotten, unheard-of toki feat, and exemplary cities, brand cities have begun to emerge. In this sense, especially when urban transformation was taking place, we traveled considerable distances at the point of building new cities that would provide more reliable structures, environmental awareness, urban culture, and prevent preventive measures, instead of outlying land, abandoned buildings, and old buildings that had completed their economic life. In this sense, we have created healthy and habitable urban models, especially by calculating areas of urban transformations, by determining risky areas, by determining reserve areas. In particular, I would like to point out that the entire process was carried out in accordance with the Public Contraction Law, and there was serious urbanization in this area. Especially with the construction of the subway station in that area, the land sold by Ankara Metropolitan Municipality to Tokyo has been announced by TOKI, but has not been sold many times. THIS land, which the TOİKİ (TİKI) has announced, was later purchased by the Real Estate in a way that would not be harmed, and a legal action has been carried out, again, with the public interest taken into account by the Real Estate. All of what happens here is a transparent legal procedure under law and regulations, no need to look for a calf under an ox. We are a sensitive political party in such matters; the AK PARTY is also a political movement that has the ability to control itself, in a position to look for the calf under the ox when necessary. In that sense, it was against the law. If there is a claim, the courts are open, the republic's prosecution is open, the necessary can be done. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit03spe0072par0053	Thank you, Mr Cora. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0072par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 14th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will begin negotiations with the Law Bill and Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Report, which ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the National Defence Commission and Foreign Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 479 and the Foreign Affairs Commission Report, ranked in the third place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 142 and Foreign Affairs Commission Report, ranked in the fourth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 361 and the Foreign Commission Report, which ranked in the 5th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 477 and the Foreign Affairs Commission Report, which ranked in the 6th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of Law Bill 463 and Foreign Affairs Commission Report, which ranked in the 7th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 457 and Foreign Affairs Commission Report, which ranked in the 8th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 461 and Foreign Affairs Commission Report, which ranked in the 9th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 464 and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 10th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We are starting talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Foreign Commission Report on the Perpetrator's Law, which is ranked 11th in line with the Government of Turkey and Agreement for Co-operation in the Forestry Area between the Government of the Republic of Niger. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 367 rows. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the first speaker on the entire bill is Adana MP Muharrem Varli. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0073par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're discussing the bill for international agreements. Of course, when it comes to international agreements, I'd like to reminisce about the problems Turkey has experienced and share with you a few comments. In particular, Turkey is trying to be compressed and held under clamps by both the European Union and the United States in the fight against terrorism. They have a tremendous weakness for terrorist organizations because they want Turkey to face greater challenges by supporting and raising these imperial forces in this fight because these terrorist organisations are fighting to carry out their own pawn and their goals on Turkey. Now, the United States, you know, is a country built in the new century after geographical discoveries. How did the United States of America come about? After the Americas were discovered, the United States was formed into a community of nations where many of the Spanish, Germans, French and European countries were sent and placed. Who lived there? Because there was no American race, there lived Native American Indians. Unfortunately, right now, even the Indians can't read esame, and they don't even have it, so it's impossible to see an Indian community in America right now. They've destroyed both savage and barbaric Indians, and now they're trying to teach the world a lesson in humanity and humanity, they're trying to do the life of the world, they're trying to teach the world a lesson in good words, human rights, democracy, and so on, unfortunately, Turkey is one of them. We're fighting terrorism right. It is Turkey's greatest right to fight the terrorist who shot our soldiers, our police, our teacher. It is not the right of anyone to put pressure on the state of the Republic of Turkey to do so. At this point, until the end, the Republic of Turkey will use its power and determination, make sure everyone knows that. Now, let's remember the 9/11 attacks. In 9/11 attacks, I'd also like to say that when we're in 9/11 attacks, we're cursed wherever terror comes from, wherever it comes from. It's not our job to support terrorism or stand up for terrorism. We curse terror wherever it came from, we curse 9/11 attacks, but after 9/11 attacks, America invaded Afghanistan and the Taliban a threat thousands of miles away, and then occupied Iraq, supposedly, in the name of democracy, in the name of freedom, tried to give it a design. US troops are still deployed in Afghanistan today, still occupied by America in Afghanistan. As for Iraq, he also occupied Al Qaeda, using terror as an excuse. So you will see Iraq, Afghanistan, Al Qaeda, and the Taliban, as a threat to you from 10,000 kilometers away, but we will not see the YPG, and the PYD, as a threat to you, trying to build it right under our noses! We won't let that happen, and of course they're a threat to us. We too have to show the best power of the Turkish nation and the Turkish state in both Afrin and Syria against all the elements that pose a threat to us, to our country, on Iraqi soil. So today, the powerful states of the European Union are trying to teach the United States, Turkey, a lesson in democracy, trying to push Turkey back from the fight against terrorism. These are the countries that should have said this last time. When you look at the dates of the European Union countries... look at Spain, there are colonies all over the world. Look at Germany, it has colonies in many countries. France, Belgium, all have colonies in many countries, especially African countries. They've transferred all their wealth to their own country. If the countries of the European Union are rich today, if the United States lives in wealth, and the people there are prosperous, it's only because they exploit other countries' rights to other people and move them into their own country. For him, we have never been a colonial country or a society - thank God for our history. We went to Africa, we served, we went to the Middle East, we took services, we went to the Balkans, we took services. No one can say that the Ottomans, Seljuk, and the Turkish states before them, the Turkish empires have exploited us, of course they have taken our resources from us, they have added their wealth to their wealth. But for America today, for the powerful states of the European Union, anyone can say that because there's an obvious fact. But now they're up -- it's about Turkey -- they're trying to squeeze Turkey into terrorism. On the one hand, the PKK's terrorist organization, Syria's YPG and PYD, and Turkey will not fight them! Of course he'll fight. If you feel that you have the right to intervene in Afghanistan from 10,000 kilometers, you have the right to intervene in Iraq, then of course I have the right to intervene in Syria and Iraq. We shall have no account for it, nor shall any of us be held accountable for it. Now, we have to protect our own kin. Of course, both our Kurdish brothers and the Yezids who live there, and the Keldanis who live there, and the Turkmen who live there, all of them are our brothers, we have to protect all of them, but we can never accept one's superiority. That's the way we look at Kerkuk. In particular, our president-in-chief of Kerkuk has said this in the group's speech -- we have stated that there should be a separate autonomous zone without commitment, and at this point we say that we desire the territorial integrity of Iraq, that Iraq should remain one state, the whole state, and that's where all our work lies. Again, we say the same thing about Syria. The disintegration of Syria is not for Turkey, it is not for our nation; Syria is for Turkey to remain whole. For him, it would, of course, be in the interest of our nation and our state to operate on Idlib, even if necessary -- Afrin, if necessary. We have to fight against any force that poses a threat to our borders; we have to show the determination of the Turkish state, the Turkish nation. Again, I want to make one more thing clear here. Today, those who feed the biggest terrorists in their own country have no right and no right to interfere in the internal affairs of other countries. What country does Fetullah Gulen live in today? In the United States of America. Who's protecting you? The United States of America is protecting it. For him, the United States of America has no right to stand up and do this, and you do this. He has no right to teach us a lesson in democracy, and we have no obligation to them in this matter, by the grace of God. We are a great state, a great nation, a great country; in the interest of our country, we are obliged to carry out our own policies and proceed in that direction, and howl at its end. If we can't do this, if we don't have a say in Idlib tomorrow, if we fail to fight the forces that threaten our borders in Idlib, we'll never have the right to do so within our borders, and maybe we won't have the power. For him, the state of the Republic of Turkey is right and is on the right track. In that sense, we support the government's decision and the Turkish soldier's decision and their operation there to the end, and we say, "God help them." My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0074par0066	Thank you, Mr Varli. The second speaker on behalf of the groups is İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0075par0071	Thank you. Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. I'd like to take this opportunity to discuss these international agreements with you a few issues regarding the government's last 15 years of international orientation. My dear friends, that's how I see it, and a lot of researchers have written about it, and I think you've read about it. During this 15-year period of power, the Justice and Development Party has been thrown at very different extremes, both ideologically and geopolitically, as well as internationally inclined. But, roughly, we can pick them up in three groups. The first term, as you know, was the period of the Justice and Development Party's holding, the period of legitimization. At that time, we could describe the Justice and Development Party as a moderate Islam, Islamic liberalism ideology, and the appropriate geopolitics is a Western geopolitica, or even ultra-Western geopolitic. You've followed policies in harmony with the Western world, democracy and neoliberism. In particular, I stress neoliberism, you've never given up on these neoliberal orientations, because your neoliberal orientations and the insatiable appetites of the communities you've brought to power somehow match. Dear friends, Turkey has experienced significant changes in this period; studies on world expansion, democratisation, towards the European Union; you remember, this period, as it is every semester, you've done tremendous extremities in the beginning, and we know that fireworks have exploded in Ankara. Then things changed, different things happened in the world -- I'm passing through in private -- you evolved into another era. In 2007, in particular, the established arrangement you later lived in, the achievements you achieved as a result of the conflict with the system, the government, gave you self-confidence, and you entered an ideology that we could call the second term, leadership ideology, leading the Middle East, Islamic world -- which we would hardly call Panislamist populism. A number of events have also led to these events -- in 2009, in Davos, and then on May 31, 2010, you evolved into a different ideological orientation and a different geopolitical position, especially in December 2010, in the Arab world called the Arab Spring. In the Middle East, with populist outputs, a leader, a hegemon, we can define it as bonding to the economy and geopolitical gains. You've been a great populist in there. In that early era, democratic orientations, rights, freedoms, pluralism, have gradually gone backwards; instead of more monogamy, majorityism; instead of the first period of self-restraint, temperance, and so on, there are patterns, such as hyper-emotion, and eventually we see an authoritarian, majority Justice and Development Party in the second period. In this period, the claims of civilization, such as Ottomanism, were dominated by what we call the restoration of civilization. Then things didn't go as expected in the Arab world. Turkey's Panislamist orientation also disturbed their tight relations with the West, and some incidents took place. And that I can't manage these things well, like the travel events, the December 17th or 25th that happened later, and you didn't manage them very well. Meanwhile, you and the Justice and Development Party government's failures in some way led to the collapse of the Arab Spring, the terrorism of those Arabs' quests for justice, freedom, democracy, the great overturning of Syria, the turmoil, the internal conflict, the cost of this to Turkey -- especially what happened in Egypt -- have been a tremendous disappointment. In the process, the Justice and Development Party slowly evolved towards the third ideological orientation, starting to shrink its goals; retreating, slowly shifting from Panislamist geopolitics to Eurasian geopolitics, again slowly from Panislamist ideology to a militant, nationalist Islamism, not necessarily defined, but slowly evolved towards approaches. You've come to Turkish Islamic synth, beka problem, and a defensive psychology, you've endured. This meant mandatory scale reduction, scale reduction from leadership policies. You had to revisit those Neosmanian or Ottoman policies, give up the vision of that jihan empire slowly, and the need to return to even narrower Misakilli... There have been a lot of incidents that have accompanied this period. One in particular is the July 15th military coup attempt and the extraordinary state behind it, and then they're as lawless as the rest of the world. Of course, in the meantime, you've traveled on different axiss; you've tried to find a place on the Islamic-West axis; you've tried to put weights on the Sunni-Sii axis, and now you're playing games on the NATO-Russian axis. You're opportunistic all the time, my dear friends. So you're trying to create geopolitical opportunities in every period, in every context, and you're trying to make economic gains here. But I'll tell you what I'm going to say later: all these ideological orientations for you, all these tools and all these geopolitics, rhetoric, emotional overloads, they're not all a tool; they're not all a fundamental goal; there's a position like this: to stay in power, to promote internal policy, to maintain power. By the way, of course, power has been going on for 15 years, but it's also a matter of debate about the basis of the Justice and Development Party, human cost, human resources in Turkey, and the cost of economic, international relations in general in the country. This is the central right, which is a periodical ideological orientation for Turkey, which is actually your foundation. That central right has three ideological legs - pragmatic liberalism, moderate conservativeism and secular nationalism. You've come to claim to change these things, but in no way have you changed them, redefined them by recoding them in an Islamic tone. In the end, there's nothing the Justice and Development Party has actually done in this fifteen-year period that it's been able to do and produce so far and so far. Events such as liberalism, conservativeism and nationalism, which you have Islamized for you, are actually important concepts, ideological orientations that have their own history, their own time. You didn't change them, you didn't have a chance to change them. You did the same thing for the institutions, you didn't change any of the institutions you complained about, you changed the people in it. You've reproduced these ideologyes and these approaches in some way by painting them in an Islamic tone, but you've said these things for any purpose or other, and you've made them subservient. So the AK PARTY comes to us as a very special, private party of what we call the postmodern era, which is able to mediate everything to stay in power. From this framework, not only ideological positions, but you have also mediated geopolitan and foreign policy orientation, dear friends. You didn't actually lift anything, so many people criticize you. You picked it up, you put it back. This is an image. So you didn't make any revolutions, no big changes. What you're doing is trying to transform almost all fields from ideology to foreign policy, from economy to history, symbolically and semantically into the shadow of Islam. The bank and interest are stopped, so you didn't touch the bank and interest much; you had big claims -- I'll give you this as an example -- and you went on your way with names like the Islamic bank, or something like that. Why did you do that? It's not because you like banks and interest, no, it's media. You're a pragmatist team. You kept using them because you saw them as toolable tools. There's the same thing about ideology. In all three years, you've Islamized liberalism, populism and nationalism -- these secessive ideologyes, Islamic tones -- so there's nothing in particular that you do, my dear friends. You set out on the charge of building an alternate civilization, but with an alternative, bizarre modernity reading, you produced melancholy, ground-to-earth, a schizophrenic sense of history and ideological arthritis, my dear friends. Fifteen years of Justice and Development Party have been thrown into ideological orientations such as Islamic liberalism, Panislamist populism and Islamic nationalism. In line with these three ideological positions -- I've just expressed -- three separate geopolitics -- ultra Westernism, Panislamism and Eurasian geopolitics. These were all vehicles, my dear friends. You look like you're standing in an Eurasian geopolitica right now, but what winds are going to blow tomorrow, what's going to help you stay in power, you're going to evolve into something else by doing that -- that's what's at the root of your inside and outside trust issues, my dear friends. There's no doubt that in the political identity of the party and the staff and the whole of the rhetoric, there have been serious changes in relation to these transformations, these swings, there have been bends, there have been swings. Each period, these three ideological and geopolitical orientation periods have offered the power as much opportunity as the world has, but the cost of the country is growing every day. Throughout these three periods, the Justice and Development Party has reached all the ideological and historical coordinates of right politics, and has done things everywhere; there is no unspoken commitment, no untested opening, no unprovoked excuse, no unspoken set of emotions. You've used everything, everything, nothing you haven't used. I don't think there's any other part of the world, as a team like you didn't come to Turkey. In spite of that, my dear friends, you have suffered every period of emotional extremities, mental tendencies, and principled inconsistencies. Of course, it's interesting, although it's worth working on: the Justice and Development Party remains in power. But at what cost does he stay in power? What is the cost of this in terms of Turkey's human resources, Turkey's international relations, its economy? Who's gonna pay the bill for this? That's another argument. Right now, the Justice and Development Party has lost convincing claims, not only about Turkey, but about the world, but about the region, my dear friends. It's a really terrible discrepancy. So, on the one hand, you're my caliber? Who are you? They say they're going to get together in a year with a leader who's being humiliated or something. They're going to do some work together. This loss of credibility, of course, is growing more and more inside and out. What are you standing on, my dear friends, inside and out? You continue to survive conflict, tension, pressure politics. It also prevented the Justice and Development Party from providing a reasonable and consistent democratic change in the integration of the Justice and Development Party -- other than an ideological extremism -- from one geopolitical opportunism to another geopolitical opportunism. Maybe it's a hundred years of human life savings, the economy, whatever it is, the power, the power, the power, and the never sharing of power, you've spent it all, you've destroyed it, dear friends. Do you realize, from one angle to another, from one expression to another, from one moral position to another moral position, a collective, strange mind has emerged, trying to defend the new position every time, friends, and something schizophrenic has emerged. So six months ago, a year ago, the political staff that made excuses for something else, and the integration behind it, today, they had to come up with other reasons. It's called ambivalans, my dear friends in psychiatry, a serious problem. That, my friends, is the highest cost of the Justice and Development Party to the country. I've said it again and again: you've wasted over a hundred years of growing, changing, changing, democratizing, ripening, trying to give artifacts, stamping a period of manpower; you've made them into columnists, triggers. The cost of these, of course, international relations, the cost of economics, the cost of domestic peace, the cost of Turkey being one together. It's the wrong policy you've made recently because of the referendum in Iraq, and especially the language and emotion set that you've used, my dear friends, you've done to this country what the PKK campaign has not done in 40 years, and that's the worst thing you've done to this country, you've cut our Kurds completely emotionally and mentally; it's going to cost them, it's going to cost them, it's going to have nothing. Dear friends, you're really great! It's not about ideological orientation and geopolitical position, but about other areas, you've always invented one person responsible for what comes out of your mistakes. So he did it, the U.S., Barzani did it, Iran did it, Russia did it, we didn't do anything. Here, the rules of engagement and so on; somehow, somehow, you dropped Russia's plane, and then you said all the way to the world, and then I gave the order. I went to the hills and sent strange people to Russia. And by the way, you're wasting your political and intellectual staff in a great way, uploading the bill for an era and sending it to someone else. Davutoglu, for example, is a very typical example, but the last time we had a very interesting, really schizophrenic situation. Mr. President came out in Istanbul -- speaking of urbanism and so forth -- he said: "We have betrayed this city, and we continue to betray it. I have a responsibility here. So, friends, did you notice today? You've been told so much for 15 years. Well, you're noticing today. So, who's responsible? Minister of Environment and Urbanism came out, and he said, "The CHP is responsible for this." Ya, you guys are awesome! I mean, it's really not like you guys to have a cast, and you're going to be great. But let me put it this way, my friends: all these emissions, all these stops you've come to stay in power, all these contradictions, melancholics, schizophrenic ambivalences, all that stuff; these, yes, they'll be able to keep you in power for a while, but this country, our future generations, it's going to cost us a great deal, and it's going to cost us, and it's going to cost us this political team. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0076par0096	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor. Mr. Sky, you've entered the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0077par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, with honor and honor, I'm continuing my duties as a member of parliament, and I'm also ending a process of happiness and excitement in taking office at our party. Starting from the last year of the 24th term, which I have carried on for nearly three years, I am now calling off my three-year term as vice president, the 25th and 26th term. On November 19, 2015, we took over a position in the parliamentary election of the Republican People's Party as the deputy leader of the group. Although our mandate ended on November 19th, we, the Republican People's Party, today have elected our members of the group, our deputy speaker, our administration chief and clerk members, through the elections that we have made in our internal system. Of course, our other friends will begin their duties by reading and voting in Congress when their turn comes. However, it is our duty to hand it over after becoming a newly elected friend, a duty of our political kindness, our culture. In the elections we made today, Sakarya MP Mr. Engin Özkoc, İstanbul MP Mr. Engin Altay and Manisa MP Mr. Free Special Party have been elected as group vice presidents, taking sufficient credit and vote from our group.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0078par0105	Good luck with that.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0077par0106	So we've just performed the handover ceremony in our own group of vice presidents room, and I'm happy to hand over my mission to my dear brother, Sakarya MP Engin Ozkoc, and we've all brought him to Parliament. As stated in the petition we submitted to your chairmanship, I have left the position of the group's vice president. From now on, our Sakarya MP, Mr. Engin Özkoc, will represent the Republican People's Party as the third party's deputy president. I wish my friend the success of this mission, and I would also like to welcome my other friends, Mr. Engin Altay and Mr. Free Special. In doing so, I know that we owe a separate thank-you to our Parliamentary Speakers and to our Parliament Speakers and to our other parties, to the members of the group of the AK PARTY, to the group members of the National Movement Party, to all the members of the group, to our MPs, and to all the members of the other parties, and to all our colleagues, and to all of our members, and to all of our staff, in your presence. In the line of duty, of course, we were excited sometimes, and sometimes our voice grew. In that understanding, our goal was not to break anyone's heart, but to do the opposite, in a sense of great responsibility, but if I still have friends to break your heart to, I apologize to everyone. I would like to express my thanks to you all again in this painting, thanking our new friend and other elected members of the group, and thanking each and every one of my friends at all parties for their successes, and thanking you for giving me this opportunity to speak. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0079par0111	Thank you, Mr. Sky. I'll give you an opinion, too, but first, let's make a promise to the members of the group. When Master Erhan arrives, we'll promise him. Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0080par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. We thank the members of the group, members of the Council of the People's Party who have worked so far in the Republican People's Party for their efforts, as well as the chief of the administration, the clerk member and the Speaker of Parliament, who are members of the Council of Ministers. In addition, we wish the newly elected friends success in their work. We hope it will be good luck to our House and to our country, we believe in it. I'd like to congratulate my three co-chair friends again on the belief that this change will serve freedom, democracy and peace in the country.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0081par0119	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Kerestecioglu, you're in the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0082par0123	Mr. Levent Gök is my friend from school and term and has been in politics for many years. I wish for him to continue to fight for rights and law in his next life and continue to work in that direction. I also wish him a more peaceful and calm life. And good luck to our newly elected, re-elected group president friends.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0081par0126	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0083par0129	Mr. President, thank you. Being vice president of the group and a member of the Presidential Court means taking on a delicate task in the fundamentally complicated way of politics. Because it's important for members of the group to respect the rights and laws of their party and to establish this equation, especially by upholding the rights and the law of the House. It's important to be civilized, to be kind, to be elegant, to contribute to the work when it comes to it. Mr. Levent Gök has been in charge of this mission for three years, and, in fact, not just as the group's vice presidents, but I'm sure the friends in the House know very well about Mr. Sky's civil and elegant attitude. We thank him very much. Politics is a long run, and Mr. Levent will surely keep running. I wish you the best of luck to the newly elected Republican People's Party candidate for the Presidential Court in today's elections. Mr. Engin Altay, Mr. Free Special has been re-elected to be the vice president of the group, and I wish them all the best. I'd like to welcome Mr. Engin Ozkovic of Sakarya, and wish you a successful term as the group's vice president. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0084par0137	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0085par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. We have newly elected friends in the Republican People's Party Group as a result of today's elections. First of all, I say good luck to Mr. Engin Ozkoc, and hopefully, he'll do it very successfully. I congratulate Engin Altay Bey and Free Special Bey on their reelection, congratulations, congratulations. I'm just saying good luck to our other friends at the Presidential Court. Of course, by the way, Mr. Levent -- we're new in Parliament -- he's been on this mission before us, he's started. He was a friend of ours who we were very pleased to work with, a compromiser, tolerant, warm friend. We thank him for his work so far, the National Party of Action Group. As a colleague, I would like to express my great honor in working with him. We wish him success in his future political life, thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0086par0144	Thank you, Mr. Master. The Minister has a request, but Mr. Secretary, Mr. Ozkoc wants one, so let's hear it from him. Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0087par0148	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have had the opportunity to serve my country in the new post, which my group has offered me, outside of my duties as a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in the honor of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, along with the precious members of the other political parties of the Turkish National Assembly. I hope that with my dear friends, I will have the opportunity to serve both our House and our country in the way they truly desire. I thank them very much for the precious words my friends have delivered to me. I would like to present to you once again the honor of serving in this House. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0086par0151	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0088par0154	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the CHP group's deputy presidents have been elected. Of course, there are now two Engins; a new Engin Bey and Engin Bey have now come between them. Congratulations, I wish you a continued success. Of course, Mr. Levent Gök is also kind, indeed, a brother we've known very well here for three years. And I wish him the best of luck in his next life of politics. May he be blessed and blessed. And we, the government, will give you all the support we can.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0086par0157	Thank you. Mr. Sky, I'll give you my opinion. We, the Presidential Court, wish our friends, who have been newly elected and have left their post, especially as a result of the Republican People's Party's election today. I would also like to say to the newly elected Mr. Engin Ozkovic, that we really hope for success in the future political life and the leadership of the group, and that we will work together in harmony. Mr. Engin Altay, Mr. Free Special, they've also served as group presidents in the past, and they'll continue their duties. Once again, I wish them all the best in their new mission. Mr. Levent Gök, we've been acting as group presidents for a really long time, and you're actually a very constructive, understanding, disciplined man. So we thank you for your efforts before this, your love for us, your respect for us. You've been a really good vice president, and I hope we have friends who won't call you, and I want to wish you that. I wish you great success in your next political life. I hope you come to the best places, Mr. Sky. I, once again, wish all my new friends in the Republican People's Party the best of luck. [[Applause]] Members of parliament, now third speaker on the entire bill, İstanbul MP Celal Doğan on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0089par0173	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been delivered a very undramatic but very gentlemanly mission. I, too, offer my best wishes to our friend, Altay, and Special, and to the newly elected Ozkoc. And I wish you all the best in your future political life. I told you at a meeting earlier that what we're talking about is no more than my point of view, or rather, it's not a subject. I think it's imperative that the Constitution was made due to a ruling on the introduction of international contracts to parliament due to the 90th article, and moreover, in the previous constitutional amendments, I think that's the point where the opposition should be cut off, especially in matters you've been wasting time talking about. I wish you could take more time and time from the other place because we're talking about a technicality. The international issues are determined at a certain point in technical matters, and they come here as approval. Other contracts, usually already secret agreements, other serious agreements between governments don't come here. To illustrate: After the 1950s, secret agreements between Celal Bayar and the United States came out thirty years later, the deals that are resolving today, especially to İncirlik Base in Turkey. The bilateral agreements between Abdullah Gul and Powell were only leaked to the press eight years later. So many of our friends, unfortunately, have deviated from the core of the issue, or, in fact, given up their work of expressing something, began to talk about the issues of the daily agenda in comparison. So speaking of contracts, at least I felt compelled to say a few words about it. Here I felt more compelled to say a few words about the anti-emperical calls of the spokesman for the National Movement Party and the anti-American, anti-European talks that have recently been happening in our country. It was February 6, 1969, even February 10, 1969. American 6. I remember when the fleet wanted to land in Istanbul. I was a student at the time. 6. Representatives of the right-wing mentality continued to accuse all of us of the anti-emperical acts of the fleet's non-progression to Turkey. Being an anti-empericalist is a political line, not a revelation that comes in a day, not something you'll wake up on in a day like a stone. I see that in their youth, the Sea Travelers and their friends, the children of our 69 and 68 generations, who have accused people of fighting anti-empericalism, are trying to manipulate politics with anti-empiralist slogans that will be their replacement at that time. Being anti-emperical is a true line, a beautiful line, but it depends on you building politics where you can carry the load. Yesterday, when you had another collaboration with the United States, Russia, I would like to close this point by saying that it is not useful for the country to move to the anti-emperical line in terms of whether or not there is a conflict of interest today. Recently, one of the most talked-about issues in the days is the talk of our President, or rather the style and procedure of the mayors in the EC PARTI that has allowed them to step down. The mayor's office, from my point of view, is a very sacred mission, and when I came into the world, when I thought about it, I had two desires: I wanted to do my job as a lawyer, and I wanted to do my job as a mayor in politics. Because mayoral office is really the understanding of a free mind to run that city, and it's like a painter, the mayor must be set free. It shouldn't be like a multi-husband Hürmuz, mayor. So he must be free from an understanding of numerous guardianship authorities and individuals, such as the sword of Damocles. Therefore, while mayors' arrivals and departures are based on the law, we need to explore the landscape that we face today. I called him a lawyer, and I really wanted to be a lawyer. I was a lawyer for ten and a half years. I'd be a lawyer if I came into the world again, but I don't think I'm going to be a lawyer any more. Why don't I think about it? Because I have seen with my eyes that the prosecutors and judges, who I will seek rights before him, have come to the point of being deprived of their knowledge, knowledge of the law, and knowledge of their savings, that their education is inadequate. This is called careful attention, and I want you to watch and follow this, especially from our fellow ruling lawmakers: 12,000 to 13,000 judges and prosecutors in this country have been kicked out of the ranks. That's right. The procedures are certainly legal, and I have no objection, but isn't it because you expect the judges and prosecutors you've replaced to distribute justice? You sent it to make sure that justice and law were done. They're so incompetent that I'm putting aside your partisanism, your instructions... the courts' decisions are written for reasons, and the grounds are based on the analysis of witnesses and events in criminal cases, and if it's a legal case, it's based on written documents. See, I'm telling you the verdict of a criminal court, which says, "I sentenced you to two to five years." I'm talking about a signed, finalized court order. ▪ Where does two and five years come from? It's the law. The law has ruled the judge's discretion. You can't distribute justice, you can't deliver justice, you can't distribute justice with a judge who's 26 or four months old. That's why you pay attention. Surely there is a serious lack of justice in this matter... in the matter of freeing us from prejudice, at least from judges and prosecutors who are equipped with information. It's a very serious effort. Especially if the judges and prosecutors in this court have become political... because we don't have a very good history in this matter either... from the will courts to the state security courts, to the martial law courts. The tools of the court, which hanged Deniz Gezmişi, were one maviser and one Gizkale pistol. They didn't even have the means to take down the government's customs, but those friends, 26 years old, were executed in the name of the Turkish nation by the court of the Republic of Turkey. Therefore, if the judgment is political, it is futile to seek rights, to seek law. Unfortunately, I see you've come to the point that without the fact that we have two co-Chairs, nine of our MPs, without the one sentence they say on the stand, we haven't been able to bring them to trial for 15 months. In addition, three or four of our MPs, unfortunately, who don't know how to count, have been condemned by judges who have spoken such words as eight years, four years, ten years, and so forth. Therefore, we complain of justice. The way to settle this complaint is through the construction of a full legal state. When you say a full legal state, the Constitution is at the top of it. There's no chance it's an unconstitutional and illegal country. Now, for days now, the main opposition party, other parties, TV programs are screaming out loud, sir, as if the resignation of mayors is not legal or illegal, or there are those who argue about its legality. For God's sake, isn't it in the Constitution how the prime minister came in this country, how he went? Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu, wasn't elected by 49 per cent? Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu, have you seen a young man who has been involved in this Parliament, has he received a vote of insecurity? No. What happened? It could have been fabricated, called in, resigned, called in, given willingly. I don't want to wear a handle with any other interpretation. What'd you say? This way, Mr. Ahmet. This way, Mr. Bali. You get out of this car, and you get in, Mr. Bali. Didn't he try? With this understanding that the prime ministers have changed in an environment where the Constitution is in effect, you have forced five mayors, plus 1 mayors in Turkey, and there is not much to discuss. Why? That's what willpower wanted. Well, don't these friends have the right to law because it's what the will wants? Yes, but it's also something that comes from a politician's personality. Politicians, do these people deserve it or not? What would his reaction be if he didn't deserve it? I'd like to give you a few examples, if I may. Turkey is founded in 1979 as Ecevit government and publicly as Turan Sun foreign minister. I'm a member of the group board. Ecevit called Mr. Sun. He's got an hour and a half left. The other ministers left in ten minutes, five minutes, an hour and a half. Why did yours take so long? We said, "Why did yours take so long?" He offered me the ministry of justice, and in public, my name is Turan Sun, the minister of foreign affairs. What he said to the late Ecevit is that if you don't consider me worthy of the foreign ministry, I don't accept the justice ministry you're offering. The sentence is exactly like this and does not accept the ministry of justice. Hasan Assat Iş, Minister of National Defence, came because the Chief of General Staff walked two meters in front of him at a ceremony -- such as these friends' farewell ceremony -- has resigned from the ministry. I beg you, despite all my insistence, I am a elected minister, and I cannot walk behind the appointed officer. For what I'm saying, I was very young, I was 34 years old, and at half past eight in the morning, he called a legendary name to the mountain like Ecevit, and he said: "Mr. Doğan, I want to work with you in general management. I am a member of the group board, sir. I already work with you. I said, I want to work with you. I'm asking now: is there a minister in Turkey, including this period, who has been approved since Özal? Our friends are probably learning from television, mostly from radio news.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0090par0192	How do you know?
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0089par0193	Do they know about the riots? I don't...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0090par0194	I've been a minister for ten years, and you're wrong...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0089par0195	I say it in all humility, but it probably did, because the way it came, the way it came, it's not consensual. Now, if you'll be so kind, you'll have to live on mortgages. For that reason, when the mayors came to this office -- as Mr. Tayip said, as the President said -- who showed them? He showed me. Well, does he need to be brought down by his rights and law because he showed it to me, or should he be? No, not that either. Well, one word from these guys about the rights and laws of the people who voted 50,000, 100,000, 3 million, 5 million votes for them, my friend, I've come for five years, and if I have one crime, I want to be tried, I want to stay on this mission. Is there anyone to say anything? Don't think it's a provocation against Mr. Ki Tayyip; never think of it as an incentive to rebel against the mayors. You know why? The name of this move may well be the Purge, or the name of this move may be the regeneration, or the name of this move may be the new tiles on the road to success in 2019. Any excuse can be said, but the status of these friends is now at a much lower level than the HDP mayors. What is it? Today, all HDP mayors have been dismissed by trustees -- there are those in prison, there are those out there -- at least all of these are suspended mayors. What is the status of our friends who have been resigned or resigned from this mission? And then there's their explanation, which is interesting: no one can stop me from being loyal to my party. He doesn't want you near them with your ball and your rifle, and if you're a fire after you're gone, you'll burn as much ground as dirt, what's the point? What's the point? [[Applause from HDP rows]] For what I'm saying is that there's a delicacy in politics, a person's personality, a person's personality, a party's personality is very important, of course, and dignity is important, but we have family, we have children, we have relatives, we have salutable people, what do I have to do with my honor? If this honor is no more than the weight of accountability, then this is how you surrender, that's one. Two, I'd like to tell your group about my personal complaint. You don't treat us like MPs, you don't rule us, your government doesn't treat us like MPs. We can't use our constitutional rights. I can't go visit a friend in prison without permission from the Minister of Justice. Yeah, well, that's humane, so we'll look at it face-to-face tomorrow. You didn't come to me on my most difficult day. How am I supposed to face the man who says, We're going to have to get permission, and it's not allowed. Ahmet Yıldırım told us yesterday that we are overwhelmed by the greetings of our friends in the prison where CHP MP friends have brought us and visited us. CHP MP, he's leaving whenever he wants, MP MHP goes if he wants, the AK PARTI MP can visit any prison he wants, but if you're HDP MP, you're on leave. I'll tell you something else about myself, if you'll excuse me, I beg your pardon, but there isn't much time left. There are very valuable mayors in Turkey, Osman Kakuncu is the Mayor of Kayseri, Nalçacı is the Mayor of Kolya. They've been called diamonds for years. It's not nice to flatter myself, but I left a brand city. I don't have a fortune, friends. I'm not the rich mayor. I'm saying every penny of this, the 32 inspectors brought in, after winning the mayoral office of the AK PARTI, and after being Minister of Abdulkadir Aksu, I'm saying it with the result of a thorough investigation by 10 inspectors for three years. I didn't touch the Beytulmah, and I'm on it, and I'm on it. But I tried to leave a great city. In fact, it was my greatest prize: When I went to Kayseri, where did you come from? They said you have Celal Doğan. They said, I went to Denizli, wherever I went, you have Celal Doğan. The citizens told me. My identity with the city has become my greatest fortune. In the meantime, I thank God I was able to win that title. But I left a great city, a city with squares. Show me a mayor who has a challenge of 100,000 people. I just left an 11km park in the city, right and left, around the sewers in a city. It wasn't enough, I left a 191 million-foot zoo in the city. I've left four organized industries, one trading center. When I left, Gaziantep's head, or rather, exports were up to $7 billion, and the city was planned according to 2040. But perhaps the arrival of 450, or even 600,000 daily, of our Syrian brothers, has changed their plans. But with its infrastructure and its superstructure, I've worked every inch, every word of the Metropolitan City Law that's being implemented today. I stayed at the Patalya Hotel with the President for seven days. It's an excellent law, but the mayors... don't they lack the perfect law? I do. It has to be fixed. I think you'll probably bring a change. With the authority and resources you give when we're done with those flaws, the mayors are the prime minister of his district if they're hardworking. They're skilled enough to compete in their cities, so they'll appreciate it. Sir, services may fail in some of the cities. Why? The mayor must fall in love with his city, treat it like a child. How, or rather, how your children flourish in your hands, the mayor, who falls in love with the city, flourishes and expands it. I find our President's latest statement is justified by his complaints about Istanbul, Ankara, especially from the vantage point or from the skyline point of view. A mayor, such as Mr. Özhaseki, has no right to interrupt his self-responsibility just to send a message elsewhere, when there are at least some mayors who would like to learn from him. So -- maybe I did, but -- let me finish with this... (mixophone turned off by automatic device). It's nice to be mayor.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0091par0209	Mr. Dogan, come in, complete.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0089par0210	It's much better to leave with honor. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0091par0213	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. Now on behalf of the individuals, Mr. Ruhi Ersoy of Osmaniye... Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0092par0218	Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, today we as a group are being held in different parts of Turkey -- as part of its death anniversary, as part of its activities, as part of the year of yesterday's anniversary, as part of its death, as part of the 1993th year. And we would like to start by reminiscing about it as a community, and we would like to use that time to understand and make sense of the Republic of Ziya Gökalp. Members of parliament, born March 23, 1876 in Diyarbakir. Of course, it's an old calendar-new calendar based on calendar changes, but when we look at his passing, in 1924, 1876-1924, he's a contractor who leaves very important artifacts, not only works, but has the ability to influence his surroundings with his actions. In particular, nationalist intellectuals who ponder over ways to save the empire in the chaos of the period and the process of legitimacy of the Ottoman era -- three in Siyasset, Yusuf Açira -- in this sense, which idea is at this rescue point; in which he writes letters to his wife: nationalism, nationalism, Ottomanism, and the same way that he recognizes Western civilization, and studies sociology from Durkheim sociology, and pondering over the history of civilization, and constantly studying its history, and in which he writes letters to his wife in prisons; and shows that he has a habit of reading and reading himself in which he is often in prison. And with those letters he wrote to his wife, the influence of Ziya Gökalp, who integrated the dungeon and the world of meditation into the republic, was Mustafa Kemal, my father, Ali Riza, my father, but the idea is Ziya Gökalp, my father, is the source of the republic's reference at which point he might say. Now, while the republic, founded on October 29, 1923, has just completed its age, its interest in the funeral is found in the history records of Mustafa Kemal, who received the news of the death of his father, Ziya Gökalp, when he was 1 year old. Of course, that's not all it takes, it's providing all the basic needs for her family and getting them into protective custody. Well, why is it so important, Ziya Gökalp? Ziya Gökalp was a native and national person. He was a man who could bring nationality to the universal. He presented the work of Turkishism, Islamism, Intervention, and expressed the theme of Turkishism, especially in terms of aesthetic Turkism, with its details on Turkishism. Why is Ziya Gökalp important? Ziya Gökalp is actually the address of our problems today. Ziya Gökalp is a Turkish intellectual from Diyarbakir, and in that sense, he had no ethnic, racist understanding that was nowhere in the Turkish community and that we did not allow as a party. Ziya Gökalp talks about national discipline in the subtitles of bedii Turkism, and describes the nation's speech as a community in the common language that is matured in the same discipline in the climate of common culture, including national and national discipline in tradition and history. Some of his work came out after his passing, especially after explaining what phases he was going through in the history of Turkish civilization, especially after explaining the wonderful approaches in Turkish religious history, considering the conditions of his period, we see that he was a very advanced intellectual, intellectual. The systematic sociology of Ziya Gökalp is referred to by Ziya Gökalp, the social changes of Mümtaz Turhan (Mumtaz Turhan) in the tradition that we are part of during the later period, and then Erol Güngör is removed from that tradition. But when we come to the modern world, why can't we actually produce a sociologist and social psychologist, such as Ziya Gökalp, Mümtaz Turhan, Erol Güngör, in this sense, we have to look for answers to the question as a society? We can't understand society if we systematically flood sociology into polls and remove it from social psychology and cultural context. The basis of many of the problems that we face today is the fact that we have been exposed to this delayed modernity and that we need to remind again that there is an intense need for work -- again -- to be able to understand a cultural schizophrenic state that is stuck between this delayed modernity and the early postmodern wave. Now, the name of Ziya Gökalp (Aziz Gökalp) is not mentioned in any part of the book referred to as the fundamentals of Turkishism, but in one study, when he tells the story of races, he has a race of horses; he says horses have teeth; to determine age, race, and story. This is the story of Ziya Gökalp, of Diyarbakır, and this understanding of Ziya Gökalp, is also an expression of what the common denominator of Diyarbakır-based Turkey could be, but we regret to inform you that in the area where the tragedy occurred, the Ziya Gökalp House in Diyarbakır has been asked to be burned down and destroyed. I'd like to remind you that Cahit Sıtký Tarancı... is from Diyarbakır, not just about Ziya Gökalp....that Diyarbakır is a city of civilization....there is another fact that we see in the background: that when the Greek army fell into the sea during the national struggle, people in Diyarbakır would hang their dowry, young girls, their dowry in their chests from their windows, and display it, displaying their ornaments, their wings, by displaying their homes on the street, to express their happiness. There, we have closed shops, we have poured out the enemy into the sea. They celebrate. That shop closing incident is for happiness and the happiness of throwing the enemy into the sea to celebrate the national union. And in the same country, it was the story of the Cypriot invasion and the same move in the Peace Corps, where I would go to the fight. The question is, what happened to us? In fact, the answer is an expression of how we were exposed to the operations of imperialism, which should be searched at Ziya Gökalp, where, as of today, the wearer fell down and the bald appeared, or, in some way, the operation of imperialism. So it's an expression of those who have a big Armenian dream with the ASALA, who want to build Mount Ağart (Ağret), who, after their dissertation has collapsed, take out the focus of betrayal by scratching the PKK terror organization instead of the Armenian thesis, and who, without realizing it, put in the state the well-intentioned and sincere mutilatory of the government, who have the capacity to produce for domesticity, nationality, or to invest in brands that don't suit their own interests in Turkey, how we've been subjected to operations on a global siege in a whole form. Of course, didn't we have any faults here, no flaws at all? Of course you did. We were not expressing state-run authority among the state-state, the understanding of status quo in relation to the nation, but of the state of the nation, despite the nation. I've recently expressed in a speech -- the idea of Turkish nationalism is the expression of Dündar Taşer, who were chosen in the process of becoming the state of the nation -- they come, they come, they come, they tell them that you can't come after this, or they can take a step out of the game. We had problems with such internal dynamics, of course, but the ones who produced these internal dynamics, the ones who left them in the status quo, the ones who ran them through the global system, they've become very clear these days, Congressman. So today is the time to rethink the common denominator of the Ziya Gökalps, Mustafa Kemal Ataturks, through state-national integration. And we don't adopt the names of these First Assembly-Second Assembly debates as a group. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is one, one; it has its first term; it has its second term. So the first accent of the Clave spirit, then the notion of distinguishing the House... we're against it. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in its entire form, is on this side from the day it was founded, and as of today, we represent the 26th Age. I hereby remember Ziya Gökalp, and thank you for listening to us on behalf of our party group, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0093par0233	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. On behalf of the individuals, the second speaker is Balıkesir MP Mehmet Alli. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0094par0238	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to international contracts. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, foreign policy is not like domestic politics; rather, it affects the fate of the entire nation. In foreign politics, that party, that party can never be segregated. If there's a mistake out there, it's not just you who'll pay the price for it, it's 80 million. If you can't maintain a stable political stance in foreign policy, investors won't come to your country, you'll never be able to achieve the economic growth you're expecting, and your tourism will collapse. The main reason for the economic crisis in Turkey today is not only that AKP is not able to manage the economy well inside, but also that foreign policy is failing. In recent years, you will not see a single example of AKP's success in foreign policy. In outside politics, inside and out, we will expand our friendship. You said that, but you have not left a friendly country at the moment. You've made our country more and more lonely in the world. By making enemies, no country has ever survived history. Your foreign policy has always been based on condemning first, then coercing. You said the Palestinian case, you sold the case of the martyrs to Israel for $20 million. There is no need to mention the period of my brother Assad. Just yesterday in Syria, you said "Killer Esed", today you want to be with Assad's allies, Iran and Russia. So far, you've been chasing dreams, not facts, but things that can't be realized. Four years ago, your only success was to illustrate the example of congregation schools abroad, and today you attribute the failure to the lobbying activities of GERPs. You said we were deceived, but you deceived millions of people who believed in you. Ladies and gentlemen of law, there is one question I would like the ruling members to answer in their own conscience: Is there a single policy that for fifteen years, the AKP (AKP) who has ruled the country has not been deceived or deceived? Please answer this question. Do you have a single foreign policy move where people who oppose you are wrong? For example, were those people who said Syria's policy would lead to disaster, those people you silenced by saying "Estor, homeland," wrong? Of course not. You agreed that Syrian policy was wrong. Deputy Prime Minister Numan Survivor said the Syrian policy at the time was wrong from the beginning. As you admit, millions of people have suffered from the wrong policy, a whole country has been destroyed, hundreds of thousands have died, and millions of people have had to leave their country. What's worse, a pack of killers, you left a terrorist organization in our country's lap. For example, change your attitude towards Russia. Were the critics wrong today when the Russian plane was shot down? First, we will conquer Moscow. You said, "Don't do this. Turkey is already in a bad relationship with the West, and if it is broken with Russia, it will be a big problem for our country. You have accused those who say, "It's treason and cowardice." And then what happened? We didn't drop it for the plane, we apologize to Putin. You cobbled it up by writing a letter. What happened at the end of the wrong policy happened to our country, and our reputation went down to nothing, and millions of dollars went missing, and we had a government that couldn't break the promise of Putin. There is a visa crisis with the United States. Today, in Germany, following Austria, our citizens are being smelled by dogs at the airport. Doesn't that really make you blush? Are you really not bothered by this situation? Your foreign policies have destroyed Turkey's reputation. Today, what happened in the north of Iraq, what happened in Syria, Israeli policy, US policy, the crisis with Germany, you have declared yourselves unjust, traitors, enemies, heroes. Because of your attitude towards the Iraqi administration, you left that area to the monopoly of Iran and Russia. This society is paying a great deal for your mistakes in foreign policy. And now we're saying the same thing, not to make foreign policy the object of domestic policy, but to think about the interests of Turkey, of this country. Instead, you're being thrown around by day-to-day policies. Dear MPs, when your President Erdogan went to the United States, you and your fellow media had the holiday spirit. America is our strategic partner. You've made headlines in the media for days. Now they're punishing 80 million of our citizens with a visa order. I thought you were America's strategic partner. For months, you've only taken steps to protect Reza Zarrab, so why don't you try so hard for 80 million? As for your work, you don't give up nationalism to anyone, but when America puts a sack on our soldiers, you don't say a word, when there's too much reaction, and when you're told a note, you make fun of it? When Greece invaded our islands, you didn't say a word. All of this has been the result of your mistakes in foreign policy. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has never been ruled by such a bad foreign policy in any time in its political history. AKP's wrong policies cost the public $30 billion. Today we're talking about Operation Idlib. There's El Nusra in Idlib, who the whole world sees as a terrorist organization. We all remember that Erdogan asked each time, "Why do you see El Nusra as a terrorist organization?" We have not forgotten that Putin had asked Erdogan for El Nusra. Now we send our troops to Idlib to guard against a blood-soaked horde of murderers. Turkey, of course, has to ensure its own safety, but who brought this bloody organization to this point? You guys brought it. Whoever brought El Nusra to this point is responsible for the martyrdom of the soldiers, and you are responsible for them. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, give up this course at once. Because of your political mistakes, this country is struggling with the economic crisis, the diplomatic crisis. Even though a more rational, peaceful, logical way is possible, it can never be achieved by making enemies. The esteemed MPs, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and Brent Ecevit, left us with a legacy of diplomacy in foreign policy. You guys lose your diplomas all the time. Don't make me pay more than 80 million. Take the words of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, peace in the land, peace in the world. Abandon sectarian, racist policies and act with rational and long-term moves. Do not be an instrument of imperialist politics in the Middle East, nor use our country. Don't leave our country in the ring of fire with you. This geography needs more peace inside and out, more democracy, more freedom, more the brotherhood of the peoples. I salute you all. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0095par0252	Thank you, Mr. All. Congressmans, we are not going to do the QA right now, and I'm going to submit the draft to your votes. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, as it is known, the title of the bill is read and processed along with Article 1. As the talks of the drafts begin in today's merger, the title of the bill will not be read during Article 1, not to be a precedent, as the party groups agree and there is no action. However, the report will include the title of the bill during Article 1. It's for your information. NIJER REPUBLICITY REPUBLICATION REPUBLICATION REPLICATION CONTROLATION CONTINUES THE CONTROL OF THE CONTINUATION OF THE ODICTIONAL ACTION OF ODICTION Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Niger between the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Turkey was approved on 1- (1) 8/1/2013. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the first word on the 1st article belongs to Mr. Dilek Ocalan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0096par0263	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have to have a sustainable foreign policy of every government. But for a long time, in Turkey, we can't talk about a healthy, politically predictable, stable and sustainable foreign policy. Turkey has shaped its foreign policy in recent years through continuing internal polarisation on the outside. This leads to the deepening of the Syrian civil war, the unresolving of the Kurdish problem inside, and further increasing the conflict. In recent times, Turkey, the United States and the European Union have changed largely, its relations with neighbouring countries have broken down, and it has taken a position in an authoritarian and antidemocratic practice. The economic and political cost of these problems in foreign policy, as always, are forced by the people of Turkey to pay the most heavily. If the government wants to overcome this troubled situation in foreign policy, to strengthen the economy accordingly, it must start from the inside. First, the AKP must end its palace rule, antidemocratic practices on democratic politics, and again its aggressive approach to public will. The issue of the resignations of Ankara Metropolitan, Balıkesir, Bursa, Niğde and Düzce Mayors is on the agenda, starting with the request of AKP President Erdogan. In fact, the fact that power and its media force the mayors to resign is made to look like a natural, normal process. It's not possible for us to accept that the last voter will be ignored so easily. If they resign on the grounds that they have committed corruption, there is no problem, and if they do not, the consequences will be severe. The approach is not a form of democracy, nor is it ethical. If the mayors are corrupt, if they have the files as they say they are, then the authorities will investigate. These documents must be brought to justice. Whether these documents are resigned or not, it is a crime in itself to use them as a means of blackmail or not to be put on trial. We principlely continue our stand against the abolition of the will of the people, our stance that the one who comes with the election as part of democracy must go with the election, as we did yesterday. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to refresh our recent memory of the municipalities on the grounds that the mayors have resigned. 674 a year ago. A trustee has been appointed to the 94 DBP municipality with a vote rate of 65-95 per cent as of September 11, 2016, based on the provisions of the Law. The co-chairs have been arrested on grounds of small talk, defamation of the law. We call it an excuse because for almost two years, there was nothing found in these municipalities where the Ministry inspectors camped. However, it is good to remind you that nine of the trustees assigned to these municipalities were dismissed shortly after due to corruption, or trustees were appointed to the trustee. Dear lawmakers, the DBP municipalities, where the will of the people has been seized and appointed trustees, have had policies and studies that have disturbed the AKP's president and power more than corruption, unfair gain. What are these studies? If we look at women's studies alone, one of the first things in the DBP municipalities is to switch to the co-chair system, which is one of the most important mechanisms for politics and social life in 106 municipalities. Again, women's councils and women's co-ordination were selected to actively include women in the decision process in municipalities, and the municipal women's councils of employees were formed, and women's co-ordinates were selected to carry out the legislature's practical work. Again, women's equality commissions, women's and men's selections, and women's groups of women's groups, which women's elected women's work had come together to evaluate the agenda. Women's policy heads were established in the Metropolitan municipalities; women's policies were established in the municipalities. In these offices, women's economies were also established, and women's education was developed, and combating violence. Women's shelters have been opened within Diyarbakır Metropolitan, Van Metropolitan, Bağlar Municipality and Mediterranean Municipality as part of the violence fight against the women, Diyarbakır Metropolitan Station and the Alo Violence Line has been established. In 43 municipalities, women's centers were opened, many courses were given for women and women's demands, education in many areas such as gender, forced marriage and health at a child's age. As reported by the United Nations Office of Human Rights, these centers provided protection for women and children who were victims of domestic violence and encouraged women to participate in social and political areas. Again, production workshops for the development of women's economies have been established, women's labour assessment centers, women's neighborhood markets, and the opportunity to present to women what they produce to the market. Preschools have been opened, women's sports complexes have also created opportunities for women to exercise. These are the policies and studies that are disturbing the AKP's president and his power. In the DBP municipalities, women's co-chairs were arrested in the first place. The common presidential system has been eliminated by the appointed trustees. The work of women's policies directorates and 43 women's centers has been halted. Even the archives where special information for women applying in these centers has been confiscated. The goal is to end the gains of women's and women's struggles directly with local governments. According to current data, the number of women co-chairs from the 71 DBP co-chairs still under arrest is 27. Yesterday (October 25th) was the 1st anniversary of the detention of Diyarbakır Metropolitan Co-Chair Mr. Gültan Kışanak and Co-Chair Mr. Fırat Anlı. From here, on this occasion, I give our regards and greetings to all the co-mayors and all the elected members of the city who were unlawfully arrested by the civilian coup of the AKP court. Once again, I condemn these policies in front of you, against the abolition of local governments, local democracy and the will of the people. Dear lawmakers, of course, the most basic achievements of the AKP's palace rule are women's work, but it is not limited. The trustees, appointed to replace the will of the people, try to one by one to destroy all cultural and social activities that the municipalities have brought into existence. The trustees have either closed down or changed their activities in various municipalities, libraries, cultural homes and centers. For example, many day-care centres have been assigned to the districts and districts and have been converted into Koran courses. The service has been blocked in the main language, and the service has been Turkished. In many counties and counties, DBP municipalities have not hesitated to change the names given to neighborhoods, parks, despite the public. Again, various sculptures, monuments, and symbols were destroyed during the DBP municipalities. The AKP's goal is to erase social memory and make assimilation a current policy by means of local trustees. In essence, it is clear that the government has no problem fighting corruption and open capture. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, half a minute...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0097par0278	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0096par0279	One of the most important evidence that fascism is institutionalized at the moment Turkey has arrived today is the government's policy of local governments. So that Fascism itself will not allow any local autonomy, nor will it accept any government other than its own protection. Dear lawmakers, the main objective of all these attacks against local governments by the AKP's court is to establish a regime change by centralizing its power in the hands of one man everywhere. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0098par0283	Thank you, Mr. Ocalan. The second speaker on the 1st article is İstanbul MP Izzet Ulvi Ölter on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0099par0287	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, the Turkish nation, the state of the Republic of Turkey, is struggling with a very intense stay. There is also a struggle with traitors, terrorists, Turkish and Turkish enemies. In the multidimensional struggle with terrorism, especially our brothers and sisters in the field, our struggling children, our friends' expectations, their demands are growing in parallel. Currently, in Turkey, in almost every corner of our country, across the border, our sergeants specialise in many geographys are fighting terrorism, defending Turkey's rights and law without fear. I send you my best regards and love and respects to all our senior sergeants, and I say, "May God bring them into existence." Our special sergeants, of course, are fearless, heroic, but unregistered, but unwarranted. However, they have problems, they have demands, they have wishes, they have victims. My dear friends, as the National Movement Party, we have shown all the democratic struggle we can, hopefully, to solve every brother's problems, who is active and believing in the fight against terrorism, and we will continue to show it. The bleeding wounds of our special sergeants, the cries of our specialist sergeants, the expectations of our special sergeants. I am a man. I have a conscience, which says, "I am a man." It disturbs every one of us. Now we have to solve these issues, these problems. Now, on October 3rd, we had a brother named Mehmet Kızılca, a 21-year-old Karaman. Mehmet Kızılca was an expert corporal. Twenty days later, after leaving his home in Diyarbakır district of Yenişehir district, Bilal Dicle was our son and our brother was an expert sergeant, unfortunately martyred. My dear friends, I point out to you that, for God's sake, let's solve this problem, these brothers don't have gentlemen's pistols, they can't defend themselves. The terrorist, the traitor, our heroic expert corporal, our expert sergeant, can't answer to the traitor, can't resist, can't defend himself. Our expert sergeant gives us tanks, gives us cannons, gives us machine guns, gives us heavy weapons, and our expert corporal, our expert sergeant, uses them expertly, expertly, heroically, but we don't give our brothers who use such heavy weapons to defend themselves in civilian lives. Put your hand on your conscience, please consider, how did we lose Mehmet Kızinca, how did we lose Bilal Dicle, how did we martyr these brothers? In Article 13 of Specialist Private Law 3269, it says that these brothers will be given their weapons in exchange for the price. Friends, whether we remove the 13th article or change the 13th article, after we remove it, let's give our executive sergeants their service pistols free of charge with an administrative savings. Tell me if we have a saintly MP who can call it that, if we have a son of a country, I beg you. I, a friend of yours, as your brother, am deeply distressed and shaken by these testimony. They can't defend themselves. There's no limit to the message I'm receiving, they're all screaming. What don't we spend money on, what don't we fund? We've got about 80 grand of our sergeant sergeant brothers. These brothers and sisters say: "Give us our armory pistol. " From whom do we get the price of what? They're at the top of the bill, but they're at the bottom of the prize. There's no way to accept it, there's no way to make sense of it. My dear friends, I am speaking to the Justice and Development Party and I am speaking to the People's Party of the Republic: I beseech you, this is the Law 3269 which holds the hand of our senior sergeants in Article 13 of the Law, who stand in front of you, who can't defend themselves. Look, we're sitting here in comfortable seats, but right now, someone's standing guard on the mountain, defending the country. In Idlib, in Başika, in Afghanistan, in El Bab, in Cerablus, almost everywhere in our country, our sergeants are fighting for this nation. We've been trying to keep it on the agenda for days on national television and newspapers. I'm asking our friends to solve the problems of our special sergeants together. Of course, under the rule of Law 3269, the contracts of our special sergeants. The age of the contract with the Law of 676 has also increased from 45 to 52. So far, there's no problem, but our almost 80 thousand expert sergeants have a contract for the national defense? What kind of work is this, friends? Our friends want a cast, they're as good as their mother's white milk, is that too much to see? On the one hand, we say there's a beka struggle, but when the martyrs come from the minister to the MPs, everyone runs, cries, shares the pain; we say, "He won't stay in the ground." We say, "We'll drown him in the blood." We say, "We'll drown him in it." But we don't hire our expert sergeants, we don't hire them." The bag comes out of the law, let's all hand it over, side by side, honor the rights and demands of our sergeants of expertise, hand over the gunmen and give them their staff at no cost. So now our special sergeants perform their duties until they're 45 years old, and after their physical inadequacy or duty period expires, they earn their pension by serving in any public office, but after retiring, they don't get any rights as a civil servant to be an expert sergeant. It's not fair, it's a Tenakuz. My dear friends, we've been to individual courts on this matter, and our special sergeants have decided from the courts, but it's not common, it can't be disseminated, it can't be spread. Let's listen to our special sergeants for a minute, let's hold their hands. My dear friends, expert sergeants are heroes. Man grows up in the cradle to lie in the grave, and heroes die to live in the homeland. Those who die, who die, who are ready to die, are our expert sergeants and other heroes. Please, I beg you, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I express this: let's hear the demands of our special sergeants, who are waiting, and let's do it. I thank you all in advance, and pay my respects. I'm just saying, hopefully, our sergeants' problems will be solved. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit04spe0100par0299	Thank you, Mr. Orender. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0100par0001	I now open the Fifth Session of the 14th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 367. The commission and the government are in place. Now, in ten minutes, we're going to do the QA on article 1. We'll ask the members of parliament to ask questions within five minutes, and in the other five minutes, we'll ask Mr. Secretary to answer. The first to enter is Mr. Engin. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0101par0008	Istanbul is a city as unique as its natural beauty, with its historical structures and its long-standing institutions that we inherited from the past. In Istanbul, where the unprecedented historical image of the world was destroyed by skyscrapers, the love of concrete has now set its sights on historic Sustainment School of Trade. Nearly 5,000 students are denied the right to education so that a shopping centre and residence can be built on the site of the historical high school. Now, I ask you: why do you continue to betray Istanbul? When are you going to hear the voices of the students, the parents, and the Shivvy residents fighting to keep their school from falling apart? Do you plan to prioritize education rather than concrete?
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0100par0010	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0102par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, if we look at Article 5 of Article 367 of the Charter, which is being discussed, it contains the title of Article 5 (Personal Property Rights) and is written in the last sentence of this article, July 14, 1967, Stockholm. It's understood to the naked eye that if even a primary school student entered Google, the name of a capital had been miswritten before it had been written... in a sloppy and irregular way. It's my request... that the law be written in such a sloppy and disorganized manner is not a technical error. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0103par0015	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0104par0016	My question is Mr. Minister Erogluna. Since 2011, we have been lawmakers, the problem of watering Malatya's biggest problem since 2011, the problem of water. Sadly, because people suffer from dehydration, in Malatya, the sewer pipes break and the apricot trees are watered, causing the apricots to dry. You know, you've had a lot of complaints about it, but unfortunately it's still a problem of irrigation in Malatya. Malatya is probably one of Turkey's most important agricultural cities, but at least it's not fixed. Also, since there is no decontamination in the second organised industrial zone, wastewater has finished agriculture in many cities, such as Dilek, Shahnahan, Topsukut. If it doesn't work out this year, you won't be able to find apricots in Malatya in the coming years. The number of apricot trees dehydrated this year is estimated to be 1 million. I'll let Mr. Secretary know that we expect the attention we need on this matter.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0105par0019	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0106par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. Is there going to be administrative judicial judges opening up every year by the Justice Department, which graduates of the Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences have been constantly asking for? Another question, Mr. Secretary, is that the European Court of Human Rights has been called to the interview twice by the European Court of Human Rights representative of Turkey and the government for replacements of Mr. İsil Karakaş, the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, on the grounds that it is not qualified by the European Court of Human Rights Judiciary Elections Commission. The candidates on the 3rd list were invited to the interview, but the candidates were rejected by not being qualified. What's the stage in this crisis? Why does the government not recommend qualified and qualified candidates?
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0107par0023	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0108par0024	I'm asking the Prime Minister: Our country is suffering from political, social and economic difficulties. Due to the policy of tension followed by the president, unexpected relations are taking place within our country and outside the world. Our reputation is getting a little lower every day. In our country, investments have stopped, jobs are down, unemployment has increased, and the market has begun to shrink. Our budget remains short, our foreign trade deficit continues to increase. The growth you defend is unrealistic, but it is a fact that it is based on consumption, debt and import. Then will you need new economic measures and any measures to reduce these tensions? As Prime Minister, are you going to stand by and watch these negative developments, or are there new measures that you think about and plan? When will trust be provided in our country? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0107par0026	Mr. Kayan...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0109par0027	Thank you, Mr. President. The D 555 territorial road connecting the provinces of Edirne, Çanakkale, Cırklareli and Tekirdağ is still 70km away, and this road still serves as a single lane today. I'm asking the Minister of Transport here hundreds of factories... these factories, the textile factory, the glass factory, the agricultural factory, the factories that produce agricultural vehicles, especially the factories that export abroad, they use this way all the time. This must be a double road. Is there any study, if there is, to make it a double road, where is it, if there isn't? Why doesn't it exist? I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0110par0032	Thank you. Mr. Secretary... In fact, Mr. Ministers, it's your turn to speak.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0111par0035	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, thank you. In particular, we have completed large projects, dams, and projects related to Malatya. For example, right now, the Turgut Auto Dam Watering is being done very quickly. I recently visited Malatya. You also know that the Recai Kutan Dam continues to water. The construction of the cloverite Dam continues rapidly. We've laid the foundation for a lot of pond construction. Congressman, of course, there are so many ponds and irrigations that I'll also send you a memo in private. So we've declared this year, next year, in Malatya, a year of action in the irrigations. It's already been requested... the Malatian citizens have arrived, I've listened to their demands, we'll fulfill them all. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0112par0038	Well, first of all, I don't know anything about what our congressman asked us about this Şişli Industries vocational high school, so let me submit it to our Ministry of National Education, and they'll answer it to you in writing. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0113par0040	Please, it's urgent, because for days, parents, students have been waiting outside the door, and they want their school not to be destroyed, not to have malls and residences built there.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0112par0041	I get it, all right. Mr. Tanal had a saying about the carelessness of the law. Mr. Tanal is written as he reads in the State Department's agreement text. For example, Washington is not used in. We're trying to write the texts in our own language, for the sake of reciprocity in international relations, for your information. Regarding Mr. Agbaba, our Minister has responded. The question of Mr. Özdemir is: will the Justice Department take an administrative judge? Of course he will. Our work at this point is being carried out in the eyes of our Justice Department, and hopefully they'll be able to tell us when and how much they're going to get soon. In other words, you have made a statement to the European Court of Human Rights regarding the failure of judges. Now, look, there are already regulations on what criteria and what qualifications these judges should carry. Our country has sent judges here in accordance with these arrangements. Of course, you know how the European Union and its boards have been acting towards our country lately. I think it's a good idea to evaluate it. Thank you. Mr. Arslan said that political, economic, social tension... the budget deficit continues to increase; will you take any precautions? Mr. Congressman, first of all, I would like to say that as Turkey, we are always acting according to our own arguments and arguments. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, every statement they've made, they're basing it on this. If there's an activity at some point, if there's a point, they're considering our own arguments and arguments. Besides, Turkey, you know, has been run by the AK PARTY authorities since 2002. In fact, I think we've grown three times as big as we've been since the time when the AK PARTI powers began to rule, and I think explaining that is in order. Of course, our investments will continue. From now on, we will continue to work day and night, without knowing the wisdom of our people in Turkey, our citizens, our nation's prosperity. In fact, Mr. Congresswoman, our constituent, in one place, shows his gratitude for the services we've done, and I'd like to present it to you with the results of the chest in the elections we've been in for 12 elections. He also had a question about the Ministry of Transport, Mr. Turabi Kayan.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0114par0051	Mr. Secretary, complete...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0112par0052	It's about something I don't know, I don't know yet, but let me put it this way. The Thracian region is basically my territory, too. Since I was 11 years old, I've been a person who's been passing through the Thracian region into Turkey. Let me tell you, Mr. Turabi, when we went from Isala Customs Gate to Greece for many years, our eyes would be like this, open a little bit more like this, and we would look at how they would send them. Now when we went from there to here, we enjoyed how good our paths were. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0115par0056	Thank you. Members of the law, I now submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. The first speaker on behalf of groups on Article 2 is Adıyaman MP Behçet Yıldırım on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, please.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0116par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I salute my fellow MPs, my fellow prisoners, especially my co-Chairs, my mayors who were appointed trustees, the Co-Chairs of Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality, who were arrested last year. Let them not forget that they are the ones in the hearts of the people, and that they are the heads of our hearts, and that their value is well understood as a day goes by. Their value is much better understood in the public's eyes after recent operations by power to major city municipalities and other municipalities. Now, we're signing international agreements, we're trying to implement them. The international agreements that came here prior to this were usually the agreements that stemmed from the European Union's law of integration, but the result is obvious. International relations aren't just about signing contracts. Most of these deals are about culture and education. But for that to happen, we need to know our history and our culture. The scandal attempts by the Ministry of National Education on the curriculum have been inadequate, which he has already signed a new one. In the book prepared for the 6th class of the Qur'an, the difference between Nemrod king of Babylon and Mount Nemrod, which was considered to have set Abraham on fire. The scandal was not only limited to this, but the sculptures that Kommagene had built at Mount Nimrut, which was independent in 109 B.C.E., were used in the book as images of Nemrut. This is the 8th wonder of the world. Unfortunately, it's described in Koran-dırim class. There's no point in poisoning our young people like this. Adıyaman Nemrut. Nemrod, indeed, is a historical wealth for Adıyaman. This historical process described the differences and geographical differences as the center of unbelief, immorality, and idolatry in Mount Nimrut, which is part of the Toros Mountains in the north of Kahta district of Adıyaman, which is considered a world cultural heritage. I don't want to say anything else. It has become our government's habit to make such a common legacy of human history look like a god, which, in a similar way, you have already signed the work of making the obelisks in a documentary film look like idols in Urban Gobeklitepe. This attitude is the clearest expression of disregard for historical society values. Your government must put an end to this painting of shame. I invite not only the Ministry of National Education but also the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. Like statues destroyed in past years, a few months ago, the two thousand - year - old lion statue found in the Blackbird Tumulion of the Kingdom of Kommagene was destroyed by unknown persons or persons. Again, there's the government's mistake because they're given false information, people think they're idols, they go and destroy them, they try to destroy these beauties, this history. What's going on? What happens is happening to our country, what happens to our Adıyaman. Look at the number of tourists coming in, they've been downsized to say no tourists lately. Adıyaman became a city called ISIS, a living bomb centre, and a tourist didn't come. A few months ago, Zeus Hotel was destroyed, the largest tourist hotel of the Kabadah, because of the end of tourism. Of course, tourism requires a peaceful climate. Unfortunately, we still haven't been able to make peace with the world as it leaps into the age of time. We're going to Germany, asimulation is a crime of humanity. We call it a crime of humanity, but we're doing everything we can to assimilated the Kurds in our country. Here, Şırnak. Guys, please look at this. I went to school to study Turkish. My native language is Kurdish. The ban on speaking to these children in Kurdish... says to a child who doesn't speak any Turkish, don't speak Kurdish. He says, "Don't speak Kurdish." He says, "Don't speak Kurdish." Where does this take place? He's in Şırnak. How can this teacher write this receipt, and where does he get this power? What's the use of this behavior other than instilling hatred and hatred in society? I wonder if power will save a lot for this poor teacher, or if he'll say "Bravo!" or if the manager will do it tomorrow.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0117par0071	That teacher needs to be deposed immediately.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0116par0072	▪ Racism is the greatest crime of mankind. Everyone accepts it, we accept it, and Congress accepts it, but at the age of 80, we watch the mob who attacked the funeral of our mother Hatun, who was the perfect influence of racism, polarization, and at the age of 80, we take pictures, we release them after we keep them in prison for a few days. I say we face these kinds of events, figure out the formulas, the solutions to living together, and then we make international deals. We're doing international educational cooperation agreements, but do we have a co-operation in our own educational system? The TEOG system has now been removed, but its replacement is unclear. So the education system is an uncertain, uncertain, suspended country. No one knows why. We wake up one morning, and I don't like this system, so we say, "Get it up." Again, the palace has been gracious to say, "What is assistant professorship?" There are dozens of academics among you, and the deputy chief of the group is an academic. You've become a professor at great cost, you've made a career. But where did this assistant professor come from? Is there any point in saying, "What's the point of throwing it away?" Have any of you come up with an opinion about this, any criticism or self-criticism, any responses, right or wrong, any criticism? Do we have a system in place? No, his future is uncertain. A program about the future is presented in an arrangement for education and teaching. In this program, the basis for the partnership of all parts of the possible society needs to be created. Therefore, enough public debate must be made, with a very broad consensus, and joint arrangements must be carried out. Otherwise, for the past 14 years, the education system has turned into a puzzle board, which is the future of both us and our children. The fundamental flaws in education are the monotheistic understanding of power, my friends. If you stand up and try to raise a religious and vindictive generation, you will never reach the truth of unity, unity and brotherhood in our country. The religion taught today in national education is based on the Hanefi sect. I'm a Hanefi sect, too, but there are sects in Turkey besides Hanefi sects, different religious groups. Personally, I don't agree with my children growing up to be religious and spiteful with this singular understanding, and I don't raise them that way. I want him to respect other religious groups in Turkey and the world, to respect his people, to have universal values, my child; instead of hatred and hatred, I want him to have peace, love and respect; I want him to love people, take animal love, love nature and love the environment. Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, if you try to design education rather than a common program, just according to your political program, when another power comes tomorrow, this program you're doing will be redesigned by them -- the same way you think. After all, there will be no winners, lost years, lost generations and lost futures. Therefore, I think it would be in the country's best interest to have an educational system, which has been shared by all social communities, rather than a changing education system, with every coming power and even every incoming minister. Governments should only function as coordinators, not by the ministry's hand and local mechanisms, as well as by redesigning the educational system. In fact, a process that operates with manageable autonomous structures will also be a kind of escape from the intervention of governments. Instead of being so centralized, I think it would be better if the AKP removed its hand from education. I believe that wherever the problem is happening, the solution must be sought there and encouraged to be resolved by local dynamics, local mechanisms. Because whether it's health or education problems, it's people who have the best sense of social, psychological, economic, and so on -- in the source of problems. Therefore, it is clear that an application directed from one centre to solve and supervise all problems will eventually lead to the cumbersome of local mechanisms and extend the solution to the problem, eventually leading to unresolvedness. In any field, it is necessary to create mechanisms that operate in the local area, and to develop an understanding of how problems can be solved in their own institutions by considering their own individualities and areas of freedom to address problems. If you have an independent, neutral, healthy judicial system to oversee the work, it will solve the smallest problem in the local area as soon as possible and fairly, or it will not do any good in an environment where there is no independent judiciary to centralize everything in order to address problems in the field of education. Again, the most beautiful system, the best work, the most gracious, the system is bound to become ugly, rot, and even sink, as long as it's done with jobs and transactions, as long as it's done not by merit, but by bias. Throughout 15 years of AKP power, education and education, every institution and institution... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... He says that the measure of merit has never been based on it, that there is a measure of bias and beer, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0118par0085	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Bostanci, you've entered the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0119par0090	Mr. President, I've been promised a brief statement. Mr. Yıldırım spoke about assimilation and, for example, the Kurdish speech written on the board at a school showed a picture of his statement. Not only here, but yesterday and the day before, I saw the need to explain, since this sample was being followed. The political approach of the EC PARTY on this issue is a political approach towards ensuring the voluntary and consent-based partnership of 80 million people in Turkey. And we know that this will be possible with a policy based on social reality, and we know about the milestones of that, and we know that there have been a lot of debates about that in the past. Basically, the kind of assimilation that Mr. Yıldırım was talking about...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0120par0094	Go ahead.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0119par0095	... If there was an application banning Kurdish, such practices would be required in all schools, not in one school. We see that there is no such thing, that it is a pure example, and that the same example is constantly shown. Surely the Ministry of National Education will investigate this. And since it's not a systematic practice, it's necessary to explain that it's leaning on a single sample of purity, and the claim of assimilation, in a way -- other arguments aside -- it's leaning on this. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0120par0097	Well, thank you, Mr. Botanci. Second speaker on behalf of the 2nd article, İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, please.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0121par0104	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I've been promised the international contract we're negotiating on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. I salute the General Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. Turkey faces threats as significant as opportunities stemming from its geopolitical and geostrategic position. Developments in our region are capable of affecting Turkey's direct living spaces. It shows all of us how important it is to have the right to live, to live, to live, and to lead a human life. In the 21st century world, the domination of democracy and the rule of law is expected to ensure basic rights and freedoms, while unfortunately international terrorism, domestic turmoil, international double standards, law violations in the name of democracy prevail. In the process, forces seeking to expand their own network of concessions try to weaken the national identity by scratching ethnic and religious identities under the human rights flag. In this structure, communities that have weakened the minimum partners, unable to establish a coordinated basis for social unity, unable to form a common decision and solution lose their national resistance fortresses. Protecting Turkey from the effects of terrorism and violence in its geography will undoubtedly be possible with the implementation of Turkish national identity, national values, brotherhood law and policies based on the basic attributes of the republic. Turkey, on the one hand, is struggling with terrorist organisations, particularly the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and is trying to prevent the construction of a terrorist corridor, which is expected to extend from northern Iraq to the Mediterranean border along our southern border. Our government will surely not abandon its own security to the initiative of other states, but will take every precaution and implement any threat. In this regard, we give our government, our security forces all kinds of support, and we will continue to give it. At the same time, Turkey must continue its course without disrupting its goal of growth and development, catching 2023 regional forces, 2053 global power targets. For such a goal to be achieved, there is a struggle against elements that threaten Turkey's security, while economic and social problems must be resolved, and the understanding of justice must be dominated. In such difficult times, the establishment of a government system that will be fair in sharing blessings and burdens will build the confidence of the nation to be united as a nation. A social consensus dynamic, which is a common denominator of our state's principles and the basic qualities of our republic, in economic, political and social areas, will also facilitate our ability to use our energy to improve Turkey's well-being, to strengthen our state's nation's community in the nation's community. In this case, I would like to point out the areas of trouble that we find necessary to take measures before Turkey becomes chronic. Economic problems are at the beginning of them. Turkey could not create a healthy and sustainable investment, production and employment chain, even though national and international conjunctural negatives have affected it. The unemployment rate appears to be 10.7 per cent, but is around 16.5 per cent, along with those who are able to work if they are not looking for a job. In this case, the real number of unemployed is five million, five and a half million. The unemployment rate among young people is over 21 per cent. In addition to increasing poverty, it is clear that it cannot be sustained for long due to social problems. Economic problems, such as import addiction, low savings, excessive consumption and waste, high real interest, low-tech production, low-tech production; and inflation, economic problems lead to low and unstable growth, high unemployment, low income and unfair income distribution, high business deficits, low efficiency, private debt, and household debt burdens. Agricultural production and price policy reduces agricultural production at the height of input costs. The failure of agricultural products to be converted into valuable products and the failure to produce strategic agricultural products that we have the power to produce in the world harms both our producer and our national economy. Therefore, effective structural measures should first be taken in the economy to inspire confidence in markets, boost investment, production, exports and employment. A sustainable and high growth environment needs to be established, reducing the economy's external resource dependency to be resistant to shocks. Programs based on fair division of income and strengthening social tissue should be put into practice to stimulate our country's natural and human resources with its own means and conditions. Dear lawmakers, another risk is the destruction of public administration. The cumbersomeness of bureaucracy, the control of understanding of the interests of a political or specific group, the lack of planning on what the government will do with which agencies and what kind of human power, the dissolution of public personnel in appointment and promotions, the confusion in legal and financial status. The most important principle that defines the character of public administration is the principle of righteousness that aims to improve the quality of bureaucracy. Appointments to protect the person, the group or the political group have a very negative impact on the quality of bureaucracy and the quality of public services. Therefore, to start without a public job, progress and promotion must be treated in line with the principles of right and justice in promotion, promotion, and relocation. In order to strengthen democratic legitimacy and strengthen trust in the state, the legal state must be strengthened by preventing reassuring practices such as corruption and corruption. A public administration structure and functioning that meets modern developments in Turkey's long-standing state tradition must be established. In the appointees, loyalty should be preferred not to terrorist organizations, lobbyists, parishes or lodges, but to the Turkish state and Turkish nation. On this occasion, I would like to bring to your attention the important problems of expert sergeants employed in the Turkish Armed Forces and serving in various ranks of the Armed Forces, particularly in the fight against terrorism -- working conditions, financial and social rights, relocation, staff and pension issues, not being given weapons by the government, housing and so on. Of course, these problems are also known to people of interest, and I believe they are also being tried to solve them. However, some of these increasingly chronic problems need to be resolved first and immediately. Some problems do not even require a change in the law, but are capable of solving them with sub-regulations. Please, let's not allow traitors to be left alone with their fate at the end of their shift when we deliver them all kinds of weapons and equipment, who play an active role in the fight against terrorism. First and immediately, let's give them their weapons, provide housing for those who don't have a residence. Our government, without a doubt, has the power and the power. On the other hand, let's eliminate the cumbersomeness of the bureaucracy, the inconsistencies in organization, the legal and financial status complex in the personnel regime, the victims of wages, titles, and mobbing. Let us focus on loyalty to the Turkish country and the Turkish state, not on union preferences. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to point out the destruction of social quality and morality. With the insurmountable sense of public morality and quality and the destruction of national and spiritual values, there is a value of erosion in politics, justice, public administration, working life, and many areas. Corruption and similar abuses undermine the trust of our citizens in public institutions. Again, I'd like to point out an increase in drug use in recent years, including this coverage. Drugs threaten social life and the future of our young people, while their families ruin it. We've got to get our kids out from under the threat of drug trouble. There is a need for a stronger challenge and awareness of families. Fighting not only with dealers, but also with barons is essential. I salute you with these thoughts, and congratulate you on your October 29th Republic Day, which we will realize at the weekend.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0122par0119	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 2. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0123par0124	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with respect. Of course, these international contracts have been brought to Parliament for the last two days, but when I asked the Minister about the technical question, he said: "International contracts are written as read. " I'd really be happy if he showed me an example of it as it was written in other contracts that we've already signed. This defense is not the right defense. Mr. Deputy, yes, it is written carelessly, irregularly; we will correct them. Perhaps it would be a more accurate, constructive explanation. In that sense, I think they're trying to cover it up by mistake, which is not the right answer. As much as possible, really, it would be good for all of us not to make mistakes, so I meant that as a warning. I don't think there's any point in defending the mistake. Dear President, when we look at some of these contracts that we've made with other countries, some of them are called five years, some of them are called ephemerals, some of them say that it can be renewed six months before the process is over. So here, in the middle, I haven't been able to find a proper format in every contract I've ever looked at. Every country has its own method, but as a country, it's also useful for us to set up some reservations in terms of legal safety, my dear friends. Now, from this point of view, we need to become a law state to keep the contracts in effect, to enforce them first. The only way and method of being a legal state... yes, our Constitution is the state of the Republic of Turkey -- the rule of law. In the legal state, executives who run the state must follow the law, the Constitution, the regulations, the regulations, the regulations. So when we don't obey the law, we punish the citizen with sanctions, sanctions, but if the managers don't comply, then there's a joy. So, what does pleasure bring? Enjoyance brings favor in the country, brings in inequality. Where there's profitability and inequality, there's corruption, there's bribery. And when we look at it from this point of view, in a country where there's no legal state, the most important thing is... because it's the sense of justice that sustains countries, it's order. If there's no justice in a country, there's no order in that country, dear friends. The only condition for order is justice. I suppose our guests have arrived, Mr. President, and I give you the right to speak here.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0124par0129	Mr. Tanal, I was going to interrupt, but you beat me to it. Members of parliament, President of the Pakistan-Turkey Inter-National Friendship Group, Minister of Trade and Textiles, Mr Muhammad Pervaiz Malik and his delegation, who are visiting our country, have now arrived at the Assembly. (Applause) We welcome them to their esteemed delegation on behalf of our coven. Mr. Tanal, go ahead.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0125par0138	Sir, we welcome our guests. We welcome them from here. Dear friends, as far as neutral and independent judgment goes, there's been a lot of talk lately about unbiased and independent judgment. So, what happens when judges, prosecutors, take office? There are written tests, oral interviews after written examinations. Verbal interviews have been done in the past with video surveillance. Why would a judge and prosecutor be tested on video camera? It's because there's no favor being made, so someone doesn't have to have a party state. So verbal interviews were really done for the sake of justice of law, but right now, in terms of party favor, verbal interviews in terms of bringing someone into power, in terms of selection and elimination have become a challenge, which I think is the kind of way that verbal criticism brings a huge shadow to the judiciary. So, what do these oral interviews do for the judges and prosecutors who passed? During that internship, they're also paid, their insurance is based on retirement, but when we look at the paralegal interns in the same household, none of our fellow paralegals get paid internships. He says: "A paralegal lawyer will do his internship for free." Well, an intern judge or an intern prosecutor receives his fee and his insurance is also covered by the government. They actually graduated from the same faculty, they had the same education; one was an intern judge or an intern prosecutor, and the other was an intern lawyer. Dear friends, our fellow paralegals in Turkey are victims of this. If our fellow paralegals can be identified as being paid, her internship is on fire. So what's this intern lawyer gonna live on? This is a bleeding wound from paralegals. Just as the intern pays the judge and the prosecutor, the state pays the insurance, the paralegals must pay their salary during the internship period and also pay their insurance, so they must be subject to the same conditions, the same rules. In this sense, the internship period of the paralegals is a chore in accordance with Article 18 of our Constitution. When we look at it from this objective and independent judiciary -- Mr. Secretary is a lawyer -- the other thing is that I received a letter from the Tripoli Public Prosecutor's Office last week... A person will be detained, and he will press charges on charges of being abused and beaten while in custody. The district attorney has decided that there will be no administrative, criminal investigation against the officers under a decree issued under the 9th amendment under the rule of the State of Emergency, which is relevant -- since the state of emergency has been declared -- according to the 9th Amendment, there will be no administrative, criminal investigation against the authorities. I submitted this to another minister who was involved here last week. However, dear friends don't give an exemption from being judged in accordance with the law. Thus, we have removed the interim 15th Article of the Constitution of 1982 in the past, and this Parliament has not brought a new 15th article here. In this respect, these kind of laws must come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey immediately, because the main purpose of the decrees under the law is... The damage to the coup attempt at that time came under the scope of the fight against terrorism, but the destruction of the decrees created in society has created enormous weaknesses for legal security because if there is no legal security in a country, there is no economic stability in that country, there is no political stability in that country, there is no investment in that country. If we want to invest in a country, if we want to increase production, legal security is essential. Because money wants legal security, investor wants legal security. The investor is like a truster, like a coward, looking around, and if he sees a threat somewhere, he'll fly away. The investor with the money looks like a scared pigeon, and if he has legal security in this country, he'll invest, and if he doesn't have legal security, he won't invest. For him, we have to keep the law safe in our country. If we don't secure the law, there's no production, there's no stability, there's no terror, we can't dominate democracy, we can't establish justice. There's no way... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Come... my dear friends, if we rule the security of the law in our country, everyone will remain loyal to international contracts, contracts with other states. I thank you, I greet you and send you my regards.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0126par0146	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. There is no question-and-answer on Article 2. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. The first speaker on behalf of groups on Article 3 is Ankara MP Erkan Haberal on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0127par0155	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute each and every one of you. What has the National Movement Party said so far, what predictions have it made, and how long have its findings and suggestions about internal and external security issues been implemented and what consequences have they produced? Turkey is going through a dark period of threats, dangers and traps, aimed at its future and tomorrow. That's what we said. The circle of hostility around us is shrinking, internal and external security issues are getting heavy. That's what we said. We have stated that our national unity, national security, and national interests are under threat, and we insist that our Turkey faces a very serious problem of waiting. We said that our country is engaged in a relentless struggle against the three bloodiest terrorist organizations in history, the PKK, the People's Party (PKK) and ISIS. We have stated that PKK terrorism stemming from northern Iraq is in progress and that they are continuing their terrorist activities. We said the PYD opened a second front against Turkey in the north of Syria. There's a corridor of terror in the south of our border, and we say that terrorist organizations in our region have gained legitimacy by countries who love terrorism. ISIS has begun to commit acts of terror within Turkey and we say that our country has begun to purge its virus. Regarding Iraq, Barzani arrived at the independence stage in northern Iraq, expanding the Kurdish region step by step with an occupational policy; after northern Iraq, we said the PKK infiltrated Turkmen regions, Kirkukuk, Musul, Sincar and Telafer. The Turkmen geography is falling apart, and our brothers are struggling for a desperate and hopeless life. We repeatedly insisted that the region should not be delivered to Barzani and terrorist organizations.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0128par0158	But now Hasidi has been delivered to Shabi. What do you think about that?
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0127par0159	What we said turned out to be true.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0128par0160	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0127par0161	Barzani was concerned about declaring independence with an illegal referendum, leaving the region with Turkey's persistent pressure and the Iraqi state army entering Kerkuk. The fact that those who occupied the Turkishmen's home in Iraq on the basis of a referendum and hung their flags as if nothing had happened when they saw the Iraqi army, has raised a question mark in our heads, as the President of Iraq stated, has a secret agreement been made public? The suspicion has been raised. All of our predictions of Syria have been fulfilled, and the region has become an area where terrorist organisations, the PYD and the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) are running. Their desire to unite the three cantons in the region and form an uninterrupted corridor of terror increased after their strategic partnership with the United States. The National Movement Party has repeatedly expressed that the situation cannot be accepted, saying that the existence and future of Turkishmen in the region is under threat, asking for interference in the region. The Turkish army gained weight by entering Cerablus, and afterwards Idlib, and at least for the time being prevented the formation of the terror corridor. At the moment, Idlib is completely under the control of the Turkish military. As suggested by Mr. President of the National Movement Party, Afrin and Menbic, the second and third step of the Idlib movement has been provided with the necessary logistics and strategic support for operations. Congressmans, since our relations with Iraq, Syria and the region have been expressed many times by the National Movement Party on this bench, I would like to address our relations with the PKK and the strategic partner of the PSD, which I have just discussed in my speech. Turkish-American relations, the Johnson Letter crisis in our recent history, the arms embargo after the 1975 Cypriot Peace Operation, the reactions of the March 1st thesis, the incident of a low bag on our soldier's head in Suleymaniye. The depression today is far more serious than that. The problems with Turkey and the United States relations are: the US sees PKK/PYD as a strategic partner in Syria, the use of the PKK/PYD as a ground army in the military action against ISIS, and the heavy arms support of the PYD (the United States); the failure to extradite PYD; the failure of US to extradite the leader Gulan (the possibility of asylum) to other fugitives in Syria; the fact that the education activities of the people who are the most important source of money in Syria are able to remain unblocked in the U.S. In addition to these basic problem areas, these have also come to the attention as a factor of tension: the judicial process launched in the United States on the protection of the President; Turkey's purchase of S-400 missiles from Russia; US Congress does not allow the sale of some advanced technology weapons systems to Turkey; Kurdistan's activities in the United States, particularly in the Senate; closer relations between Turkey and Iran; Syria and Turkey-Russian co-operation; Turkish officials's statements against Israel. The United States has stopped visas for Turkish citizens as the latest development of this crisis situation. The United States has suspended visa services in US missions in Turkey with visible and so-called security debates. The next day, Turkey retaliated, suspending US citizens from receiving visas at the border and applying for electronic visas, which we think is a very appropriate decision. The United States implements similar visas to third world states such as Belarus, Guinea, Chad, Libya, Yemen, Syria, Iran and Cambodia. However, practices against these states are based on such reasons as natural disasters, civil unrest and war, unlike Turkey. Clearly, security is not the real reason why the United States made this unfriendly decision to a NATO ally. That's the one that lies behind the next step. Turkey's arrest of Turkish personnel working at the US Embassy in Istanbul has invited this reaction. As a matter of fact, the U.S. Ambassador confirmed it on October 9th. On October 9th, a detention order was issued for a second Turkish personnel. These two Turkish citizens are charged with criminal acts, contact and contact with the prosecutors and police chiefs. The United States is deeply uncomfortable with its official connection to ا. The following assessments will be made, provided there is no final ruling on the connection between the United States and the People's Democratic Party (HDP). The leader has been a guest in the United States for many years under the protection of the CIA. Conspiracy cases have been reflected in WikiLeaks documents where police officers currently on the loose and under arrest inform US representatives on the matter during the investigation. On the night of the coup attempt by U.S. officers at İncirlik Base, their shady relations with coup officers were reported to the press. After the coup attempt, it was revealed that the US consulate was trying to contact Fair Orphan on a private line. Finally, two Turkish consulate officials have been identified as having relations with the prosecutors and police chiefs. As a matter of fact, the delegation from the United States, which began last week with the visa crisis between Turkey and the United States, should be shamelessly given evidence concerning each and every two individuals. At the latest, Czech General Pavel, chairman of the NATO Military Committee, threatened our country with the results of its decision, even though the countries are independent of decision-making, as well as of course the principles of government regarding Turkey's purchase of the S-400 Missile Defense System. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute each and every one of you, saying that with my influence, Turkey should take preventive and deterrent measures against its national security, its national unity, its national interests, its enemies against our country, and its allies, who openly support them, should follow a new strategy.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0129par0179	Thank you, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0127par0180	Shame on you! You're not going to sit here and say, while I'm talking! Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0130par0181	Don't defend the Hasdi Shabi terrorists!
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0127par0182	Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0130par0183	Barzani is legal, has a legal status.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0127par0184	Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0130par0185	Barzani is the leader of the Kurdish people!
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0131par0186	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0127par0187	You can't say one time under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey!
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0130par0188	You're doing it wrong!
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0131par0189	Mr. Haberal and Mr. Botan...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0130par0190	Don't defend terrorists!
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0131par0191	Mr. Botan...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0132par0192	We're not defending anyone! It's obvious who's defending the terrorist! For God's sake! Look what we've been told! Don't defend the terrorists to the MHP. You're saying that.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0130par0193	You're defending it.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0132par0194	That can't happen!
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0133par0195	Mr. Botan, you have a request for a statement according to the 60. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0130par0198	Thank you, Mr. President. Military law enforcement forces arriving at one of the central villages in the District of Özalp, Van. There's a call in front of a house. They're attracting military vehicles called "We'll search the house." After taking civilians out of the house, they get a gas bomb before they enter the house, then a grenade is thrown, and then, after a while, they go around the house and set it on fire, and then they leave the village. So we tried to reach the Governor of Van. Adem Gaveri met with our friend and then the governor. There's a misunderstanding there, and the damages will be compensated. It's covered up in the form of the job, but it's in the images, so it's a serious situation. The government officials are here, are they planning to open an investigation, an investigation into this matter?
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0133par0200	Well, thank you, Mr. Botan. The second speaker on Article 3 of Article 3 of the People's Democratic Party Group is Mr. Bilal Danış Beştaş, MP of Adana on behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0134par0208	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I have made a commitment on behalf of my group on the 3rd Amendment. I'm going to talk to you about a matter of public opinion, which has been on the agenda of a part of the public, which has been discussed for a long time, which directly concerns Turkey's democracy, peace, future, peace, and the isolation conditions that have been held there for 18 years. First of all, I'd like to share the legal situation with you. Ocalan, who has been brought to Turkey with an international agreement since 15 February 1999, based on international interest relations, has been held in a solitary cell for 18 years. It was used not only as a prison, but as a change -- you know -- as a place of trial; the court was established there, and it was presented as a place of trial. After that, it was not already established its legal status, there was an internal regulation, and it was described as a prison in Imralı Island, a high-security one-man prison, along with this thing. For decades, he remained in prison for decades, meeting only with his lawyers, with no one to stand by him. In the final analysis process, five people were taken to Imralı Island, and then, unfortunately, two people who were found on Imralı Island after the solution was completed, on December 27, 2015. He's been transferred to Lu Prison. There was no interview with the lawyers for a week about those referred prisoners, and they were taken there against their will, and they appeared in talks with lawyers again. They were prisoners of, Nasrollah Koran, and, Arkash,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. Well, who's there now, under the circumstances? Everyone is in their own cell, except Mr. Ocalan, Omar Hayri Konar, Mr. Veysi Aktaş and Mr. Hamili Yıldırım. Now, dear lawmakers, why am I telling you this? Because right now, Imralı Prison is a prison that is unique in the world, positioned as a prison, and is now a prison that is forbidden to communicate with the outside world, all contact with the outside world. Where do we get that from? For one thing, let me give you the following figures: The last lawyer meeting took place on July 27, 2011. Again, the last political delegation left on April 5, 2015, and again -- this is the last meeting after the CPT. -- on September 11, 2016, 50 politicians were able to meet with their brother, Mehmet Ocalan, after the hunger strike of different parts, and in that meeting, he again submitted his request for peace and peace to the public through his brother. In particular, after July 15th, the isolation situation has been aggravated. Scholarship 1. There's a decision the Justice of the Execution has made before the decree is issued. In this decision, the date of the decision: July 21, 2016 -- banning visitors' admissions, restricting written communication and phone calls, restricting foreign relations, visitors' admissions, and restricting documents from convicted attorneys again. Before this decision, it was not possible for lawyers and family to go to the ground because of the actual air opposition, but hundreds of requests to meet after this decision have been dismissed by the decision of the execution judge on the grounds of this decision. Now, in a painting like this, right now, there are rights available to prisoners and prisoners already in different prisons in Turkey. What is it? Once, there is a family opinion; the second has a lawyer's opinion; the third has a phone call; it has been downloaded once a week with the KHKs in 15 days. Again, he has the right to fax, write letters -- twice as a contractor -- and he has the right to see three other people besides his own family. None of this is currently being implemented, even though it has a legal right, and in an illegal and illegal way, in a way that violates international decisions, all rights have been denied. Now, in the first six months of 2017, only 56 lawyers applied for an interview and 25 family visits were submitted to the Bursa Execution Judgeship, and on the same grounds, the decision of the judge was rejected. Now, this painting is obviously... and here's the thing: in the family view on 9/11, it says something like this. I've written a letter to my lawyers, and this letter has not reached its attorneys so far, more than a year has passed. The CPT did not disclose the results of its meeting on 28-29 April 2016, since Turkey did not approve. Even after 15 months, we still don't know about the CPT.'s observations at Imralı Prison, and according to the information the lawyers have given us, all applications have been negatively answered. In the meantime, I'd like to remind you of a European Court of Human Rights ruling. On 18 March 2014, the ECHR combined four applications and said: "There is no sanction from Turkey, as there is still no sanction from the Council of Ministers on this decision, until the end of its life sentence, torture and abuse. Dear lawmakers, I'm trying to explain with this framework: There is no other prisoner and prisoner who has not been heard for this long, according to our investigations, according to the investigations of the legal bureau of Asrın, lawyers of all countries around the world. There's no news at this time. Whether he was alive, healthy, or being held there, he was taken elsewhere; indeed, society has a great concern and concern about his outcome. There are hunger strikes in prisons right now, and in the face of this serious painting -- of course I can't tell them, but I can't -- we know very well from the statements made to the public from different sections: let's remember the 2013-2015 years in which Mr. Ocalan took over. Everyone had great peace, great hope of looking to a great future with confidence and building Turkey's peace, brotherhood, democracy. Where are we now? Right now, these feelings, these thoughts, they're all messed up. Ocalan isn't just Ocalan, that's how we need to know. We're not just talking about one person, we're speaking here as a spokesman for the people's demands. I support it. What millions of people say is will. We're talking about a person who, as the leader of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has said that armed forces have gone out of bounds. It is also his decision to remain in isolation there, to forget peace to the community, to forget equality, to continue the war. Let us never forget that the Kurdish issue in Turkey is not resolved by war, death, destruction, denial, assimilation, but by all of us. From now on, we will continue this issue with the same methods, without dialogue, without peace talks. So, as the People's Democratic Party -- as we say at every opportunity -- we want to say once again that the mechanism to turn in front of you is the peace process, that it is the table. He was the first person to see the impact process. In the talks held at İmralı, our political delegation was told that if the solution process was introduced, impact mechanics, dynamics would come into play. He said that the dynamics were still not over. Therefore, we must all approach the matter of isolation in a serious and unenthusiastic manner. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm completing.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0135par0223	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0134par0224	The country's future, the solution to peace and social peace, is that the main actor, Ocalan (Ecalan), is to be kept in isolation there, to be tortured, because the isolation has been scrutinized by international decisions. There are similar decisions in Turkey's internal law on this issue. So, what we're saying to government officials and particularly the ruling party is that, really, this attitude over Imran Island, this isolation, it's always been a lot harder to repay, so let's not let that happen. I say in this country, let's give up the attitudes to deepen this unrest, to keep the peace, to increase the blood, and let's end the isolation as soon as possible, and I say it's imperative that a delegation, lawyers, or family go there, thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0135par0227	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the third speaker on Article 3 is Mr. Haydar Akar. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, please.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0136par0231	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. Yes, we're discussing international contracts. Of course, when we talk about these contracts, we're talking more about foreign policy and usually about problems with people's own trade groups or their own town, and we're actually talking about it in Congress, I'll tell you that. Yesterday, I gave a parliamentary research motion on the case of the Absalomite, and in five minutes, I tried to tell them about Alexei. We're getting this opportunity here with international contracts, at least, to talk about our own city. I'm not going in there right now. Of course, international contracts are very important, actually, when you look at them. Why does it matter? With the new Constitution you brought in, the Constitution referendum will eliminate this Parliament's functionality and only international contracts will be discussed in parliament, and beyond that, do not expect to see much law in parliament. So from now on, prepare well for international contracts, prepare well, we'll only get the opportunity here, in this House, where nothing else will be discussed. Foreign policy is not based on the ideological structures of governments running the country, according to their ideological views, according to the factions of governments running the country, according to the belief groups of governments running the country, it is not based on the opinions of those who run the country. Foreign policy is, in fact, what we call a win-win situation, where governments have to look at each other in terms of what benefits their own state will bring to one another. That kind of foreign policy doesn't happen in terms of what we're talking about today. And when you say, "a...ax," you're not going to make this offer to Israel when you say, "You're not going to make an offer with Cyprus to market the natural gas and oil that Israel has produced together." Or you shall not speak to Israel, nor to the Blue Marmara. I sent those who went to the Blue Marmara. You said, "Who did you go to? You won't call it foreign policy." Again, you will not measure the caliber of other states' government men in foreign policy. It may be low to you, it may be low profile -- you're used to low profile -- but in foreign policy, if you try to measure the caliber, it'll measure your caliber. One day, what we're living today, now we're measuring each other's calibers. There is no such thing as foreign policy, you Trump! There is no Putin in foreign policy. Look, remember, what happened when the Russian plane went down, guys? In the middle of the night, the Prime Minister, who was suspended by that coup, was singing victory songs, singing heroic songs on television, and at that time, they were in a race with the President. You dropped the plane, I crashed the plane. We got to the point where we came from, where the unknown crashed the plane. For him there is no foreign policy, O Putin! Foreign policy does not provide material for domestic policy. If you bring someone to sing on stage, if you send them to someone's feet, they'll start walking with the face they took from you, and then you'll say, "He tricked me." Well, we're looking at you now, Putin tricked you, Barzani tricked you, Iraqi Prime Minister tricked you, everyone fooled you, and we're the only ones who can't fool you, I don't understand the wisdom, everyone's fooling you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Foreign policy is not based on zigzag, but on national policy and trust. So, when political parties are in power, if they're a little more conservative, if they're a little conservative, there's no turning back to the Arabian Peninsula or the Turkish Republic if they're nationalists. It becomes a standard in foreign policy, it becomes a criteria, and foreign policy is co-operated, compromised with all political parties. And when we do, believe me, our foreign policy will slowly return to its orbit, and Turkey will regain its dignity. Now, let's put foreign policy aside here, and I'd like to continue with an example of my city. Osmangazi Bridge; I call it the Mad Dumrul Bridge, the Osmangazi Bridge.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0137par0240	It's a great bridge.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0136par0241	My teacher's here, and he's a delivery man, so he starts talking to me right away.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0137par0242	But it's great.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0136par0243	This is the Ottomangazi Bridge, the building-business-visit-harm bridge, the Osmangazi Bridge. I have a full year's worth of data, friends, a full year's worth of data. The minister made a statement the other day, and he said: "The crossings have increased on the Osmangazi Bridge." He's telling the truth, the crossings have increased; they're going at 10 to 14,000 averages per day; but we see that in recent months it's gone up to 29,000, and we see that it's approaching 30,000 numbers, so it's true. Let's assume it's 40 grand.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0137par0244	Congressman, I need you to support me as the deputy of the family, encourage me to cross the bridge.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0136par0245	Let's say that the Ottomangazi Bridge has passed 40,000. What's it gonna be, fellas? Won't the government hurt or won't the government pay? How much did you declare the price of the Osmangazi Bridge at the beginning of the year? $35 plus VAT, 133 lira. The citizen pays $65, and the rest of us who don't pass pay 68 lira for the last one, right? We're paying 133 lira for the car that doesn't pass. Assuming 40,000 cars pass by today, each of us will pay 68 lira for passing vehicles, folks, we'll pay 68 lira. The total damage to Eurasia Tunnel (Eurasia Tunnel) and to Yavuz Sultan Selim (Yavuz Sultan) will be $2 billion and $300 million for this year. Which confirms me, proves, in his speech in the Plan and Budget, the Minister of Finance...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0137par0246	Next year will be very different, the numbers will change.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0136par0247	Please, don't ruin my... I'll continue. The minister has confessed that $3 billion,600 million will only write damages, so they're earmarked for the budget. Who's paying for this? The citizen pays. Who's paying? It pays if it doesn't pass. Here are the documents, here are the numbers.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0138par0249	The Minister of Transport explained that you didn't listen.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0136par0250	Let me tell you something else. They couldn't get out of it anymore. Honorary Adıl Eylül, our Istanbul MP asked the numbers with a question motion. I'm asking every month, friends, for your information, periodically, I'm asking the Ministry of Transport, I'm asking BIMER, I'm asking the numbers, I'm asking the last number of vehicles. And my Honorary friend, he asked. In the last four months, we've had two separate responses, 300,000 differences in the number they gave us on the passing vehicles. If you multiply it by $300,000, $35 plus VAT, you can easily find the number. That's why I call it Crazy Dumrul Bridge.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0139par0251	They have different units.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0136par0252	There are 70 million passenger capacity today, along with the addition of artificial-business projects, city hospitals, and third airports. 90 million guaranteed, and when they do, believe me, you're gonna have to raise taxes in this House every day, every day, no exception, every bag you bring in, you're gonna have to raise taxes on the law. We have a $5 billion deficit next year, folks, the government's gonna pay for it. Who's gonna pay? The citizen will pay. I'll give you another very interesting example. Look, Zafer Airport... we've got a Kütahya MP, we've got a Butler MP. Aren't our Afyonkarahisar MPs here? Can you tell me the population of the three counties in total right now? Victory Airport... can you tell us the population of the 3 counties? A million in total, about $1,200,000. This airport is guaranteed 850,000 passengers per year, exactly at Zafer Airport. Do you know how many people are flying from that airport? Eighty thousand people are flying.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0140par0254	Are you against the airport?
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0136par0255	We're not against it. And you didn't build airports. Look, there are 43 airports -- I'll tell you that -- 32 of them were built before you guys, just so you know. We built the airports. Don't brag about it, okay?
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0141par0256	No, 26.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0136par0257	We're going to pay 5m euros for twenty-six years, twenty-six years, five million euros for this company.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0142par0258	You're miscalculation.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0136par0259	God bless us, friends of these do-and-do groups.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0143par0260	Last year's accident cost $39 billion.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0136par0261	So I just want to say, for God's sake, shake it up, shake it up. Take a look, look at what you've done. Don't applaud everything, I mean it... of course we need the Ottomangazi Bridge, but he can't use the Bigadeli.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0143par0262	39 billion accident costs.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0144par0263	He's using... he's using...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0136par0264	You know why he can't use it? Ms. Tülay, when you pass through the Sultan of Yavuz, when you pass through the Bridge of Martyrs on July 15, you pass 25 days a month, perhaps 300-400 lira in total. In order to pass through the Ottomangazi Bridge, he has to pay out of his $3,200 to go to work, and the state will pay in his name.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0144par0265	Go around the bay?
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0136par0266	There's no such example anywhere in the world, friends, there's no such example as the Osmangazi Bridge anywhere in the world.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0145par0267	Last year's accident costs $39 billion, a year.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0136par0268	He's the only city in his town that can't use a bridge. The only city that can't use it. My respects, my love to all of you.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0146par0271	Thank you, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0147par0272	It cost $39 billion in accidents in 2016.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0136par0273	Teacher, we'll discuss everything with you, you're an expert.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0147par0274	Why don't you show us the real numbers... and we'll go on TV and discuss it?
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0136par0275	I have the numbers... for God's sake, stop being so blind. You screwed up... you screwed up...
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0148par0276	Mr. Akar, let's not discuss this with each other.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0147par0277	Why don't we go on TV and discuss it together?
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0136par0278	Let's go out, let's go out together. You claimed the roads were free, too. Now I'll tell you their numbers.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0147par0279	Okay, let's go out together.
tbmm-2017-10-26sit05spe0149par0280	There is no question-answer on Article 3. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, I submit to your votes that all votes of the following international agreements should be carried out by separate electronic voting devices: those who agree... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, I'm giving you three minutes to vote on this deal. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of the open vote of Bill 367: The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin talks with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approval of Agreement between Forestry and Water Areas in the Government of the Republic of Tunisia in accordance with the 12th place. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 368 rows. The speaker on the whole bill? No. There's no question-answering process. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. REPUBLICATION OF TURKEY COMMUNITY REPLICATION CONTINUES THE CONTROL OF THE CONTINUATION OF STRIPTIONS AND ACTIVITY OF ACTIVITY IN WATER The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey between the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia, which was signed in Tunisia on June 6, 2013, and the Treaty of Co-operation between Forestry and Water Areas. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The clear vote of Bill 368 is: ▪ Number of votes used: 216 [[X]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin the talks of the 13th-place Turkish Republic Government and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of Covenant Opposition between the Government of the Republic of Greece and the Government of Greece. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 369 rows. The speaker on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. CONSIDERING THE CONTROL OF THE REPUBLICITY OF TURKEY COMMUNITY AND REPLICATION OF REPUBLICITY IN REPLICATION OF COMMUNITY The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and The Covenant in the Forestry Area between the Republic of Greece, which was signed in Athens on May 14, 2010. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of the open vote of Bill 369: The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Ministry of Environment and Forestry of the Republic of Turkey and with the Foreign Affairs Report of the Dair Law, which is ranked 14th place, and the Ministry of Forestry and Forestry between the Iraqi Republic. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 370 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. RICO REPUBLICATION REPLICATION AND THE ORMAN'S ACTIVITY REPLICATION REPLICATION REPLICATION OF THE REPLICATION OF THE REFECTION OF THE ORMITATION OF THE REPLICATION OF THE REPLICATION OF THE REPLICATION OF THE REPLICATION OF THE REPLICATION OF THE REPLICATION OF THE REPLICATION OF THE REPLICATION OF THE REPLICATION MADDE 1- (1) On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Turkey signed on October 15, 2009 in Baghdad, the Ministry of Environment and Forestry of the Republic of Turkey and the ratification of Covenant Zapt. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[It was put to a vote by electronic device]] As a result of the open vote of Bill 370 rows: ▪ Number of votes used: 216 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked in the 15th place of the European Convention on the Protection of Animals Feeding for Farming. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 371 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. As for the law on the fact that the education of the State of the Republic, which has been established by the pairs of agencies, has been found to protect the lives of the living. MADDE 1- (1) on behalf of the Republic of Turkey on June 6, 2007, the declaration of the European Convention for the Protection of Animals Feeded for Farming was approved. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The bill is all open vote. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of the open vote of Bill 371: ▪ Number of votes used: 218 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. In the 16th place, we will begin negotiations with the Turkish Republic's Government and with the Foreign Affairs Commission Report, where it is appropriate to ratify the Co-operation Agreement between Romania's Government and its Forestry Area. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 373 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE CONTACT OF CONTROLITY OF TURKEY COMMUNITY AND ROMANIA COMMUNITY CONTINUES THE CONTINUATION OF THE CONTROLATION OF ORIANITY Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Romanian Government was approved on 1 April 2015. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of the open vote of Bill 373: The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin talks with Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 17th place, confirming the Tokyo Convention on Crimes and Some Other Actions. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 374 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE CONSIDERING OF PROTOCOLMAL CONTROLATION OF THE CRIMINALS IN THE AIRS AND SOME OTHER EMPLOYMENTS The approval of the Tokyo Convention on Crimes and Other Actions, signed on 1- (1) 19/8/2014, was appropriate. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of the open vote of Bill 374: ▪ Number of votes used : 217 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Environmental Commission and Foreign Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 18th place of 18th place, in accordance with the Charter drafting of the Perpetual Agreement on Obstruction, Mobilisation and Disposal of Unregistered Fisheries. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 375 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. PRODUCTION OF EXCITING, DISCOVERING, DISCOVERED DISCOVERY, DESTRUCTION, AND PRODUCTION OF THE CONTINUATION OF THE CONTRACTION OF THE CONTINUATION OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE CONTROLATION ADADDE 1- (1) was adopted on November 22, 2009 in Rome. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of the open vote of Bill 375: [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Environmental Commission and Foreign Commission Reports, which ranked in the 19th place, in 2001, in accordance with the International Charter on the Control of Harmful Organic Obstruction Systems in Ships. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 376 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. 2001, we have to agree to agree to comply with the command of the critical organic establishment of the ship. MADDE 1- (1) 2001, it was appropriate for us to participate in the International Convention on Control of Harmful Organic Obstruction Systems on Ships with a statement. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of the open vote of Bill 376 rows: ▪ Number of votes used: 213 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 379 and the Foreign Affairs Commission Report, which ranked in the 20th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 382 and Foreign Affairs Commission Report, ranked 21st. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions were not to be found after this, the decision was made to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order to discuss them on Tuesday (October 31st, 2017). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
