tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the Central Management Budget Law bill of 2018 and the Central Management Act of 2016. Under the schedule, we'll be doing the seventh round of interviews today. The seventh round includes the Ministry of the European Union and the Turkish Accreditation Agency, the Ministry of National Education, the Chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement, the budget and precise accounts for universities. 1) Ministry of the European Union's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2016 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) Ministry of National Education Central Management Budget for 2018 2) National Ministry of Education 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Death, Choosing and Responsibility Office 1) The Central Management Budget for 2018 is the chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) Metric, Selection and Placement Centre Chairman 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The Board of Higher Education 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2016 Central Management Final Account a) Ankara University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Ankara University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 2) ORTA EAST TECHNIC UNIVERSITY A) Central Management Budget for 2018 Middle East Technical University B) Middle East Technical University Central Management Account for 2016 a) Hacettepe University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Hacettepe University 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Gazi University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Gazi University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account a) İstanbul University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) İstanbul University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account a) İstanbul Technical University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) İstanbul Technical University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account a) Boğaziçi University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Boğaziçi University 2016 Central Management Final Account A) The Central Management Budget of the University of Marmara 2018 B) Marmara University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account A) Star Technical University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Yıldız Technical University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 10) THE UNIVERSE OF MINAR SINAN BEAUTIFUL ARTS A) Architect Sinan University of Fine Arts 2018 Central Management Budget B) Architect Sinan Fine Arts University 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Ege University's Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Ege University 2016 Central Management Terminate Account A) 9 September University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Nine Eylül University Central Administration Terminate Account for 2016 A) Thracian University's Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Thrace University 2016 Central Management Terminate Account A) Uludağ University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Uludağ University Central Management Account for 2016 a) Anadolu University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Anadolu University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account A) Selçuk University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Selçuk University 2016 Central Management Final Account a) Mediterranean University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Mediterranean University 2016 Central Management Terms a) Ercijas University's Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Ercijas University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account A) Republican University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Cumhuriyet University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account A) Çukurova University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Çukurova University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account a) Central Management Budget, May 19, University of May 2018 B) Nineteen May University Central Management Final Account for 2016 A) Black Sea Technical University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Black Sea Technical University 2016 Central Management Final Account a) Ataturk University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Ataturk University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account A) Inönu University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Inönü University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account a) Firat University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Fırat University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account a) Dicle University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Dicle University 2016 Central Management Terms 27) VAN YUNY YEAR UNIVERSITY a) Van Centennial University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Centennial University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account a) Gaziantep University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Gaziantep University 2016 Central Management Final Account 29) INSTITUTE INSTITUTION OF INDISTINCT TECHNOLOGY a) Izmir Institute of Higher Technology Central Management Budget for 2018 B) İzmir Institute of Higher Technology 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Gebze Technical University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Gebze Technical University 2016 Central Management Final Account a) Harran University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Harran University 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Suleiman Demirel University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Sulejman Demirel University Central Management Account for 2016 A) Adnan Menderes University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Adnan Menderes University 2016 Central Management Terms a) Bulent Ecevit University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Bült Ecevit University 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Mersin University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Mersin University 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Pamukkale University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Pamukkale University 2016 Central Management Terms A) Balıkesir University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Balıkesir University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account A) The Central Management Budget of the 2018 University of Marseilles B) Kopeeli University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account A) Sakarya University's Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Sakarya University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 40) MANISA CELAL UNIVERSE A) Manisa Celal Bayar University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Manisa Celal Bayar University 2016 Central Management Terms 41) ABANT UNIVERSE A) Abant Izzet Baysal University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Abant Izzet Baysal University 2016 Central Management Final Account a) Mustafa Kemal University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Mustafa Kemal University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account A) Afyon Kocatepe University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Afyon Kocatepe University 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Kafkas University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Kafkas University 2016 Central Management Terms 45) CHUNKKALE ONSELVES MART UNIVERSE A) Çanakkale University of March 18, 2018 Central Management Budget B) Çanakkale 18 Mart University 2016 Central Management Final Account 46) THE UNIVERSE OF THE VICTIM A) Niğde Ömer Halisdemir University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Ömer Halisdemir University 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Dumlupınar University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Dumlupınar University 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Gaziosmanpaşa University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Gaziosmanpaşa University 2016 Central Management Terms 49) MUGLA STUDENT STUDENT UNIVERSE A) Mugla Sıtkı Koçman University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Muğla Sıtkı Koçman University 2016 Central Management Final Account 50) KARAMANMANMAN SURVIVING UNIVERSE A) Heromarash Milker Imam University Central Management Budget of 2018 B) Kahramanmarash Milkyman İmam University 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Kırıkkale University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Kırıkkale University Central Management Account for 2016 52) EXECUTIVE OSMAN UNIVERSITY A) Eskişehir Osman Gazi University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Eskişehir Osman Gazi University 2016 Central Management Final Account a) Galatasaray University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Galatasaray University Central Management Terms 2016 A) Ahi Evran University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Ahi Evran University 2016 Central Management Terms a) Kastamonon University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Kastamono University 2016 Central Management Termination Account A) Düzce University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Düzce University 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 57) MEHMET AKIF ERSOY UNIVERSITY A) Mehmet Akif Ersoy University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Mehmet Akif Ersoy University 2016 Central Management Terms A) Uğur University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Uğur University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 59) RECEP TERRORAL UNIVERSE A) Recep Tayyip Erdogan University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Recep Tayyip Erdogan University Central Administration Final Account for 2016 A) Namik Kemal University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Namik Kemal University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account A) Erzincan University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Erzincan University Central Management Final Account for 2016 a) Aksaray University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Aksaray University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account a) Giresun University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Giresun University 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Hitit University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Hitit University 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Bozok University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Bozok University 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Adıyaman University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Adıyaman University Central Management Account for 2016 A) Military University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Army University 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Amasya University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Amasya University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account A) Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey University 2016 Central Administration Terminator Account 70) ALONG IBRAHAM UNIVERSE A) Ağrı İbrahim Chechn University 2018 Central Management Budget B) Ağrı İbrahim Çeçn University 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Sinop University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Sinop University 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Siirt University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Siirt University 2016 Central Management Final Account 73) THE UNIVERSE OF VICTIMAL BEKTAS VICTIMS A) Nevşehir Haci Bektaş Veli University Central Management Budget 2018 B) Nevşehir Hacı Bektas Veli University 2016 Central Executive Term A) Karabuk University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Karabük University 2016 Central Management Final Account 75) CHURCH UNIVERSITY OF DECEMBER 7 A) Church University of December 7th 2018 Central Management Budget B) Kilis University of December 7th 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Çanırı Karatekin University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Çanırı Karateken University 2016 Central Management Terms A) Artvin Çoruh University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Artvin Çoruh University 2016 Central Management Terms 78) THE UNIVERSITY OF BILECTIC HEITH A) Bilecik Sheikh Edebali University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Bilecik Sheikh Edebali University 2016 Central Management Terms a) Bitlis Eren University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Bitlis Eren University 2016 Central Management Terms A) Cırklareli University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Kırklareli University 2016 Central Management Final Account 81) OSMANI SCARED ATTA UNIVERSE A) Osmaniye Korkuş University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Osmaniye Korkuş Ata University 2016 Central Management Final Account a) Bingol University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Bingöl University 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Muş Alparslan University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Mus Alparslan University Central Management Terminate in 2016 a) Mardin Artuklu University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Mardin Artuklu University 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Batman University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Batman University 2016 Central Management Final Account a) Ardahan University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Ardahan University 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Bartın University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Bartın University 2016 Central Management Terms A) Bayburt University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Bayburt University 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Silver Hall University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Silverhane University 2016 Central Management Terms a) Hakkari University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Hakkari University Central Administration Terminate Account for 2016 A) Iğdır University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Iğdır University 2016 Central Management Final Account a) Şırnak University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Şırnak University 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Munzur University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Munzur University 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Yalova University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Yalova University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account a) Turkish German University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Turkey's German University's Central Executive Account for 2016 96) ANKARA STAR BEYAZIT UNIVERSITY A) Ankara Yıldırım Akıt University 2018 Central Management Budget B) Ankara Yıldırım Çakıt University 2016 Central Management Final Account a) Bursa Technical University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Bursa Technical University 2016 Central Management Final Account a) İstanbul Civility University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) İstanbul Civiliyet University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 99) UNIVERSITY OF EMPLOYMENT a) İzmir Kâtip Çelebi University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) İzmir Kâtip Çelebi University 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Necmettin Erbakan University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Necmettin Erbakan University Central Management Termination Account for 2016 A) Abdullah Gül University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Abdullah Gül University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account A) Central Management Budget for 2018 at Erzurum Technical University B) Erzurum Technical University 2016 Central Management Final Account 103) THE UNIVERSE OF ADANA AND TEKNOLOGY A) Adana University of Science and Technology 2018 Central Management Budget B) Adana University of Science and Technology 2016 Central Management Final Account 104) THE UNIVERSE OF ANKARA SOCIAL MEMORY a) Ankara University of Social Sciences Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Ankara University of Social Sciences 2016 Central Management Final Account A) Health Sciences University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Health Sciences University Central Management Account for 2016 106) BANDIRM ON SEPTEMBER UNIVERSITY A) Bandirma Seventeen Eylül University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Bandirma Seventeen Eylül University Central Management Terms A) Alexanderun Technical University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) İskenderun Technical University Central Management Account for 2016 108) ALANYA ALAADDIN KEYCUT UNIVERSITY A) Alanya Aladdin Keycubat University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Alanya Aladdin Keykubat University 2016 Central Management Terms a) İzmir Bakırçay University Central Management Budget for 2018 a) İzmir University of Democracy Central Management Budget for 2018 Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Members of parliament, as it is known, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must enter the system. Now, in the seventh round, I'm reading the names of the members who have been spoken for by their groups and individuals: On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Oguz Kaan Salcı, İstanbul MP Sibel Özdemir, Antalya MP Mustafa Akadın, İstanbul MP Süleyman Senser Ayata, Bursa MP Ceyhun İrgil, Aydın MP Metin Lütfi Baydar, Eskişehir MP Gaye Beseler. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İzmir MP Ertuğul Kürkcu, Diyarbakır MP Feleknas Uca, Siirt MP Kadir Yıldırım, İğdir MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman, Van MP Lezgin Botan, Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Müğla MP Hasan Özyer, Konya MP Leyla Şahin Usta, İzmir MP Kerem Ali Kerem Ali Constant, Elazığ MP, Balıkesir MP Ali Aydınlıoğlu, Sinop MP Nazım Mavish, Seğeli MP Mehmet Akif Yılmaz, Karabük MP Burhanettin Uysal, Benköl MP Enver Fehmioğlu, Siirt MP Yasin Aktay, Isin Aktay, Konya MP Halil Etmaş, Isparta MP Supreme. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, İstanbul MP Arzut Erdem, Ankara MP Zühal Topcu, Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın. On behalf of his people, Istanbul MP Markar Eseyan is the speaker of our Istanbul MP Selina Doğan. Congressmans, the first word on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group belongs to our Istanbul MP, Mr. Oğuz Kaan Salici. Mr. Salici, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0002par0367	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the European Ministry's budget. I salute you all. Later this week, the former Austrian Foreign Minister, Sebastian Kurz, who is currently in charge of forming the government, made a statement to the government programme. There is a statement in that statement about Turkey's break with the European Union and Austria's search for new allies. Both our Foreign Minister, Mr. Sergeant, and our Minister of the European Union, Mr. Çelik, reacted consistently to this statement. For him, I thank them for their consistent response. The context of the reaction is that they're both saying that there's activity between us and the European Union, which they remind us of, and also remind us of the values of the European Union, this self-absorbed Austrian politician. But, of course, the interesting thing is that we remind you of the values of the European Union, or we remind you of the currents between us, but how much we fit in, how well we fit in with the values of the European Union, we need to take a look at the issue from here. Now, Mr. Secretary says in his statement that these approaches are an effort to make EU values a formality and a part of the European inner power game. I sign my name under it, and it's absolutely true. But on the other hand, we look back, the values of the European Union are already expressed on the Ministry of the European Union's website, it says: "The Union is based on the principles of respect for human rights, including the rights of people of the minority, including the rights of the Union, human honor, democracy, equality, the rule of law -- all of the values we have been looking for in Turkey recently." These values are common to member states in a society dominated by pluralism, discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity, equality of women and men. We are looking at Akits. One of the most important statements is probably the party program of the Justice and Development Party, which has ruled Turkey since 2002, right? What did the Justice and Development Party say about the European Union in the party programme? In its relations with the European Union, Turkey will quickly ensure that its commitments and the conditions the Union wants the other candidate countries to meet for membership -- history 2002 -- will try to prevent the agenda from being engaged in artificial problems. This is also a true statement. The problem, my friends, is that there's no problem with statements, so the theory is poison, but there's no practice. Thus, a process of expressing an approach to this has been taking place in Turkey's relations with the European Union for some time. The Minister probably has a lot of free time lately because there is no progress in the relations between Turkey and the European Union. There's no progress, there's nothing new. For example, at the time of the Minister, the European Parliament adopted a decision recommending the suspension of accession talks, making its decision by 477 votes against 64. The content of the report or the content of reports published by the European Council on Turkey's recent view of human rights is a complete disaster. Dear friends, when we look at our relations with the European Union, one of the most important and recent documents is the 65th Government Programme. You know, we're talking about documents, we're talking about documents, and there's a good line in the 65th Government Program about the European Union. Do you know how many words total? Fifty words, friends. It says: "The European Union is a strategic goal for us. " The sentence is true, there is no action, there is nothing being done about it. Fifty words total. Well, do you know how many words there are about the African continent in the foreign policy section of the 65th Government Programme, titled "Strong Turkey"? There's 90 words, guys. The government has established the Ministry of the European Union, no action. He wrote it on the program, but even when he wrote it, he wrote it in terms of how far away our relations with the European Union are or how far away his intentions are. I'll tell you something else. Now we're talking about the Minister's budget, right? Dear friends, in 2016 the European Ministry's budget was 319m liras, and in December 2016 100m euros. 313m euros in 2017, 85m euros in December. This budget is $347m in the budget of 2018, 76m euros in December. Now, friends, if you want to improve the relationship, if you're making an effort to do so, you're not going to cut the budget steadily, you're going to increase the budget.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0003par0373	They gave up the European Union.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0002par0374	The budget, which was 100m euros in 2016, is now 76m euros. Dear friends, I ask you: in what ministry's budget in the last two years, there has been a 25 percent reduction in the euro base, which ministry? Mr. Secretary, this shows that your work, your effort, your effort, is not actually useful or that there is no serious will to establish a relationship between your government and the European Union, to make Turkey a full member of the European Union. Now, when we talk about the European Union, for example, Mr. Sergeant says that behind closed doors Germany and France tell us that this European Union came out of a balance of power between Germany and France. We don't want Turkey here. If Turkey comes, the balance of power will be shaken. Other government politicians say: "They are jealous of us, because they are jealous of us, they call the great and powerful Turkey -- you know -- they don't want to take Turkey into the European Union because they're jealous of us. I'll give you some figures from Turkey, which the Europeans are jealous of. In Europe, Turkey is the third friend in mortal business accidents, third in the world. The third in 34 OECD countries, and the first in Europe, in the distribution of income. In the Corruption Perception Index, it ranked 75% among the 168 countries. Global Peace Index is ranked 146th among 162 countries. The other day, we were meeting with some friends from the Norwegian Embassy, and I asked them, "Do you remember the last time an incident occurred in your country when the police interfered in a political demonstration and was the result of death?," I asked them, "They had trouble remembering, they didn't exist in the last 50 years."
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0004par0377	Their neighbor is not Syria, but where are you comparing it to?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0002par0378	Friends, every day there are people in this country who have lost their lives in political demonstrations or in the pursuit of social rights. Is Turkey this Turkey they don't want to join the European Union because they're jealous? Let me tell you something else, guys. Let me tell you something else. The European Union is our choice. Europeans may not want us, Turkey's entry into the European Union may not benefit some countries, but if we want this to be stable and right, how can the European Union in 2002, 2005, or if the European Union in 2005 is not enough for us or if the European Union stands up for us, we can make them the Ankara criteria, if necessary, we can make the Maastricht Criters the Istanbul criteria, but we can continue the struggle for Turkey's reform? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...today, unfortunately, they're not using any kind of testimony on these matters. Turkey is literally facing the European Union. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0005par0384	Thank you, Mr. Salici. Now it's time for our Istanbul MP, Mr. Gibraltar. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Özdemir, your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0006par0389	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the Turkish Accreditation Agency (TÜRKEK) budgetary budgetary budget for the European Union as part of the 2018 Central Management Budget Bill talks. I salute the General Assembly and our fellow citizens who follow us. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to begin by bringing to the attention of the Court's report on the Turkish Accreditation Agency, which has been established to conduct Akreditation activities, which are considered an essential element of international trade in the process of our country's full membership in the European Union. The audit report finds that there are four basic problems related to the institution's activities, which do not match their own decorums. These are determined that the main financial tables are not included, that the action report is not explained, that the performance information system is not evaluated, and that the mechanism is not created to monitor budget implementation, and that there are no details of the examples used. I'd like to ask the Minister: How does an institution that performs the act of accretion in international standards provide these gaps? There was no response to the problems brought up by Mr. Tamayligil, a valued member of the Plan and Budget Commission, as well as in the Commission. Turkey is an important institution that governs the act of Akreditation in terms of our membership legislation and compliance with the European Union. In this context, I would like to share with you my views at the point of our accession process to the European Union as we discuss the budget of this institution. From the day the foundation was laid, the European Union's accession process for our country, which has always turned its face to the West, is our most important goal of modernisation and democratisation after our republic's declaration. We need to look at Turkey-European relations from a historical, structural and state policy perspective, but the government, which has been conducting membership talks alone for 16 years, has failed to use this process for its own personal interests. For the first time in this period of power, especially since 2007, we are witnessing a process that has been removed from our state policy, personal, short-term, and facing domestic policy. The accession talks are now virtually frozen due to mutual inconsistencies, ambiguities and lack of trust, and since the beginning of negotiations during your government in 2005, only 16 chapters have been opened and only one chapter has been temporarily closed. And again, Mr. Secretary, I have also expressed in the commission process that we are the only country in the history of the European Union that has been running for a very long time. But more importantly, valuable lawmakers have moved away from the Copenhagen Political Criteria, which includes our conditions for membership in the European Union, the rule of law, judicial independence, the principles of separation of forces, and the process of democratisation. Mr. Secretary, you have failed to implement the upgrade of the Customs Union Agreement, which is the basis of our economic integration into the European Union countries, you have failed to take steps in our trade relations that will make the maximum of our national interests, and you have failed to keep any commitments to 80 million citizens regarding visa exemption. Dear lawmakers have noted that we have suffered a setback in progress reports published in the past five years, and as Mr. Salici had said on behalf of our group before me, the European Parliament has first accepted a report suggesting that our accession talks be suspended conditionally. In addition, pre-accession financial aid, which is extremely important for our membership, has been cut by 105m euros. However, as the reason for these decisions, Mr. Prime Minister argued last week that there was a lack of vision and a strategic perspective on the European Union as he presented the budget opening presentation here. Mr. Secretary, but when we look at the point in our foreign policy and EU relations, it's clear that your government has a lack of vision and a lack of strategic perspective. (Applause from CHP rows) Here, especially if we put aside your anti-European statements that have been raised during election times, Mr. Prime Minister says that the European Union is an important tool for the continuation of a sustainable and stable growth environment in Turkey, while your President and President Erdoğan, we do not need membership in our European Union. When he says, "Turkey needs the European Union," Mr. Mehmet Simsek. So, as chief negotiator and Minister of the European Union, what do you think? Does Turkey need the European Union or not? Or do you view our relations with the European Union as a need level or a strategic win-win relationship with international relations? Mr. Secretary, in the Commission talks, you argued that the European Union faces three basic challenges, and one of them was the rise of extreme right and populism in Europe. However, Mr. Secretary, before the referendum, we all remember the words of your government, especially Mr. President, for the European Union, in the polls. We've all seen the words that fuel the hostility of Europe and the West. Don't you do a similar approach to multinationalist, populist politics, which you criticize and are on the rise in Europe? Did you not make our country lonely in the world because of your government's lack of perspective on foreign policy and the European Union? Didn't you polarize society as domestic, national, unofficial? And polarization gets deeper and deeper every day. Our democracy is under the hybrid class regime. None of you are talking about advanced democracy today. In the index of accountability and transparency, our country is rapidly falling backwards. In freedom of thought and expression, academic freedoms, independent media indexes, we fall back day by day. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as a result, the state of democracy, justice, law... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do you mind if I finish?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0007par0405	I'll give you one more minute to finish your vows. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0006par0407	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, as a result, we must never give up on our country's anchorage for the European Union, which lacks democracy, justice, the state of law, freedoms, and is becoming increasingly disproportionate in the international arena. We, the Republican People's Party, view our membership in the European Union as a national, strategic state policy that prioritizes our demographic, economic and regional interests, not for the political interests of a political party and one person, but for the benefit and welfare of our country and 80 million citizens. With these thoughts, the Ministry of the European Union and the budget of the National Ministry of Education, which is a very important budget to talk about today, I wish that our government's central management budget of 2018 would be good for our country and all our citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0008par0412	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. Now it's up to our Antalya MP, Mr. Mustafa Akadun. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Aka morning, your time is nine minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0009par0417	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group as part of the budget talks of our Ministry of National Education for 2018 years. I salute and cherish our fellow citizens and our great coven, who watch over us on television. First of all, I'd like to thank Mr. Minister of National Education for the political style and courtesy of communication. I wish this would be an example to some of our other ministers, who have political weakness. Of course, our job as opposition is to express shortcomings and wrongs related to education. Dear lawmakers, as we all know, education is the most important process that determines the future of a country, and it's a national concept, as you can see by the name of our Ministry, so it's not just about power, it's not about education. I mean, every platform needs to be discussed, but we all know that's not the case. In the last 15 years, we've seen six changing ministers and numerous changes in national education policies, the basic principles of the republic ignored, the Education Union Act was destroyed, the 42th article of the Constitution was presumed to be destroyed, and we've witnessed a lot of non-scientific, secular practices. Today, as the most important issues of national education on our country's agenda: 1) The inferiority of education, 2) The entrance exams to secondary school and higher education, 3) The curriculum changes, 4) The destruction of secular and scientific aspects of education, 5) Pressures on Teachers, Sort of. None of these problems can be solved by me, it can't be solved by his mental state, it can't be solved by Mr. Reis. The National Education Ministry budget of 2018 is 135 billion Turkish liras, its share in the general budget is 17.7 per cent; it is the lowest in the last five years. The GDP is 3.90 per cent; the lowest percentage of the last three years. More importantly, national education investments fell from 30 per cent in 1998 to 8.3 per cent today. With these figures, it is not possible to remove unified classes in the near future, and as predicted in the middle-term plan, the transition from bilateral education to single education in 2019 is just a dream, valued MPs. Tens of thousands of teachers who have been relieved of their duties, hundreds of academics who have been dismissed by the decree of the law, ignoring freedom of opinion, are autocratic and unfair practices that undermine the reputation of the Republic of Turkey. The FATHIH Project, which was planned to end in 2014, has hit the wall today, and will now end in 2018. Education policies are completely unscientific, the theory of evolution is out of syllabus, our children are driven by superstitions. Dear friends, with these policies, there's no way we can save our country, which is 29 percent in school and 29 percent in youth under the age of 29 to 30 in OECD countries. The next worst number in OECD is 14%. If you create 30 per cent trained unemployment, if you do not encourage vocational and technical education, it is unlikely to improve the quality of education, or to capture the industrial revolution. The world is discussing artificial intelligence, and we're crying to our children who have surrendered to superstitions in pedophile schools. There's no respect for pedagogic evaluation in education. No one's taking the pedagogs' views on education. Religious foundations and associations -- including Ensar, TÜRGEV, TUGVA, Hayrat, Service -- have taken over training instead of the Ministry of National Education. Look, there are quotes from a book by the Ensar Foundation at a high school in Kayseri, which is in the press today. In the book, if you dress fine, you will be tempted by animals. It is called "Praying to babies. " According to PISA 2003 results, we're down 20 steps in the world, and so is TimSS. Mr. Minister, from time to time, there is also a decline in Finland. He boasts about it, but we all know what Finland's place in the world education system is, no doubt. We're over 700,000 child laborers, dear friends. We have 40,000 contract teachers, 63,000 paid teachers, with no social security and no affordables. 438,000 teachers are waiting for the appointment. In education schools, there are now 650,000 candidates for teachers. So when you think they've graduated, we'll have over 1 million teachers waiting for a job from the government, and according to what I'm getting today, according to the National Education Minister's response to me in the budget talks, we now have 109 thousand teachers short in the Ministry of National Education. Dear friends, there is much more to be said about these matters, but I would like to make an assessment of the FATIH Project in particular. Gene, from what we've heard from our Minister of National Education, I thought the FATIH Project hit a wall. This is the most important leg of Project FATH. You know, it was a project that was expected to end in 2014, and it's now held until 2017, it's not finished, it's postponed to 2018, and we all know it's not going to end in 2018. The number of tablets -- look, we have 17.5 million students -- says 1 million 437K. Our Ministry of Education gave me today's response.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0010par0439	The first ones they distribute are old, not technologically used.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0009par0440	There's no other country in the world that's already using this technology, friends, because the computer we call "tablet" is finally a non-technology system in two or three years. And now, again, in response to our Minister of National Education, we see that 1 million 375,000 tablets have been excluded because our students have graduated. So in the national education system, which currently has 17.5 million students, my dear friends, the number of tablets is around 60,000. Look, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to offer you something, and I suggested it last year in my House talks. Yesterday, the Conqueror Altaylı had a program, a very important, very valuable scientist, Celal Şengör, told of the world's museums of natural history and science. There isn't one in Turkey. It's a museum like this. I've been saying this for years, as a former chancellor, it's said that the money you spent on this project -- 8 to 9 billion Turkish dollars -- you can give Turkey a museum of natural history and science, even with just one in twenty. Look, I don't mean tourists, I just want to make a suggestion to you that by sending our children to these museums, you might actually have contributed a great deal to Turkey's education, education, and science life. Dear friends, I'd like to say a few words about the exam system. You know, in Turkey, we've been facing serious changes to the exam system in entering high schools for years. Our parents, our students, are in a confused, uncertain state. Today, a test system has been lifted. You all know very well that it hasn't been removed. And in Turkish classrooms, called the six-centres, the minimum hourly fee is now 100 lira and 200 lira, private teachers are teaching their rich children. Dear friends, let's face the fact that there are so many demands in Turkey right now that it's impossible to remove the exam system, so the exam system will not be removed because Mr. Reis asked for it. What do you have to do? Let's just, and just -- at some point -- let's take a test on the ability to study mathematics, mental skills, and understand Turkish -- no matter how many hours it takes, no matter how many minutes it takes -- and let's evaluate our students who are successful at this test, both in high school and in college. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] A change in this scope will also eliminate the need for classrooms in Turkey because it is possible for the poor shepherd in the southeast to gain such skills by reading some books. I have such a suggestion. I give you all my love. I wish you all the best in the new budget, dear friends.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0011par0448	Thank you, Mr. Akadun. Now, it belongs to our Istanbul MP, Sulejman Aysanr Ayata. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Ayata, your time is nine minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0012par0453	Thank you. Mr. President, the valuable MPs have increased the number of students, teachers, students, and higher the schooling rates; this is a positive development in education in Turkey. I don't want to bring criticism right away here, but I'll tell you this: not in higher proportions than in similar countries, but in the whole world, there's a trend like this; we've achieved close to those rates -- I'd say close success -- but the two structural problems of education, the basic problem of inequality in education, and the low quality problem of education. In fact, in this conversation, I'm going to argue that especially in the last five years, the quality decline and inequality of education has become more structural, more disorganized and more inextricable. Why is that? First of all, the negative outcome of this is that for our entire country, Turkey is unable to achieve enough success in developing qualified manpower and is very weak in preventing inequality in society through the educational system. Now, I said, why? I will list four reasons: the first reason is inequality from birth. Like what? Kids don't start school under the same conditions, some start behind. Where the child was born, the parent's profession, the sex of the child, is very decisive in education and later working life. Now, what do you have to do to prevent that? Of course, you have to fix the income distribution disorder, but a strong social state prevents it, but the existing aid system in Turkey doesn't satisfy the need in any way, and the children of needy families, the children of the families that I'm talking about, begin their education without luck, and this opportunity continues to affect them for the rest of their lives. According to many calculations in Turkey, one of the two children is at a disadvantage in this sense. Now, these inequalized children have arrived, stood in front of the school gates. So, what does this school system, the education system do? This is our second important question. Now, there's a place where the whole world goes, pre-school education. Why? Because the most important seven are given to the child at this age, in the pre-school age. What's our status? The schooling rate is 50%. Well, there are those who benefit from pre-school education, but who aren't? The kids I call disadvantaged, half the community, they can't take advantage of it. This has certainly and certainly had a huge impact on the introduction of the 4+4 system in the last four years, slowing down and slowing down the schooling rate, my dear friends. Now, this 4+4 system doesn't stay here. Now, the issue of school species is another important source of inequality and inequality. 4+4 drew to the elementary level, the kind of dissolution in schools. What are possible families doing? They send their children to academic schools. There are students, better students, better teachers, safer infrastructure, more social activity, better school climate in academic schools. When we look at schools where disadvantaged children go to, teachers, student activities, physical infrastructure, security is much weaker. So -- bottom line -- absentee, repeat class and dropout are at a much higher rate. Well, if you ask them, what schools are these? There are three main types, and there are disadvantaged children everywhere, but there are three main types. One is, of course, in bilateral teaching, of course, in bilateral teaching schools, vocational schools and imam-members. Three of them, look at all the numbers. This coercion in school species increases inequality in the school system, not in society and not in society alone. The fourth subject, the curriculum, the subject of content. In the 21st century, there are some basic personality traits that need to be given to children. We're looking fast. They're free, curious, curious, questioning, opposing authority, respecting differences, believing in gender equality, tolerant -- we can list many other features. Now, what about us? The values considered superior are passed on to children by teachers, and they are left in the process of memorizing them. I don't go into polymia, it's the spirit of the educational system. Secondly, it's a level of growth in the person's development, the level of thought development. In particular, studies in disadvantaged schools show that many of our students are very weak in critical thinking, distinguishing between important and insignificant, comparing different information, solving problems, drawing conclusions, synthesising information. Because especially in these disadvantaged schools, education is based on passing and memorizing facts and ideas. To see this better, let's look at the concept of basic competences of the European Union in education, the concept of basic skills, which states: literary and artistic expression, foreign language, sound mathematics, basic information formation, ability to solve problems, the ability to use technologies well, the initiative, the ability to turn the idea into action, and most importantly, learn what you know, learning. Because technology and professions are changing rapidly today. They are looking for people who can think critically in new professions, who can solve problems, who have creative and communication skills. You don't want experts in the narrow sense, you want people with transformative skills. Therefore, vocational education -- including Germany -- is being tried to postpone the end of secondary school, not primary school. We're trying to encourage expertise, narrow expertise. Let's look at this from a PISA angle. Scores are falling, we've talked about it. There are six digits in PISA. It's not like we're in the top two digits, but that's the world's most qualified labor force, which means we're barely there. We're weak in middle school, but what's worse? The skills necessary for active participation in life are not given to more or less half of our students, which is a very bad situation. The most disadvantaged in Turkey are bilateral education, vocational schools and imam-members. Now, it's a more dire situation, look, and it's a very sad situation: participation in science, learning pleasure and science activities in Turkey -- my teacher just told me -- our children are at the top of the world, but I'm telling you clearly, political power and this educational system don't allow children to learn science, so clearly and clearly. As a result, Turkey is condemned to unskilled labor force and is becoming a country that offers the world unqualified labor force. Now, we know the importance of technology, of education, but in education, we're in the 100th place among 140 countries according to many measurements. Now, millions of children are at this disadvantage. The basis of this big education problem -- look, I'm saying very briefly again -- is that schools and education curriculum are shaped according to political and ideological purposes, and that's the most important reason. Now, dear friends... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can we add a minute?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0013par0464	I'll give you one more minute to complete your statement, Mr. Ayata. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0012par0466	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've got one or two sentences left. Now, the problem with education is that we can't bring a system of education in accordance with the way the world goes and the demands of society -- the way the world goes -- in harmony with its values, in accordance with what is expected in Turkey. On the contrary, we're trying to row through the currents. I don't want to go into the polemic anymore. Even antidemocratic countries in the world, even non-democratic countries like China, China, and even countries like Russia, are having these problems, and Turkey is having these problems, and let's be sure that this political and ideological insistence has no political benefits because this educational system is taking young people out of political power. Look, as a sociologist, I've got a lot of data telling you that. It doesn't help; look at the vote when you get out of training. That's proof of that. Thank you very much, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0014par0470	Thank you, Mr. Ayata. Now it's up to Mr. Ceyhun Ýrgil. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Irgil, your time is nine minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0015par0475	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are one of the most important features of this period, no matter what you say, no one listens. It's a deaf and illegal time for everyone but yourself. Friends, the Ministry of National Education is a ministry full of problems and victims. It is not expected that this Ministry, where the congregations have taken root, branched out, reached out to our children, will clear itself at the mention of ha. But obviously, this Ministry can't do without a congregation and a cult. Signed protocols, associations that are put into schools under the education of values, and, like the terrorist community on July 15th, a religious chat project in houses, the Ministry has taken on a more responsibility than education. Moreover, the Ministry of National Education, which uses 80 per cent of its budget directly for staff spending, cannot be expected to create an equal opportunity in education, invest in education, provide an accessible education service. We'd expect him to appoint teachers, but the Ministry of National Education isn't doing that either. There are over 100,000 teachers short, according to the Ministry -- various times -- according to the Minister's statement. The government, including the President, promised additional appointment in 2017, but it wasn't meant to be, we're asking why. It is said that there will be 20,000 appointments in 2018, but that is not enough, at least 50,000 teachers must be appointed to improve this quality. Anyway, you think the economy's growing 11 percent, and things are going well, so don't cut the money, we tell others, Rezas, don't lose it to them, give it to the teachers. Besides, the teacher doesn't get paid, temporary, contractual. We need staff teachers. We need educators who feel safe. Sadly, teachers experience the most difficult years in terms of working conditions, wages, future security, and working peace. It's a fact that the Ministry destroys teachers. How do we know that? It's research. According to one study, three or four of the five teachers say that their professional efficiency has dropped, that their profession has lost its reputation, that if it has a good job, it will give up teaching, and that it is hopeless from the future. Friends, at the moment there is an extremely unhappy group of researchers under the national educational framework. If these Parliaments and those who are present do not intervene today, the future and staff of about 14,000 NGOs will be uncertain in fifteen days. Last month, the SEC approved that they be able to return to their former staff, when their staff was taken from them in accordance with the law. The application was left to the rectors' opinion. But Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, my fellow bureaucrats, my dear fellow congressmen, and your rectors are not Hazreti Omar, so you expect them to have justice. Therefore, most of your rectors have acted in good faith and led these friends to them, but they have set many conditions, and many of the rectors have not. I'd like to say a few things about these rectors: A lot of the rectors explained that they're going to take in non-registered, non-conditioned, NGO research officers to their former staff, while some of the rectors have gone up with some criteria, while some of the rectors have gone over their ears. In particular, I would like to say to these rectors that we have been questioning their conscience with their victims after July 15th: Come, do not engage in the plague; the right of the slave is not a burden to be carried away. Mr. Erdogan, hire 2 more people in the business world. When you say, "You're firing young people with no grounds for the scientific future of this country, which we've trained for many years, where families and the country have been working with a great deal of hard work, with a lot of money, with a lot of money, with a lot of language, with a lot of money, with a lot of money, with a lot of science, with a lot of education, with a lot of money, with a lot of money, and you're not giving back staffs. Besides, they're gonna burn for good on January 1st, and it's not gonna work for you. Besides, 60 colleges do this, while others don't do it arbitraryly while they're taking the RD proposal. There's no legal barrier, there's nothing to be afraid of. You've enjoyed it, it's unfair. As Mr. Professor Yekta Saraç Hoxha and 65,000 students solve their problems, I still believe that we will find a human and conscientious solution for these academics. Dear friends, a heart-wrenching and conscience-wrenching subject is the victim of a decree of the law. You know as well as I do that some of the decisions that have been made in a hurry on the basis of anti-profit measures are wrong. For example, all members of a training union were expelled. Could it be such a wholesale accusation? The State of Emergency Commission still hasn't decided on the victims. Obviously, the goal of this Commission is to stall the victims and block the way to the European Court of Human Rights. Look, another victim took place in Izmir. We founded the University of İzmir Democracy and the University of Copperchay. During the organisation's law, the AKP has promised that university academics, especially academics in İzmir, who have been closed under a decree under the rule of law, will be taken first to these universities, and the İzmir MPs have made this particular promise. Now, these rectors, I don't accept these decisions, these conditions. They don't even want to let the academics who won the exam through the college door. You know that many of these academics are innocent. They were just in those schools for food and work, and you're putting these talented, grown-up experts out of work. Keep your word, at least keep your word for once. In addition, these academics and other academics are not employed in universities, despite the government's decision, although there is no crime, no sin. Thousands of educators, without charges, without a court order, without a statement, without a legal reason are unemployed. Why the cruelty? Are these people going to eat rocks? You want them to steal? That's why we're waiting for these injustices to be dealt with. Another group of students are waiting for your forgiveness and for the removal of injustice. The students want forgiveness, you don't. In recent years, many turbulent events have occurred in this country, many families have suffered. In these difficult years, these young people are our children who have had to leave school because of poverty, family problems, death or disease. If we don't grant forgiveness to these people who have grown up but whose education is incomplete, then this country will actually lose, and we will destroy these young people. These young people want to read. For what reason and for why do we interfere with the education of these young people? There's no harm in them returning to their studies, completing their schools and residency. Forgiveness is a big deal. As it suits the name of this Assembly, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must forgive these students, their own children, this country's children, and give them a chance to read and complete their education once again. Another topic is our main title, PTSD. And as for the OSYM, whose middle name is scandal -- whether he steals the questions, he miscalculates the points, confuses the winners with the ones who don't -- but every time he does it by mistake, he messes up thousands of people's psychology, yet he creates hundreds of thousands of victims, but I have hopes that the new administration of the OSSIM will heal these wounds and make an effort on the way to a more reliable institution. OSCE is a troubled institution, and worst of all, its approach to problems is a troubled institution. He's had a lot of scandals over the years, lots of motions, lots of questions, but none of them have been answered. For example, it turns out that more than 300 people have 120 nets per 120, and at least 20 percent of champions are from married couples, brothers and friends living in the same house at the 2010 KPSS exam. The perpetrators of this 2010 KPSS are unknown, while the victims are still victims. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll finish with two sentences.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0016par0489	I'll give you one more minute to finish your words, Mr. Irgil, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0015par0490	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I know you're all getting these victims, and you're all getting these educational problems, and they're on the phone, and they're e-mailing you. But you are silent, even though you know it. When it comes down to it, there's a sentence you don't let go; it's the mute devil who's silent in the face of injustice. Then why are you silent? These people have sent you here as a cure for their troubles. Your only concern is the palace, but remember, the palaces fall down, the giants pass, the people forget what you've done, your silence, and history doesn't forgive you. I'm talking to all the party groups about P.O.P., about student forgiveness, especially about these two things. You don't leave ash on the grill. Do you have any words from the HDP, Ahmet Hajji? Members of the AKP's National Education Commission, you're always right when we sit alone on student forgiveness regarding the SIP? Come on, say it here, let's find a solution to these kids in 15 days.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0017par0492	Yeah, go ahead. Let's go!
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0015par0493	I've been clearly bullied, so please give me a say. At least talk to the kids for another three or five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0018par0495	Thank you, Mr. Irgil.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0019par0496	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0020par0497	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0018par0498	Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0019par0499	Yes, I've been a scholar at different universities in this country for 21 years. He was. Really, I'd like to say a few words about the SOP.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0018par0500	Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0019par0503	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, I'll take this opportunity to tell Mr. Minister of National Education and the head of the NGO from here. Indeed, as the problems of education and higher education in the country are not enough, we are increasing the new problem areas day by day. Let me give you an example. I told you when I was talking about this entire budget. Look, you're right. According to 2002, the number of university students in this country increased by 2.5 times, the number of universities increased by 2 times, and there was a significant increase in population, but the share of higher education, according to 2002, did not increase in general budgets. This is a serious handicap. I'll tell you about the SOP. So each of these KHKs and each of its articles have caused a social injury, but the 49th article of the 774 Law passed on September 1, 2016 changed the status of 13170 researchers. What did he do? In Article 33/a, they transferred the research workers with relatively assurances to the post-doctorate, 50/d). Look, Mr. Secretary, you're also a lawyer. For one thing, the fact that changes don't come back against us is a universal law norm, and it's our constitutional guarantee. Now, 13.170 researchers will remain outside the door after their doctorate is finished. You might be making this change -- we're against the basic spirit of the KHK, but if you're doing it -- then it's true for the assistants who were bought with the SOP program after that, it can't negatively affect what was taken until then. This is contrary to universal law norms, nor to the Constitution. And immediately, I'm saying that the removal of these investigative officers who will be out of work with the next year is a command of the universal law norm and an executive order of the Constitution. I'd especially like to ask your sensitivity in this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0021par0510	Especially the ones who have so far been unemployed, the ones who have finished their Ph.D., they need to come back.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0019par0511	All after September 1, 2016...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0021par0512	Yeah, exactly.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0022par0513	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Akçay, you say there's direct bullying, no problem.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0023par0515	Yeah, well, he doesn't need explanations, so it's obvious.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0024par0516	Especially when we're picking on each other so the DOA can have a little talk.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0022par0517	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0023par0519	Don't be unfair to the National Movement Party, Congressman. In the problems related to the Teacher's Development Programme, we have done all the work that a member of the National Movement Party has to do, including MPs and myself. In addition, our fellow lawmakers, who are members of the National Education Commission, have often expressed the issue when it comes to it. Mr. Kamil Aydın, Mr. Zuhal Topcu, Mr. Erkan Akçay and things I can't remember...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0024par0520	Desire Virtue.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0023par0521	Desire Virtue. ...on various occasions. This is an important problem. Around 15,000 are victims of this SOP; it has made the future of the permanent staff uncertain. July 15th, we had a coup attempt, it's understandable. There's an investigation, a security investigation, and then there's a need to repair the victim. So for now, these are the issues that I can repeat in this time. The NGO issue is a subject followed by the National Movement Party, and we will continue to pursue it. I'd also like to thank our unfair congressman for bringing this up. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0025par0526	Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0026par0527	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0025par0528	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0026par0529	Does the opposition party have nothing to say about the training program? There is no beis here, but the members of the National Movement Party watching the Assembly may have thought that our MP had done an injustice to the MP. Therefore, we see the benefit of making a one-minute statement, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0025par0530	From your position, Mr. Irgil, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0027par0533	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, first of all, I'd like to thank all the party groups. My concern was to have a little more talk and bring it up. I'm here... actually, for the record, it's a good thing you made that promise. As it turns out, all parties agree on DOA. I think that's what the AK PARTY thinks about it, and I think the AC is good-willed, and I believe you're about to say it, and they're going to say it. Come, then, all of us, let's put this funeral to rest, and in 15 days, let's give our friends hope, let's cheer them up. These are grown-ups, these people don't grow up easy. Let us consider the sleepless nights of mothers, the experiences of these children, the sufferings of poor families, and let us not put these rectors under this burden, and let us not leave the rectors alone with this decision. Let's say they're all on duty. And let's not lose any friends who've had their Ph.D.s so far, and let them get back to their duties, that's all I ask. I thank the House for its sensitivity.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0025par0535	Thank you for your sensitivity, Mr. Irgil. 1) Ministry of the European Union's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2016 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) Ministry of National Education Central Management Budget for 2018 2) National Ministry of Education 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Death, Choosing and Responsibility Office [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for 2018 is the chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) Metric, Selection and Placement Centre Chairman 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The Board of Higher Education 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2016 Central Management Final Account On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the speeches continue. Now, to speak, Mr. Metin Lütfi Baydar. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Baydar, we missed you. Your time is nine minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0028par0563	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, Mr. Secretary, you say that almost every opportunity in the budget is the largest share of national education, but the education budget has been reduced by 9.95 per cent in illegal domestic revenues last year, and 7.27 per cent in central management budget. From 2003 until now, the number of public universities has increased by 111 per cent, while the higher education budget has only increased by 59 per cent. Again, last year's budget for the institute of higher education has been reduced by 5.95 per cent. I mean, Mr. Secretary, I'm afraid there's no budget for your janitor. The 27.7 billion share for the SEC and universities is 3.6 per cent of the total budget. Sixty-seven per cent of university budgets are sufficient for the staff's salary and other services. There's very little left for investment and research. I think the figure that the Minister of Science, Industry and Technology, speaking on RD, described as $8.2 billion, is not real. In fact, it's not even close to the 1% you've started to pronounce in the last few years in national revenues. By the way, don't try to sell it to us, Mr. Secretary, that the number of universities is increasing in education by 2003. The universities you've just opened are converted to a sign university that produces science, provides scientific savings for individuals it raises, questions, researches, thinks, creates human beings, whereas your wrong policies have failed. Almost all newly opened universities are used to provide political profit for your government. In recent times, it is thought that nine or ten ▪ of the newly appointed rectors were appointed only by our professors of theology. You fill up a semester, you go to colleges, you try to clean up now. And now you're making the appointment of the Hakyol Foundation or of the Alexanderpaşa congregation, so you haven't been burned by the milk. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In universities, you don't grow one type of man, you have people of all colors, you have debates, you have common intelligence; you can't produce enough patents and scientific studies because you can't do that, you're playing scientist at universities. The NGO has prepared a statement for Jerusalem, but why should the PLO be the model of governance in Jerusalem? It does not suggest a model of governance to the world, by taking international public with it, by organizing an international symposium, where the representatives of the three heavenly religions will participate? The URAP Research Laboratory, which is part of the Institute of Informatics at Middle East Technical University, listed the world's best 2,500 universities, and we don't have the first 500-percent university on the list, Mr. Secretary. The difference in development between the east and west of the country, the industrialization distortion, is reflected in university budgets as well. The budgets for Istanbul, Ankara, Gazi and Hacettepe Universitys are higher than the total budget of 40-budget universities. Again, the budget of the top 10 universities is one third of the budget for total universities - the lion's share. These highest-budget universities have no sense of competing with other universities. The SEC was designed with 18 universities in 1982. Today's 184 is underprivileged for 250 universities in Turkey tomorrow, with neither coordination nor control nor a balancing mission for university budgets. The model of the higher education ministry must be changed immediately. In this model, academic autonomy and freedoms must be protected, a righteous, righteous system that will end nepotism and nepotism with an understanding of governance that treats everyone equally. No thought that does not apply to terror, violence, and hate should be forbidden. An institutional image in the image alone is neither adequate nor appropriate for the SEC. You're in charge of this transformation, Mr. Secretary. Recently, TÜİK announced unemployment data. The youth population has reached 20 per cent unemployment. According to OECD data, Turkey was among the first three countries to have the most negative picture in the unemployment rate of higher education graduates. When you were in power, you built highways, you built bridges, you built tunnels, you united continents under the sea, but you still haven't solved the housing issue of our students. [[Applause from CHP rows]] As of today, we have a total of 109 thousand teachers short in pre-school, elementary school, secondary school and high school. An important part of this gap is being tried to close with our underpaid teachers. The Minister of Economics is coming out. He says, "We've broken the record with 11.1 percent growth." He says, "We've broken the record with 11.1 percent growth. But our teachers waiting to be appointed are not appointed, but are underpaid teachers instead." Dear lawmakers, the government does not want the development of education in the country, its quality increased. He doesn't want it because he's uncomfortable with conscious, thinking, questioning, arguing, seeking his rights. Taner Yildiz, who served as minister of the AKP government, expressed his illness on public television. What did he say, Star? As the level of education increases, we see that the area addressed by the AKP has become even narrower. That's what the polls tell us. So, Mr. Secretary, you see the main purpose of education, which is the... of the national, is to raise generations to vote for you so that you can continue in power. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, just three days ago, you assembled students in nearby schools, as you did before the referendum at the opening ceremony of the Skopjedar subway, which your president opened. Why are you keeping our students from their studies, Mr. Secretary? But you have no concern as to whether or not the children are well educated. How can you high school students vote for us? In short, the rise in education in the country is not working for you. Therefore, you have made the field the Minister of National Education of non-educating people. That's why you've been constantly changing the education system. Therefore, from the curriculum prepared, you have brought up daily matters concerning Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Therefore, you have uncovered the Teacher Talk Project outside of knitting training. Therefore, you delivered national education into the hands of the foundations, the associations. Mr. Secretary, it is a shame for you that 43 of our unappointed teachers committed suicide. The six Turkish liras from our teacher's pocket who committed suicide because he couldn't account for it are your shame. The Turkish education system of PISA Director Andreas Schleicher has failed to adapt to the world. At the beginning of each semester, it's a shame for you to have families calling us to move their children into dorms who are going to start college. It is a shame for you to force families to emigrate with the new system you brought from secondary school to high school. It is a shame for you to learn on TV that the TEOG exam will be lifted. (HPP) It is even greater shame to leave the vital educational system between the two lips of one person who has been constantly deceived and to squander the future. It is your greatest shame if you set out fifteen years ago and created a Turkey where poverty and prohibitions increased, and you did not care about corruption. I'm saying enough of this shame, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0029par0581	Thank you, Mr. Baydar. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, our last speaker, Mr. Gaye Eskişehir MP, Mr. Besheller. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Niceler, your time is nine minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0030par0586	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. The budgets, which predetermined the amount of income a country's income will be collected from, are the most concrete economic and political texts to show which classes of political power are acting in the best interest. I read the budget budget in the 2018 budget with no breath and curiosity. Unfortunately, the 2018 budget is no different from the main character of the 2016 and 2017 educational budgets. For the year 2018, over 1 million education workers were earmarked to the Ministry of National Education, which served nearly 18 million students, for 92 billion, 529m euros. For years, we have divided the largest share of the budget into education. But when we look at the share in the budget, all we can see is empty, empty propaganda. With this budget, how will you increase access and quality to education? Look, 69% of the MEB budget is employees' expenses of 80 per cent, including employee payments, 11 per cent as social security state premiums. From the remaining 20 per cent, 9.5 per cent for purchases of goods and services, 3 per cent for current transfers and 7.5 per cent for other expenses. The national income rate of the MEB budget in 2017 was 3.54 per cent in 2017. The 2018 budget is 2.69 per cent. So with the taxes of the nation, the amount of income earned by its labor has been reduced to education. The education budget has been increased. For those who say, I'm giving these numbers again as a math lesson. It's unscientific and unfair that the budget is divided within itself. Education investments dropped to 17.8 per cent in 2002; in 2018, to 8.36 per cent. You know what the difference is? The difference is roughly the economic expression of privatisation in education, marketing in education. Where did the biggest share of the budget go? To the General Directorate of Religion Teaching. Last year's share of this administration has been increased by 68 percent. 6.6 billion dollars of the $7.7 billion religious education grant will be used for imam-hatip schools. These expenses, in fact, friends, are purely religious spending. Friends, please be clear, add this $7.7 billion to the Ministry of Religious Affairs budget, and the citizen will see the truth. Come on, let's check out the colleges. Over the past 15 years, the number of universities increased from 53 to 112, and the total number of universities with specials increased to 179. The number of students reached 7.6 million from 1.9 million. Well, what about employment... sorry, college doesn't open like a grocery store. The government's job is not only to open a university, but to create suitable employment opportunities. About 1 million college graduates join the unemployed army of unemployed people from four college graduates. Look at the purges at the academy after July 15th. Colleges were orphaned and orphaned after July 15th, colleges were unclaimed. Look at the state of the universities that are away from science, from scientific activities, and look at your re-enlisting policy. The Minister of Energy said, "I studied in congregation schools, but I didn't rent my mind. See, they paid students of closed universities, students of public education, teachers of those schools to study, and they didn't rent their minds. Well, why did you plug it in, why did they chip it in, and I'd like to ask Mr. Energy Minister here on this occasion. Look at the state of the appointed rectors, and look at the mentality of Karamanoglu Mehmetbey University, which has declared an assistant professor staff to fight the devil. Look, look, let's all look together again so we can see again. The education budget means the budget to improve education. I ask: What part of this budget is worth what student, which teacher, and which guardian? With this budget, how are colleges going to be a science nest, how are they going to produce information? You said, Mr. Secretary, there are qualified schools in this country, unqualified schools in this country. That's true, and I'll add: there's a qualified university in this country, and then there's unqualified universities. So, Mr. Secretary, how are you going to improve quality with this budget? With this budget, you can't solve the school warming problem. You can't correct the physical conditions of the classrooms. In their toilets, in their hallways, you cannot provide proper medical conditions for education. You can't save moms from school-cleaning because they can't pay the dues. But you make education a burden to the minimum wager who can't make it to the end of the month because it's service money, stationery money. You can't assign teachers to the areas in need, you can continue to employ paid and contract teachers under the conditions of slavery. You can't know the social rights of education workers, you can't do the improvements they deserve in their wages. You can't solve the problem with this budget. The rate of technological advances in the world is increasing day by day, and you can't open a lab to schools with this budget, and you can't equipped them with technical tools. Especially when you can't fill libraries with scientific resources, artifacts that shed light on humanity, and with that budget, you're never, ever going to be able to provide quality education for disabled children. So, what can you do with this budget? With this budget, you'll fail the PISA exams again. With this budget, you'll be at the last in the OECD ranking again, you won't be able to get into the top 500 most advanced universities in the world. Every day in the space age, a new planet is being discovered, and you continue to put flags on the satellite of foreign countries and deceive both yourselves and the nation, as the local and national satellite. [[Applause from CHP rows]] With this budget, it is said to the citizens: "Restrain from eating, and from drinking, brother. So give up your health. Well, if you're teaching kids, you can't eat less. Is it easy for you to teach children? Don't take anything over your head, don't live like a man; give from your life, teach from your child. That's exactly what you tell a citizen with this budget for education. So why do you always call on the citizen to sacrifice? Then you make the sacrifice. For example, waive the 700,000 dollar watch on your arm, such as the tax-free millions that were sent from Man Island. If you don't do it, take the money from your co-owners, whose tax debt you've erased by close to 15 billion, and invest it in education. Give up your million-dollar cars, your planes, your palaces where you don't get off the hill. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have a minute, please?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0031par0601	Mr. Niceler, I'll give you one more minute to finish your vows. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0030par0603	Education is a constitutional right. The 2018 MEB budget should be created with the aim of unconditional secular and scientific education, provided education is equal and free for all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, when I complete my words, these words are sincerely in your hearts. I'm not calling your fingers, I'm calling your hearts. When we discuss this budget and vote this budget, let's put our hearts together. Let's not have a conscience this time, let's have a conscience this time, shall we? I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit01spe0032par0607	Thank you, Mr. Niceer. Congressmans, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the speeches are complete. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0032par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 41st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission is in place, the government is in place. It is now up to our Democratic Party MP, Mr. Ertugrul Kürkçı, who belongs to the People's Democratic Party. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. Furry, your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0033par0008	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, we will discuss the budget of the Ministry of the European Union. The strategic plans of the minister's proposal to the Plan and Budget Commission, particularly in 2022, covering an integration process with the European Union, which includes Turkey as a member of the European Union, were adopted here without changing a word. These same things were expressed yesterday by the Foreign Minister in more general terms than the Parliamentary bench. But then there's the truth. After the Justice and Development Party's 15 years in power, we know that what is called Turkey's foreign policy is basically a fantasy of the President of the Justice and Development Party's dreams, fantasies, fictions of the outside world. The Chairman of the Justice and Development Party expresss a story about the outside world he reads from inside the prism, which is changing depending on the possibilities or impossibilities that this provides for the inner power struggle, by force from every bench he finds every day. Isn't it a contradiction how to relate the view of the Ministry of the European Union and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the understanding of the traitor West, which is expressed here in a strong and persistent manner? I think we need to find an answer to that question. I don't think it's a contradiction and a contradiction. It's not a contradiction because the president of the Justice and Development Party represents the general direction of government and power, which, on the horizon, you know, in this foreign policy horizon, has the idea of redification, but this is now translated into red persimmons with an Islamic vaccine. The diplomatic apparatus of this red palm is also expressed daily in an intervention that is a strange fracture of the selefi jihadism and Mongol invasion. But of course, what you call politics is a fluctuating process, which is that there are strong structures in Turkey that hope for something other than foreign policy, which the Justice and Development Party has not adopted, and the public that is generally facing the West is not convinced yet. However, although the EU integration perspective has weakened from this angle, an app is being held in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs portfolio as an avant-garde. So it's not a contradiction when the President General talks like that, the Minister of the European Union and the Secretary of State. But on the other hand, there's a contradiction, which is a strange spiral of Turkey's 20th-century patterns, following all the fluctuations in the 21st century, that it needs time to change direction, that it can't do it, that it can't do it, that it can't do it, that it can't do it again, but that's a question for us to answer. This can't just be explained by the government's nonsense, it's about the massive shift of the international axis, as if it were a tectonic shift, when large records across continents began to shift and create new breaking points. There are two major factors: the regression of the United States, the recession of the European Union, the progress of China and Russia, among other things, major changes in the Arab world, particularly in the southern part of Turkey. It's a fact that we can't read it within the 20th century status quo, but the formula the Justice and Development Party came up with is completely irrelevant to the expectations of this community. No matter where the continents shift, no matter how the world changes, no matter how Turkey is affected by the change of the world, there are two demands for the people of Turkey: one is prosperity, the second is freedom. Turkey has begun to suffer and suffer from all international relations that do not bring prosperity and freedom to the entire community, the majority, the vast sum of our people. For the Justice and Development Party, this is about the fact that there is an opportunity for strengthening power, and the second is whether the pilgrim has created new capital investors and new power fields for capitalists. In this context, the European Union is no longer seen as an opportunity, but in the days when the day was being tried, especially when the Armed Forces were seen as an opportunity to break custody of society and politics, it was scalded, but now that the European Union has been pulverized, it doesn't change for us. There are two Europeans for us: one is the Europe of banks, trusts, financial capital; the other is the Europe of the people, of the people, of the people, of the people, of the hope and the possibility of social Europe. Our whole hope for the future is a form of relationship in the world and in Europe, where the power of the peoples has risen and their partnerships have flourished. To put it simply, the importance of the European Union or the European continent today is that there is a culture, civilization, and the future horizon of a continent where human rights are born, flourished, flourished, and now decorated with new rights categories. There's a deep conflict between bankers, trusts, financial capital Europe and this Europe. This Europe is actually conflicting with all the forces that the Justice and Development Party supports as it rises through Europe. Conservative Europe and human rights Europe are not the same place, but the foreign policy of the Conservative European Party for Justice and Development is a foreign policy that hopes to use anger against human rights Europe. It is clear that whoever represents the right-wing Europe, racist Europe, Islamophobic Europe, which is pumped into Turkey today, they are the allies of the Justice and Development Party on the Council of Europe and in the European Union. The newly formed group of Free Democrats, founded in the European Union, are all people who are known for their right-wing, abuse, corruption and have been adopted, and the Justice and Development Party has assigned seven people to that group. There are two groups in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the United Left and Socialists, which are holding firmly around the axis of democracy and human rights. Other than that, wherever right-wingers are, racists are almost there, representatives of the Justice and Development Party. How should this contradiction be explained? It's very simple to explain. Don't pretend to be against the racists in order to maintain control of the capital, and in order to strengthen the ideal of the red persimmons, that's what the whole game is all about. The People's Democratic Party does not see itself as a hope of salvation, a horizon of the future, a prospect of the future, but it is the argument itself that Turkey's accession process itself provides the most important momentum for the internalisation of human rights, democracy and the principles of the legal state in Turkey. Whether Turkey is a member of the European Union or not, whether it works against it or not, the People's Democratic Party will continue to work for the creation of an international community, where human rights, equality, freedom, justice has become an opportunity and a principle. Some European countries may or may not be European institutions, but Turkey will continue to work with human rights Europe, which is possible to establish a Turkey whose human rights are dominated by Turkey, especially in order to set up the future and freedom of the Kurdish people with Turkey. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0034par0019	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. Now it belongs to our Diyarbakır MP, Feleknas Uca. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. Uca, your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0035par0024	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party on the budget of the European Ministry. I salute you all. I salute our now held hostage co-chairs, lawmakers, co-chairs, and all our people. Last year on this date, here, again, we discussed the European Ministry budget. However, this budget is still unclear for what purpose. This budget is not a budget for identifying peace and fundamental rights and freedoms in our country. Today, we face much deeper and more institutionalized problems, as the State of Emergency has been in effect for 17 months. After the State of Emergency was declared, government officials stressed that it would continue to be brief, but it is extended for the fifth time. With the State of Emergency becoming a regime in our country, antidemocratic practices became widespread and systematic. A year ago, the government legitimized the State of Emergency by imitating France. But you know that France soon removed the State of Emergency. In addition, during the time of the State of Emergency, there was not a law in France, such as by law, issued. France has not and has not shut down the activities of any press-release organization, any NGO. No academic or public official has been discharged. However, the State of Emergency in Turkey has become a device for implementing pressure and antidemocratic practices in the hands of the ruling government. The State of Emergency, an exception to which democracy has been completely suspended, has been a regular regime in our country for a year and a half. The State of Emergency, declared under the name Anti-Terrorism, was used against all opposing parties through the provisions of the law. Thus, Turkey became an open prison. Dear lawmakers, one of the basic statements that the AKP used in its establishment was: "We have removed the State of Emergency." The AKP is also the one who has ruled this country for 17 months, making it a regime. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear lawmakers, full accession talks between Turkey and the European Union began in 2005 at the breaking point today. The most important reason is, of course, antidemocratic practices that have reached the top with the State of Emergency. Turkey's society has been a cultural, political and economically aggressive society throughout the history of the republic, but as you know, there has been a significant development that has brought the European Union to the point of dissolution over the past year. The first is the European Council's decision to retake Turkey's control process in a vote held in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. At the same time, Turkey was the first country to go back into the process of reviewing after it was released from the monitoring process. Again, as you know, the report on the immediate and official suspension of accession talks with Turkey has been similarly accepted. The European Union's 2018 budget has cut back on the envisioned funds for Turkey. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary: Does the government, which shares the establishment of prisons with the public in the form of good news, really intend to enter the European Union? Are you aware that all these antidemocratic practices conducted by the government inside have been seriously criticised internationally? How will the party's co-chairs, MPs and mayors, elected by the will of the people, enter the European Union? Minister, what level and where is Turkey's relationship with Europe today? Since its establishment in 2011, what has the Ministry of the European Union done as concrete gains within the framework of full accession talks in the European Union? What kind of European Union policy do you intend to follow, aside from the European Parliament and the European Council's Parliamentary Union? You have to accept that the crisis between Turkey and the European Union and European institutions has become a structural crisis. The European opinion on Turkey today is that Turkey is no longer a legal state. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you a much more fundamental question: does the ruling party you are Mensubu have a goal to enter the European Union? If you have such a goal, why do you not make any effort to harmonise Turkey's legal and administrative system with Europe? If power does not have a goal to enter the European Union, what is the main reason for the European Union's existence, which is to accelerate the European Union's accession process, monitor developments and coordinate post-accession work? Again, where was the budget for the European Union's ministry spent in 2017, when negotiations were suspended conditionally? How do you plan to spend some $350m in funding, function and the institutional purpose, which will be earmarked to the Ministry of the European Union for 2018? Dear lawmakers, it's a pity that policy-making against Kurdish gains has become the main road map of the AKP government. This is not only in-house, but also in the relationship of power with the neighbours. The government built its policy on ignoring the will of the Kurds. The AKP is implementing this policy not only against the gains of Kurds in Turkey, but also against the gains of Kurds in Syria. The ruling party declares it did not accept the Kurds it accepted in Ankara yesterday. So who represents the Kurds in Syria? We do the study. It's not random, it's just a confession that corresponds to that policy. It is a rule of elimination that exposes itself to the ban on the word "curdistan" in this parliament. It is also a cultural and political concept, not only a geography, but also a cultural and political understanding. You can't ignore that. By banning the word Kurdistan, you cannot make this historical truth invisible, nor can you change its place in the memory and heart of Kurds. You can't resolve the Kurdish issue by seizing the fundamental rights of the Kurds by seizing their will. First, you must respect the fundamental rights and freedoms of Kurds. You must stop taking thousands of Kurds hostage along with the chosen ones representing the will of the Kurds. To do so, you must first remove the isolation over Mr. Ocalan, who has a key role in establishing peace in this country. Dear lawmakers, foreign policy begins inside. Full membership in Turkey's European Union will be a dream as long as the antidemocratic, oppressive conditions that occur within the country and reflect on foreign policy continue. Turkey will not be able to enter the European Union as long as the State of Emergency is under way in Turkey. With such progress, all of Turkey will suffer a great deal. Finally, last Friday was one of the fundamental religious and social values of the people of Ezidi. From here, I wish the Eid Day would be the means for the freedom of women and children still in the hands of ISIS. I celebrate the holiday of our entire persecution society, with faith that our people will build a free and democratic future in their own land. [[Applause from HDP rows]] I'd like to finish my speech with a prayer of persecution, which I hope will bring peace and brotherhood to our country. I mean, I've come to the right place. I saw beauty and happiness. It's all about unity and unity. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0036par0045	Thank you, Mr. Uca. Now it's time for our Siirt MP, Mr. Kadir Yıldırım.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0037par0048	Mr. President, we don't have a Minister of National Education.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0038par0049	There's no head of staff.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0036par0050	Mr. Lightning, your time is ten minutes. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0039par0052	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I pay my respects to all of you. Today, I'm thinking of giving a speech in the Ministry of National Education, and in general all across the government, and I'd like to start with the title of Opposition and Main Language Education of Islam. First of all, any opposition, which, according to Islam, does not involve violence or insult, was regarded as a mercy, and one voice and one thought was welcomed as disaster and torment. When we look at Islamic literature, we come across a lot of words that express opposition. They're the same, they're the same, they're the same, they're the same, they're the same, they're the same, they're the same, they're the same, they're the same, they're I want to focus especially on one of the two concepts, which are very important. The word "dispute" is mentioned in both the verse and the instigation. The way in which the passage is related to the languages:... (x) So one of the verses of Allah is that your languages are diverse. It means that, in a sense, your languages are opposing. So one voice, one thought, one argument shouldn't come out of a single language, it should come out of the collective of opposing languages, it's meant to be said here. And the Holy Prophet (ASV) says that this is very important to me -- well, I think it's a blessing that my people are divided into opposing wings, divided into opposing voices. That's why we look at the history of Islam and see that there are 12 sects that have emerged and there are 20 or so different anti-private groups of inventors. So, O Prophet, I have already considered for you. No need for you to think or to move after this. He did not say, but as a mercy to you. It's a blessing to have the opposition think and shape of my people. Now, when we look at the Ministry of National Education and look at all the institutions of power, we unfortunately see that the voice of opposition, which is this mercy, is completely blocked, completely silenced. However, no opposition voice that does not involve violence or insults should never be punished. So is Islam, and so is human rights. If anyone wants to do communism propaganda, it's his idea of opposition, whether it's Sharia propaganda, whether it's one or the other, let him promote this ideology. I repeat, if it does not involve violence and insult, look at the history of Islam, none of which have been heard or touched. The Prophet was on a front with his economist, his poet, his or her orator, and the other side was on one side, and everyone was doing their own propaganda, and they were never interfering with each other. So there's no point in you being able to silence, digest, toss, toss, and export so much in your own institutions. I'm afraid one of these recent discussions took place the other day. The use of the word "Kurdistan" is an opposing voice, a voice of opposition, and I would like to emphasize that the name "Kurdistan" is officially and a state policy, and the first person to use it, to express a specific geography and to practice, to practice, to practice, to practice, to practice, to practice in the 12th century is Sultan Senser, and Sultan Senser is the ancestors of the Turks, a ruler of Seljucians. So, to punish those who use it, in my opinion, is to cut off the money to Sultan Senser, and to his grandchildren, as punishment, that's what it means to me. So if there's gonna be a fine, that's for sure. Sultan Senser is the one who founded the Kurdistan, and it is those who follow in his footsteps. Kurds didn't build the Kurdistan, Turks did. When asked, "Where is it?" Look at the history of the Al-Kelebi, and look at the history of Seljuk. Each time, depending on demographic change, its borders have been changed, and that's the name of where the Kurds live entirely or most of the time. Oh, now you're going to say that Mr. Qadri has also used it, so let's cut him a fine of 12,000. The secret is there, the president is there, and I owe him my debt, but he's ready to pay for it, and I want to tell you right now.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0040par0062	Let him be a sacrifice, let him be a sacrifice, and we will give him with Sultan Senser.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0039par0063	And once again, the Holy Prophet has always known to take advantage of opposing voices. Behold, in the battle of Badr there were pagans who were taken captive, and there were idolaters. Do you know what the Holy Prophet has released these idolaters in exchange for? He freed those who were able to read and write to Muslim children and in return said: "The law, the wisdom, the knowledge, the science, these are the defeats of the believer. Wherever he finds it, he'll take it. Whether it's from the mouth of the consumers, whether it's from his pen or from his religion, take wisdom from his source, and don't look at his source. What are the Ministry of National Education and other institutions doing? Wherever there is a wise opponent, wherever there is an opposition voice, it is silenced, purged, expelled. Well, for God's sake, isn't there anyone else in this country as smart as you? I mean, where do you get the right to think for 70-80 million people? You've brought up a TEOG. It's from one voice. Unfortunately, you left him in the middle, and now they're looking for ways to go to the second, third change again. Well, if this were to be done within mutual consultation, in consultation with voices that are intelligent but opposing, would such confusion, such negativity have arisen? No. As for propaganda, I say again: in national education, in other places, in lawmakers, many of whom have been arrested, the reason for detention and punishment is this or that of propaganda of this opinion. If you don't trust your own state policy, if you can't do your own propaganda properly, or if you don't trust your monotheistic arguments, I'm telling you, shame on you. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Instead of fixing your own policies, one mind, one mind, one language, one language, one understanding, and knowing how to free yourself from your own, and use the voices that are opposing, there's no need to destroy them, silence them, silence them, destroy them, in a human sense, or in an Islamic sense. Finally, I'll tell you, the measure of recruitment is not to be near power, it's to be honest, it's to be licensed. When Osama bin Zayd, the prophet Osama bin Zeyd, who comes from a slave family, appointed a commander over the army, the closest one to him is Lord Ali, Lord Omar... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...there were great men like Hazreti Abubekir, but he looked at the merits, looked at the rights, and chose to appoint Osama bin Zayd, who came from the slave family. I pay my respects to your power as well as that understanding.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0041par0073	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Now it belongs to our Iğdır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman. Mr. Adıyaman, please. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0042par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the National Ministry of Education budget. First of all, before I start speaking, I'd like to say that the budget for the Ministry of National Education is a segregative budget. Number one: The policy to replace a woman who has not been equal to a man or a woman that has been going on for years continues in this budget as well. So it's a sexist budget, a budget that doesn't care about the education of women and young girls. Second: This budget is a budget based on ethnic discrimination, other than Turkey, which ignores other languages that exist in this country. Dear lawmakers, assimilation policies, which began from the early years of the republic over Kurdish, continued. But as this republic was established, while the Salvation War was being fought, the Kurds no doubt expected that their own language, their own culture, their own history would be banned in the republic. Thus, with the Constitution of 1924, only Turkish and Muslim could be the result of the official ideology imposed on our people by the nation's state and nation society project. For the past 15 years, the AKP's new republic has not changed in its new Turkish statement. These systematic pressures on the Kurdish language and its identity did not just continue with official bans, but with some practical applications that actually supported it. What happened? These policies were supported, especially by the policies of Kurds living in the geography, by constantly providing intensive Kurdish migration to the metropolitan areas, by economic investments, by the migration of Kurds to the west, and by the assimilation of Kurds. In fact, it is possible to say that one of the main reasons or most important reasons for the Kurdish problem is the prohibitions on Kurdish language, bans on Kurdish education. It is expected that a people who have been forbidden their speech and who have been humiliated will have a response against the beggars and those who have been forced against them, and they will not be able to defend themselves against it. To tell you the truth, dear friends, these government-issued assimilation policies have actually been one of the main sources that feeds the conflicting process that we're experiencing today. Mr. President, the concept of separatism is perceived as a case of schizophrenia in this country, or rather a schizophrenic case. Are the demands of over 25 million Kurdish citizens to express themselves and exist in their native language in education and institutional areas? Or is it his desire to learn his history, his culture, his literature, his art, separatism? Is it to demonstrate your will in another dimension, politically, economically and socially? I ask you, is that separatism? Of course it's not, but let's tell you what separatism is: denial of the basic rights of a people who are known for universal and international contracts, which is inherently divisive; to ignore it, to ignore it. If we're going to talk about separatism in this country, political understanding based on denial and rejection of all national demands, especially on the rights of Kurdish citizens from history, in their native language, is the separatists who put dynamite in this country's understanding of life together. They are the most important separatists who can't stand the concept of Kurdistan and Kurdistan, who try to convince themselves that it will be vaporized, that it will disappear, that it will be erased from their minds and hearts, that it will do the most damage to this country. In our history, Kurds have repeatedly demonstrated the will to live with the Turkish people for thousands of years. While the Ottoman Empire was being torn apart during the latest Liberation War, all the different nations in Ottoman rule, when the belonging to the Kurds were separated, once again demonstrated their will to live together, but in the new republic, when it was to be established, it did not reveal this will because it thought that the name of its own history, language, identity, geography would be banned. With the constitution of 1924, we began to experience a process in which armed people were never missing in the mountains of this country for 90 years as a result of a constitutional coup by the nationalist, racist factions. To ignore the most ancient people of this geography, over 25 million and from the depths of history, sitting in our seats without seeing these facts, is not to face the truth, but to really run away. Dear lawmakers, even by changing the existence of the name of Kurds, the co-Chairs and MPs of this Assembly will be held in the dungeons, while we, by the will of the Kurdish people, have been imprisoned in the prisons of over 90 languages elected mayors of the Kurdish people, including our right to oppose the existing provisions of the Constitution, and tens of thousands of Kurdish politicians are being held hostage illegally from this bench or from the media, while the name of the Kurds can't be concealed from the Kurdish people, even if it were to be covered by literature. Besides, the hostility towards Kurdish people is not only within the country; it shows how unrealistic this brotherhood is, even by 92 per cent, that you declare the outcome of the referendum, that you have a will to live under the sovereignty of Iraqi Arabs of the Kurds living in Iraq. In Rojava, the fact that the Kurdish people have been fighting the Baas regime for 70 years is a practical expression of hostility to the Kurds, even though they are out of the country. Dear friends, Mustafa Kemal, the founder of this country, has repeatedly expressed Kurdish, Kurdistan. In 1936, two years before his death, he called the regions you called the eastern and southeast Anatolian regions, curdistan. Why are you so afraid of the term "Kurdistan"? What is this fear?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0043par0091	Why should we be scared?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0044par0092	This is the state of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0042par0093	Does not use the word "Kurdistan" in Diyarbakir, Aşaşa, Şırnakta, Muşluta, Bitlis, Van (Kurkish) in Turkey destroy Kurdish reality? Does it cover or cover the fact that those cities are Kurdish cities? Of course not, dear friends. Whether you ignore it or forbid it, our Congressman Osman Baydemir made the best answer very clear in his speech that you've been punishing him. As Mr. Osman Baydemir said, Kurdistan is not just a geographical name, it is not an area where you draw its borders and control them with security forces, or suppress them or exploit them. Osman Baydemir said that Kurdistan is a place in the heart of millions. You can put him in the dungeons. I will make a Kurdish music video. He came to me, and Ahmet Kaya was killed, but his heart is alive, and his heart is in the Kurdistan of his heart. You punished Osman Baydemir, you fined him, you forbade him to speak here; he won't disappear. You have punished Osman Baydemir, but the heart of Osman Baydemir is beating. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have a minute?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0045par0096	I'll give you one more minute to complete your statement. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0042par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. You can't build a sense of common life in this country, not democracy or justice or, more importantly, by hiding behind the Constitution, where the coup d'état of September 12th has set before us. Dear friends, there are millions of hearts carrying the truth. Ahmet Kaya has been killed, Osman Baydemir There's still hearts beating in this country, there's a reality called heart, there's a reality called Kurdish people, there's a place called Kurdistan. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0046par0103	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0047par0104	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0046par0105	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0047par0106	In his speech on the stand, Mr. Adıyaman made a clear challenge saying that discrimination policies were being followed against the Kurds. I demand word in this frame.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0048par0107	Why should he tease you, he's ruling.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0046par0108	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0048par0110	You call that criticism, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0049par0113	Mr. President, dear friends, there are Kurds in this country, Turks in this country, and no one has a problem with that. What you've been saying in the Ottoman Empire is part of the nation's system. Modern states are based on the equality of citizens, and those citizens are found all over the country. Every square inch of this country is also for Kurds, for Turks. If you draw maps in your head, you're pursuing a vision of moving the past back into the future, with a different intention. The point is that in an advanced democracy... there were 1980 military coups in Turkey; then democracy developed in this country, and freedoms flourished. We may have problems, but this is democratic ground.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0050par0115	Where is it?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0049par0116	Whatever problem there is, it's the democratic ground, it's the way of democracy, and as you solve every problem in this country, you'll get the consent of Kurds and Turks, and you'll get the consent of 80 million people here.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0050par0117	Where is Denizhattin Demirtaş?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0051par0118	Where are the mayors?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0049par0119	Since 1984, there is a terrorist organization called the Kurds -- which has been referring to a large majority of these people -- including Kurds -- called the PKK -- that destroys this democratic ground. In combat, in combat, in terms of his terminology, he provokes the people against one another. You shouldn't surrender to politics on this floor.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0052par0120	Don't point that finger this way.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0053par0121	Mr. Naci, weren't you the head of the resolution commission?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0049par0122	Your duty must be, under all circumstances, the style, language, attitude, and style of the democratic floor. Please consider the will of 80 million. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0054par0125	Shame on you, you're a teacher!
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0055par0126	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0056par0127	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0057par0128	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0055par0129	One second, sir, one at a time.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0058par0130	Mr. Naci, you can't defend the resolution commission's report. What about the resolution commission report?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0059par0131	We'll talk.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0060par0132	You're talking, your finger's like...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0061par0133	Congressmans, please... this is your group's deputy president speaking. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0062par0135	He made a public attempt to lure social events into another place, and then publicly taunted our group. According to the Civil Charter 69, I demand a word of taunting.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0061par0136	Here you go, Mr. Lightning. Let's not get into any more bullying, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0062par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, frankly, I'd like to ask Naci Hoxha: Do you have a measurer of intent? What are you measuring people's intentions based on? What form of emotion do you really measure by which I use the concept? And do you realize that you've made a fool of yourself for a moment? I take your speech as you speak here as you speak, and I interpret it that way, and I'm not looking for any other intention. Why are you two going into a question of intent? Look, there are Kurds in this country, there are Turks. If you say... if God made me Kurd, he gave me a tongue, and I have a tongue. It's called Kurdish, and there's a piece of land, a piece of land that created me. In history, it's his identity with my nation, which is called the legacy from history to today. When I say it, it's a problem, but when someone else says it, it's not the name of geography, it's the name of the person you're talking about. I'm just saying, there's an x in Kurdish language, so what letter am I going to write it in, what letter am I going to write it in? No. It's written in the form of x, no. It's separate in the Kurdish language, and when you use it, it's a problem. It's not the neurosis, it's the use of the neuroses, it's the use of the neuroses. I didn't create that sound. Look, it's a voice, and there's a letter depicting that voice. Are we out of our minds, out of our minds, out of science? So in the factual reality of science, there is a detection of problems, a solution, and that methodology. We believe that there's a reality to the history of this country's history that we can solve by talking about it, but no, you want to solve it with an extreme doctrine, a security policy that we can solve with violence. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We don't think that this is the path of the mind, of the sign, of the imagination, of the morality, of the conscience. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0063par0146	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0064par0147	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0063par0148	Mr. Adıyaman, I'm listening.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0064par0149	Mr. Bostanist removed my speech from the context and made a completely different criticism or taunting.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0065par0150	The deputy leader of the group responded.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0066par0151	Your group vice president responded.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0064par0152	In my speech, there was no criticism of the AKP, nor the government directly, and he described my speech as a total act of terrorism. I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0067par0154	Sir, if you don't mind, your speech has already been recorded, and your group vice president has responded. I don't think you need an extra word.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0064par0155	My response to my personal...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0067par0156	Your group vice president gave it to me, but I don't think it's very...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0064par0157	Then I'd like word on 60, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0067par0158	Let's hear from Mr. Akçay, and then...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0064par0159	Okay.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0068par0160	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0067par0161	Mr. Tanal, I'll listen to you. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0069par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to express our views in this way: Now, one of the speakers on the stand earlier expressed his views in a reference from history, from some authors. One speaker also used the expression of the mayors, who were elected by the will of the Kurdish people. It's a separatist, separatist, ethnicist and racist style, Mr. President. So to distinguish citizens who vote according to their ethnic origins, culture, characteristics, is a citizen of the country of Turkey who votes. If we express the votes used in a city or district municipality in a number of ethnic terms, it is not possible to take the end of it, or if we call it a province, a district, a village, a geography based on some ethnic names and definitions, it would be very wrong. I have to finish, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0070par0169	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0069par0170	Now, I want to give you an example: my class is the name of a geographical region, like the Teke region, which contains some of Antalya, Burdur, and Mughla, like the Teke region; like the Kütahya, the bane, the Gediz basin, which includes Manisa, the Black Sea; like Bozok Yayla; like Yozgat and Corum, and the Bakırçay basin, which includes some of the parts of the land. If we go to some ethnic definitions of one and this province, this province, what do we say to the other provinces? Now, if you'll excuse me, Mr. President... I'm completing it.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0071par0174	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0069par0175	What do we say to the other regions if we call one area of this area, this area of this area? This is Turkey, the Republic of Turkey, and our provinces, our counties, have established names. It's called the Plain of Iconium. Do we have to define it as the plain? What shall we tell Hatay, what shall we tell Manisa, what shall we tell Istanbul, and what shall we tell Edirne? Please, I think it's useful for a member of a Turkish party to take into account these sensibilities of a public defender. We'd be doing a better job of handling matters, opinions like this. Otherwise we won't be able to get in front of it, we won't get in the way. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0072par0178	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Tanal, I'll take your request first.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0073par0180	My request, Mr. President, is that it was always called Turkishmen, Kurds, or Kurds, on the stand. In fact, if Turkey's geography is to be looked at, it is necessary to look at Çanakkale Martyrship. There's Kurds in this country, there's Turks, there's Arabs, there's Circes, there's Abazas, there's Georgians, there's Crushers, there's Chechens, there's Albanians.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0072par0181	What's your request, sir, let's take it.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0073par0182	So, in short, there are seventy-two nations in this country.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0074par0183	He's talking to the transcripts.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0073par0184	You can't separate anyone. There's strength in numbers, there's power in numbers. That's what I meant by that. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0075par0186	It's on the record. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0076par0188	Mr. President, I'm just saying for the record. Of course, about 80 million people living in this country, all of us are citizens of the Republic of Turkey, and we are not bothered by that. But now that our friends are expressing the fact that the Kurdish people's will was attacked by elected municipalities, how is this perceived as racism? Now, yes, we're all citizens of the Republic of Turkey, but certain ethnicities live heavily in certain geographys. Politically, when this political power launches a systematic attack on their organization, naturally, we perceive it as an attack on the will of that people. Otherwise, there's nothing going on, there's no way that political genocide operations, there's no way that there's a process where political organizations get in trouble, and we bring it up out of the blue. I want to finish with this: Six days ago, a word that we perceive as an attack on the freedom of thought and expression of a nation that fell on this Parliament would not have developed if it hadn't been used as a punishment for us or for our people or for those who supported us. Look, it's the prohibitive mentality that triggers these things. The criminal method that triggers these things is a very easy step-up to its organizational power, especially against a certain part of this country. I'm just saying, if we give up this easy punishment, the ban, the country's gonna be more relaxed, the country's gonna be easier to get back to normal. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0077par0194	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Adıyaman...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0078par0197	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. Bostanci spoke out of context. In fact, the citizenship of the Republic of Turkey is our common identity, of course, but it's an issue of equal use of rights born of that citizenship. Are we going to try to live together through denial of these rights, become equal citizens, build a voluntary, equal, free union over the delivery of rights? Just look at the Kurdish special education courses that you closed from the state of emergency: the Mesopotamian Cultural Centre -- for full education -- closed the Istanbul Kurdish Institute for Research and Development of Kurdish Language, Ferzat Vidinger Elementary School, Kurdish Writers Association, KÜRDI-DER and municipalities -- and closed dozens of institutions and schools for Kurdish language education. You've done this in the last year and a half, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0079par0201	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0080par0202	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0079par0203	Mr. Lightning, your request is... Sir, stand up and please convey your request.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0080par0205	Mr. President, according to 60, I'd like to take a stand because I have a right to an answer, of course, between my teacher Naci and Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0081par0206	It's a budget meeting, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0079par0207	You have a brief request for a statement according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0082par0209	I didn't use a minute there, and I want that, too.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0079par0210	Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0082par0212	Now, we need to separate racism from nationalism. Racism takes place in the history of Islam. So, whether he's right or wrong, it's to put his own race, the nation he belongs to, above any other race, above any other nation. This has been condemned, condemned, in general, by the Holy Prophet, and in Islam. But nationalism is a little different. The poorness of time divides nationalism: to love its people, to love the language of its people, to desire the development of its people. It's a bit of a... There's a sheriff, so it's his faith that a man loves his own country, his own country. One of the definitions of Bedizene is nationalism. For example... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0079par0215	Mr. Lightning, complete, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0082par0217	He's giving an example. And the nationalism that His Highness Said Nurseli refers to as the second category is nationalism, it's nationalism, it's nationalism against prodigious. He, in particular, began the day when Emevis began to take power, rule, and then Arab racism arose, and then he became a Muslim under the name of "Muslim" and was attacked or attacked by non-Arab elements until today. So, for example, there are those who accuse the MPP of racism, but Mr. Akçay, I think he's one of those who knows that racism is not the same as nationalism, and he's one of those who acknowledges that MHP is not racist, but he's a nationalist. So it's only natural for a party to consider itself nationalist, whether it's a person or a Turk, as natural as it is that a Kurdish person considers himself a nationalist, as long as it doesn't involve racism, fitness, corruption, separation, separation. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0079par0219	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0083par0222	Thank you, Mr. President. As the National Movement Party, we are a political party that accepts nationalism at the centre of politics, and who rejects the public as the basis of nationalism, and rejects racism with absolute certainty at the center of politics, while refusing to take even the slightest distinction, distinction, discrimination, discrimination, and discrimination. In that sense, in fact, all concepts can be defined in a very specific sense or in a very different way, but, of course, if we as a political party put nationalism in the name of our party and at the center of our program, of course, our Nationalist Action Party...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0084par0226	Complete, Mr. Akçay, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0083par0227	Thank you, Mr. President. ...it's also natural to understand the way we express it on our schedule. What I'm going to say is that our nationalism, the nationalism of the Nationalist Movement Party, is a composing, inclusive and enforcing nationalism that rejects nationalism, rejects discrimination, accepts all citizens of the Republic of Turkey around one nation; otherwise, of course, it is racist and ethnicism, which, naturally, fuels discrimination or different thoughts. You have to see it very well and evaluate these concepts with precision. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit02spe0085par0231	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Congressmans, I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0085par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. 1) Ministry of the European Union's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2016 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) Ministry of National Education Central Management Budget for 2018 2) National Ministry of Education 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Death, Choosing and Responsibility Office [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for 2018 is the chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) Metric, Selection and Placement Centre Chairman 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The Board of Higher Education 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2016 Central Management Final Account The commission is in place. The government is in place. Now, it's time for our Democratic Party Van MP, Mr. Lezgin Botan. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. Botan, your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0086par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Before we begin, our Co-Chairs, Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, Figen Yüksekdağ, and especially Mr. Bekir Kaya and Bekir Kaya, the mayor of my MP, Mr. Bekir Kaya, all the co-chairs of the municipality, who have been arrested in prison for their political ideas, all the revolutionary prisoners who have resisted for democracy, peace, justice. Dear friends, as it is known, Sinoplu Diogen used to look for people during the day with flashlights, I assure you, had he lived in this period of power, he would have probably been looking for justice with a flashlight, because if he had believed in democracy, if he had believed in justice, thousands of people would not have been tried or arrested today because of his political ideas. I'm a congressman, dear friends. A congressman has the authority to supervise on behalf of the public, to oversee the institutions of the state. The public gave us the authority to oversee this, and the party (A) did not make the distinction as a party (B) -- as we talk about the charter or the Constitution -- they probably didn't categorize those rights according to the parties. So, as a congressman, I can't visit my spouse presidents, our fellow lawmakers, who have been held hostage for four hundred and eleven days. We've applied to the Justice Department over and over again, as if it were a blessing, not returned to us, not answered, and I refer the legal outrage to the conscience of all the public, all the peoples of Turkey. I mean, what could be the reason we can't see each other, dear friends? When we ask that, we're not even subject to general law. HDP is being treated differently by Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP). Even that's a serious discrimination in itself. You know, we talk too much about discrimination. Every time we talk about it, someone objects. But I would like to say that neither Demirtaş nor Demirtaş's friends have escaped trial nor have we escaped from the courts, nor have we escaped from accountability. If you have the courage, if you really believe you're right, it's so important that Turkey's third-largest party, you've captured co-chairs, lawmakers of a party with a group, at least take them out before the courts, who's right, who's guilty, who's guilty, who's guilty, who's guilty, who's right, who's right, who's right, who's got this process in front of all the public. But it turns out, unfortunately, there are also illegal wrestling here, and here the ball is constantly thrown into the crown, and our captors who are taken hostage, our co-chairs, our co-chairs, who have been held hostage, haven't been in court in a long time. Another issue is the isolation of Mr. Ocalan, who is known for its importance in the process of social peace in Turkey. Lockdown is a crime of humanity, no matter who my friends are applied to. Criminal law is defined, criminal law is defined, it doesn't change for people. There's a state mind, a state of seriousness. You can't categorize it based on the importance of people, the position. Since 2011, Mr. Ocalan has not been interviewed by his lawyers, Mr. Ocalan has not been interviewed by his family. If all those tried in Turkey are equal in the face of every political prisoner's trial, against the law, then why isn't Ocalan equal? Your Honor, why isn't Ocalan equal, like other citizens, unable to meet his family, his lawyers, his doctors, to benefit from his basic rights? He is currently in isolation as the most severe form of torture. In a position to bring peace, brotherhood, and justice to the people of Turkey, the isolation of Mr. Ocalan, in such a position, is to put dynamite under the peace, which means we do not want peace. Therefore, Mr. Ocalan needs to be removed from the lockdown on Mr. Ocalan and to be interviewed by his lawyers, his family, and his doctors, like any other prisoner. Perhaps this good path, this path of reason, leads us to the beginning of the democratic processes that should be happening again. Dear friends, the government says they've cleared the GERPs from the judiciary, but we're looking at cases like Balyoz, Ergenekon, Oda TV -- although most of these are approved by the Supreme Court -- the Constitutional Court has dropped by saying that it's a conspiracy, and I think he's done the right thing, yes, it's a scheme. But, in the same way, here again, the Kurds have been discriminated against. Nearly 10,000 Kurdish political prisoners were wrongfully tried, persecuted, still under the name TK. Again, prosecutors who have done so, even though the judges are being tried now, the KCK cases are still under way. The AKP is still insisting on these cases. This is serious discrimination. So when it comes to Kurds, I'm afraid we see that a partnership is still being maintained here, and we see it as an example, and we see it as an example. Gene, on the subject of the proceedings -- including our co-chairs, including our representatives -- look, in all of them, the General Assembly, all of them, what you call the GERP, are now under arrest prosecutors, judges, police, law enforcement, all of them, but they are still persistently being defended, and these proceedings are being brought out in front of us. Now, Mr. Bostanci just said, "Why do you carry past memory into the future?" And we don't have to worry about bringing the negatives of the past to the agenda of this Parliament today, but I'll tell you this: look, it's the prohibitive mentality that's causing this. This outlaw mentality has also been moved to this bench. And on this stand is the work of the Kurd, the Turk, the Laz, the Circechariah, everyone, the right, the sweat. That's what the Constitution says when we come here and speak for them, while someone takes refuge behind the Constitution of 1982." He can't wave at us, he can't show us the door. You're the host here, we're not the guests; you're the masters here, we're not the servants. Like you, we are a legitimate, democratic party that has received 6 million, 6.5 million votes and represents the public in a variety of cities of Turkey, almost 81. Don't wave your fingers at us all the time, and don't show us the door. It's nobody's business. Another thing, dear friends: Today I celebrate the day of the 18th, the day of the world of Arabic, and the day of all our citizens who speak Arabic. Mehmet Ali MP used a sentence here yesterday, a few sentences passed as an unknown language. Have fear of God. It is you who bring forth the beast with your tongue, and you who pray with your tongue. What you now call the unknown language is the language of the Quran, the language of the afterlife, the language of the Prophet, the language of worship, Mr. Mufti. How can you not know? And it is a language which ye pray in, and ye fast in fasting. The language of the Quran is unknown, and you have made the language of the verse unknowable. Shame on you! Look where this forbidden mind is drifting. Custody mentality, look, it's this disease, it gives it cancer. And can you imagine, I mean, in the July 15th coup, you had the imams read it with this language until morning. You know, Ezan won't shut up. You're saying that because our friend used a few sentences on this stand, right now, the forbidden language, Arabic has moved here. Haven't you learned that language in a thousand and four hundred years? What are you worshipping based on? What do you pray for? So, this outlaw mentality, look, just so he doesn't see his Kurdish mother... because you said it was an unknown language to Kurdish, that's why you're doing it. Look, I'll tell you something else, because you're here, usually, you know, in Kurdish, the unknown language, and now I'm asking you, what's the most expensive word in the world? Kurdistan. What a shame! If I count all the names of all the countries of the world here now, if I count all the names, it's not worth a penny, it's not worth a penny. But there's a fine of 12,000 lira. Mr. President, I mean, look, it's tragic. So, some of the things that were pushed back into the social subconscious that you're talking about, if it's coming back, we need to turn around and look at it a little bit. Again, we're discussing the budget here, dear friends. And when we say this is a war budget, someone shouts, calls, tries to read our intentions. Yeah, it's a hell of a war budget. Look, let me tell you something: who knows the burden of the military presence in Somalia, Kosovo, Afghanistan, Iraq, Qatar, Syria, Lebanon, Cyprus? Probably worth billions of dollars. Again, tens of thousands of rangers have a burden on the same budget because you can't solve the current problem, the Kurdish problem. We're giving money to other paramilitary organizations. There are talks and rumors in Europe that paramilitary organisations are being given money right now. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I need a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0087par0046	I'll give you one more minute to finish your vows. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0086par0048	We pay SSO gangs in Syria right now, we pay them, we give them money, we back them, but it's not anybody's father's money; look, it's 80 million, the poor, the workers, the workers, the workers, the workers, all of us, we have a right to know. And those coins are actually the provision of 1 million college graduates, the provision of 800,000 non-assigned health and education workers, the right to a raise of hundreds of thousands of pensioners, the right to the right of the people we sentence to minimum wage, the right of the people we rule under the laws of slavery, the right to the law, the right of the unsupervised orphan. Okay, we can say various things, we've had soldiers in Cyprus since 1974. How much do we keep, how much do we have to keep, do we need to reduce it, what are we doing in Syria, Iraq, other countries, whether we should be able to say a lot of things strategically, but we need to know that. It's a war budget, that's what we call a war budget. We've been through a lot of operations, constant conflicts, domestic, foreign stuff. That's what we deserve to know, because it's the right of an orphan. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0087par0051	Thank you, Mr. Botan. On behalf of the group, the final address belongs to our Gaziantep MP, Mr. Mahmut Toğrul. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. Toğrül, your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0088par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President and the General Assembly, I salute you all. Of course, in the meantime, I salute the citizens who are watching us on the screen, the co-captains who are being held hostage, and the MPs who are being held hostage. Dear friends, yesterday Smyrna Payed Kaymakcı was shot to death by two of his students before the High School of Anatolian Kökmen PTA meeting. I'm here to offer my condolences to the family of our colleague, our dear teacher, and to ask God's mercy. Sure, where did we come from? Mr. Secretary, you have to accept that there is a consequence of a policy that increases violence in education today that discredits the teacher. Dear friends, I've made a commitment to higher education budgets, NGOs and universities... now, the AKP has always said since it came to power in 2002, we will eliminate the guardian institutions, we will eliminate the custody. Dear friends, unfortunately, after the AKP took over these guardian institutions, it strengthened them even further, almost as an instrument of violence after it seized these institutions with an understanding of the spirit of September 12th. Look, my dear friends, our number of colleges has doubled, our number of students has doubled, but the budget in higher education, unfortunately, is not parallel to this increase. We opened up a college like a grocery store, and we thought we were going to open up a college with a sign on top of a building at these universities. We can all see it's not like that. Dear friends, the number of universities has increased twice as much today, but the quality of education and the quality of disciple-making, unfortunately, is on the floor. Because they don't have infrastructure, because they don't have labs, because they don't have databases for scientific activity, and we've increased the number of universities. Of course, we've taken the universities under control, friends, and we've decided what they're going to study, and how they're going to work, especially by creating an understanding, a perception. Look, is there a wound to this country, a single study of the Kurdish issue in our universities today? Because... no one wants to do it? There is, but with the perception created, I wonder what would happen to me if I worked on it, scientists. Dear friends, producing science at university requires that there be a primary human resource and a free scientific environment. In particular, on July 20, 2016, you started an OHL and the KHK regime, and we fired over 5,000 academics in universities without a single administrative or criminal investigation. Again, we only want peace. We've done nearly 400 of the academics who say, "We want peace." We didn't just put them out of business, dear friends. We'll almost get them out of citizenship if we're not embarrassed. We confiscated their passports, brought out a restraining order, brought in a restraining order on another job. Should these people starve to death? Dear friends, you need to answer that. Now, with the State of Emergency and the CDC regime, of course, I'd like to tell you a few examples of what colleges have become, what the NGO has become, dear friends. Look, where did you open the 2016-2017 academic year on October 18, 2016? You didn't do it in college, you did it in the palace. The presidents searched their robes for their marrow to button their way. You repeated the same painting this year. Again, another change, dear friends, you have committed new crimes against the SEC Disciplinary Code, making the code heavier than September 12th. You have authorized the rectors to throw away whoever they want without any investigation. Some of the other assistants were mentioned, and more than 13,000 academics who would have had their doctorate were unfortunately transferred to the staff. What is 50/d, dear friends? It's not just the people, it's the assistants who will be appointed according to this clause. What is this stuff? I get what I want, I call what I want. That's exactly what it stands for, because there's no job guarantee in 33/a -- if it's staffed -- but there's no job guarantee in 50/d). You have now not attached only 13,000 people to this program. At the same time, I employ those who are close to me in 13,000, those who are in my backyard, and I appoint others. You've eliminated the presidential election. Dear friends, you all remember, the presidential elections were asked to be added to a bag of legislation at the last minute. Three political opposition parties objected and were stopped at the time. What was done? You went behind the back of the law, you went behind the back of the law, you put it in a KHK, and one of the rectors is being thrown out. His explanation, sir, is that elections cause chaos in universities. I'm telling you clearly: the AKP government is making the real chaos in the elections. The AKP government is creating chaos in the elections. He makes enemies of this country, provokes each other, and almost in this country, differences can't say hello to each other. That's how it's supposed to be known. And Mr. AKP President Mashallah is an expert in everything. The National Minister of Education is changing exams as if they've been caught red-handed. For example, one day he visits the taxi stand, and he says: "I am not satisfied with this TEOG, this TEOG must be removed." He doesn't consult with anyone, he doesn't consult with occupational organizations, and suddenly he's forced to do what he says. Only on exams? Look, he's interfering with the professor's exam. The law on assistant professorship has previously been changed and has been prevented from promoting many people to exams or professorship. And now he says: "The assistant professorship must be lifted." With the adjunct exam, we find it very difficult to understand what expertise Mr. AKP's president is complicating, dear friends. Dear friends, you're condemning those who seek their work with the State of Emergency and the KHK, as in the case of Nuriya and Semih, to not search for their work. You've established an institution to delay results from the ECHR, the State of Emergency Review Commission. Mr. Secretary, what does this State of Emergency Review Commission do? Has he ever gone through a file? If he did, why wouldn't he? Late justice is not justice, dear friends. So far, the State of Emergency Commission has done nothing but increase the victimization of these people. That's how it's supposed to be known. Now, you've exported so many people... our head of staff is here. When I was a professor, Mr. SEC President was a member of the Executive Board. Let him say, for example, why did Mahmoud Toğrul wait ten years for the cast? But how did the Tigris University receive 1,991 professors from its own congregation? You'll do it, and then you'll come back and say, "We're dealing with the congregation." With all due respect, dear friends, the situation our universities are coming from today is your work, your work. You planted these on purpose. Because you created a perception in Turkey: in the economy, in the bureaucracy, in the academy, the way to rise was to stay close to them, to get a sign of closeness from them. Dear friends, as a result of all of this, the solution to the problem is very clear: universities must be liberated, AKP must draw the sword of Damocles (the AKP) on the academic. Unfair, unlawfully discharged people must be appointed to their duties immediately. You do forensics, administrative investigations about criminals, you punish them if they're guilty. But it is not acceptable to do so without any study. Marketing the SEC, reducing the public budget and creating your own source. Basic education policy does not exist in this country. We do not currently have a faculty in Turkey that will produce science, as basic education is called the faculty. The AKP eliminated them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I need a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0089par0078	I'll give you one more minute to finish your vows. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0088par0080	Therefore, the AKP must leave the universities to themselves. Colleges should work freely in their own way. So, are the academics the only ones who are worthy in this situation? Do you know what the students are like? They are still confined to the homes of the congregation. Students don't have dorms. Each of the universities has been turned into a police station. College isn't just a place where absurdity is taught, it's also a socialization environment. You see it as a danger for three students to get together. Students are unable to use a right to protest on any subject at our universities today, but on the other hand, violence is increasing, such as in the earlier example, violence is not diminishing. For that reason, Mr. President and Mr. Government should leave the universities alone, withdraw from the universities. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0089par0083	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. Congressmans, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the speeches are complete. Now we begin our speeches on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. The first statement belongs to Mr. Hasan Özyer. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Özyer, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0090par0090	Mr. President, dear MPs, at the beginning of my words, I ask for the mercy of our former Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaza and his wife Berna Yilmaz Yılmaz, who lost the life of Yavuz Yılmaz, and the mercy of the late Yavuz Yilmaz. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the budget of the European Ministry of the 2018 fiscal year, and I hereby salute the Grand Assembly. The Ministry of the European Union has implemented reforms from the youth and dynamic staff from the customs union to the fiscal co-operation, from union programmes to civil society dialogue -- a silent revolution in Turkey over the past 15 years -- and Turkey's face has changed with reforms. The Ministry of the European Union has made numerous reformal regulations, from food safety to waste management, energy efficiency to consumer rights, in line with Copenhagen's political and economic criteria and compliance with the European Union's acquisitor. The critical threshold has been breached by our steps and accession talks began in 2005. In accordance with the acquisitor, constitutional regulations, judicial reforms and legal changes by the EC PARTI governments have contributed greatly to our democracy and our country. Starting in 2002, the current stable growth environment and the economic policies of our people, which have been uncompromisingly implemented by our government, have increased the prosperity of our people and have been allowed to enter among the number of economies of our country's Europe. These are happy and successful results for our country and our nation. Turkey's final goal, however, is higher than these. Our goal, as Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk has pointed out, is the relative civilization level, which is, in today's terms, above Western norms. Democracy, rule of law, control mechanism and economic size are important to our country's integration with the West and the developed states. In terms of our future, investment, production and employment are among the most important factors. Capital savings, labour, employment growth and investments are vital to the growth of our economy. To accelerate structural reforms in the economy, to strengthen our real sector, to increase our competitiveness with global markets is one of our primary goals in the coming process. In this regard, the difficult process with the European Union recently has certainly not pushed us away from the norms of the European Union. Yes, the European Union applies double standards, does not act primitively, contradicts its values from time to time. Despite all this, our determination and determination to build our country above even the Copenhagen and Maastricht Criters. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have been subjected to attacks by international terrorist organizations such as our country, the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), the EPAH, the PYD, the YPG. These terrorist organizations have become a global threat. European Union countries need to play a more effective role in fighting terrorism. While our country has been fighting terrorist organizations for years, it has also succeeded in fulfilling its responsibilities in the European Union process. Unfortunately, we see that the European Union is not fulfilling its responsibilities. Our growing and developing country in all areas also contributes and increases its effectiveness to solving regional problems with its political and economic stability. A Turkey, which is a member of the European Union with its dynamic structure and its young population, will add considerable power to the Union and will increase its efficiency and power in all areas. Our country's membership in the European Union, the 17th largest economy in the world, will also contribute to the continuation of the union and to the economy of member states. With the European Union's immigration agreement, migrations have been blocked, once again seen how important our country is to the future and stability of Europe. Mr. President, the valued MPs are not only an economic or political project of the European Union, European integration is the most important social peace and civilization project of the 20th century. Turkey-European Union relations are undoubtedly going through a difficult time. However, our relationship with the European Union is based on a rich, political, economic, cultural and historically deep relationship that cannot be reduced to conjunctural crises. Turkey, which has played a role in the political, economic and cultural development of Europe throughout history, remains committed to the integration process. Although there are challenges in the process, our country has been overcome and is on its way.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0091par0101	I'll give you one more minute to finish your vows. Here you go, Mr. Özyer.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0090par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. Membership in the European Union is a strategic choice for us. This choice is based on the principle that both sides benefit. The progress of our relationship to produce new gains is also important for the peace, stability, and development of our region. Mr. President, the valued MPs will remain one of the priorities of the EC PARTY as long as the integration process serves our goal of a more democratic, more advanced and more respected Turkey. On this occasion, I wish the financial budget of our Ministry of the European Union for 2018 to be good for our country and our nation, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0092par0108	Thank you, Mr. Özyer. Now it's time for Mr. Leyla Şahin. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Master, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0093par0113	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the budget for central management in 2018, the Ministry of the European Union. I salute you all with respect and love. Turkey's policy priorities in nearby regions and environment basins are united by Turkey's European Union integration process. From this perspective, Turkey-European Union relations are important in softening global peace-threatening tensions, promoting global co-operation in areas such as international terrorism, global conflict, energy security. Turkey's membership in the European Union is considered a strategic goal. Our steps towards these goals have led to a new phase in Turkey's bid to join the European Union. Despite the unfair and baseless opposition of some European countries, we have taken the necessary steps towards full membership in the European Union, and we will continue to take them. The process of Turkey's membership in the European Union today from 2002 has made serious contributions to the establishment of democratic standards in our country, to the development of our trade relations, and also to sustainable developments. Full membership in Turkey's European Union is also strategic for the future of Europe. A Europe that said no to Turkey would be a Europe that fell behind the 21st century. By citing Turkey's population, geography or culture, opposition to our country's EU membership points to narrowing horizons and lack of vision. The rise of racism throughout Europe is also the result. When Europe manages to give up its double standards, it will avoid conflicting and conflicting the values of the European Union. We don't want a special status, we just want what we deserve. At this point today, we see that our country has left Europe behind at many points in terms of both economic and political democratisation and social life. Europe is on the agenda with its economic problems and antidemocratic practices. Important steps have been taken in the European Union's accession process during the EC PARTY administrations, which began in 1959. In 2002-2006, 1.3 billion euros from the European Union for the 166 projects implemented were provided with pre-accession grants, and the amount of grants for the 2007-2013 period increased to 4.7 billion euros. The pre-accession fiscal co-operation process is also under way during 2014-2020, with approximately 4.4 billion euros earmarked from the European Union for seven years. Civil society dialogue programmes provided a grant of around 42.5m euros for more than 350 euros in total. As part of the Jean Monnet scholarship, co-ordinated by our Ministry of the European Union, 2,000 scholarships were trained in Europe. Again, through our European Union Centre for Education and Youth Programmes, whose short name is the National Agency, about 120,000 projects have been applied from our country from 2004 to today, and over 900 million euros have been earmarked for more than 28,000 euros. Public institutions, NGOs, children, women have benefited from these grants. In fact, we've already made it possible for Europe without visas through these programs. Whether he knows language or not, students or not, all of our young people between the ages of 18 and 30 are benefiting from these programs. I would advise our young men to cooperate with the National Agency on this occasion. Through these projects, more than 450 thousand of our citizens have already benefited from programs, and have been able to participate in foreign education, internship, youth and volunteer activities. Turkey has received the highest application for projects from 33 programme member states, as part of the Erasmus+ Programme, with more than 10,000 project applications per year. I'd also like to briefly discuss the progress we've made with our reformer identity. Of course, the primary goal of reforms is to improve the welfare of our citizens living in this country. In this regard, we have cleared the way for individual appeals to the Constitutional Court. We've secured the personal data. With a constitutional amendment, we brought our women the principle of positive discrimination. We've established the Ministry of Family. We've established the Women's Men's Equivalency Commission. We founded the Roman Language and Culture Institute, protecting the rights of our Roma citizens. We've developed a dialogue with our fellow believers. By reforming the Foundations Act, we have prevented the seizure of our citizens of different religions, and we have opened the way for their confiscated property to be restored. Here's a little footnote: Unfortunately, there was an opposition to the Constitutional Court, which was fiercely opposed when this law was passed. But fortunately, it was also rejected by the Constitutional Court, and today this law, this reform, has been implemented. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, to complete...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0094par0126	I'll give you one more minute to finish your vows. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0093par0128	Thank you. The rural development programme opened the way for new investments, with 800m euros from Ipard (2007-2013) to 2007. Support investments of 800m euros, which continued to be used from 2014-2020, continue throughout Turkey. All of the reforms we've done in many other areas are based on the ideal of serving man and man, which, of course, is the ideal of serving this country. I want to talk about an example that we live on international platforms, and I want to finish it that way. I am one of the noble members of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly. During Turkey's withdrawal into the control process, we met as three parties in all talks and talks for Turkey and were able to act jointly for Turkey, except for one party. At this point, who is speaking against Turkey? Who voted against Turkey at every opportunity? Who's on the Council of Europe's General Assembly, making speeches against Turkey, supporting terrorist organizations? I'm not gonna tell you who these are. The Turkish people are smart, I'm sure, at this point, I offer their appreciation.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0095par0131	But you're not smart enough.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0093par0132	I salute the High Council and the Council with love. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0096par0135	Thank you, Master.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0097par0136	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0096par0137	Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0097par0138	Mr. orator in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has challenged us by making a statement that our party is required to vote in the same direction as their party.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0098par0139	I didn't name names, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0097par0140	According to the Civil Charter 69, without taunting...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0099par0141	Why are you offended?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0098par0142	I'm just trying to get the Turkish nation's intelligence...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0100par0143	You've been taken over, no names given.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0101par0144	Mr. Yıldırım didn't mention a political party name there, so I listened carefully.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0102par0145	Three parties, one party...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0101par0146	One second, sir. Over.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0103par0147	No, he did, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0104par0148	They've exposed themselves.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0101par0149	Mr. Furcier, your president is here. If you'd like your position, make a brief statement.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0105par0151	Mr. President, look, he put three parties in a different place...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0106par0152	He didn't name his name, he didn't name all three parties.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0105par0153	...and his next words continued in a way that made no sense, even a little moral, by taunting our party.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0107par0154	No name mentioned, you're being offended.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0105par0155	In that sense, our member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mr. Furkcu, would like to respond on behalf of our group without taunting.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0108par0156	All three parties have not been mentioned, nor have their own parties been mentioned. You're taking it very personally.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0109par0157	Mr. Furry, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0110par0158	Let's just say we don't have a name.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0111par0159	Why are we organized in separate places? Why do we have to think like you?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0109par0160	All right, fellas, Mr. Lightning, please. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0112par0164	Congressman, we have the mind you say is in the nation, and we understand what you're saying, so you deserve the answer. The first is the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe -- which I'm telling you for the third time -- that all parties who are members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are there to co-operate with parties who agree with them in the same direction. Your party is working with European conservatives, European People's Party, European liberals and Democrats; Republican People's Party are working with social Democrats, socialists; we are working with the European United Left. So we're not going to a national match there, in a place where all governments are controlled in the context of Europe, where their policies are discussed, where their policies are evaluated, what I'm saying to your face here is what I'm saying to your face. There's nothing to talk about here, but we went there to the national game, and we scored our own goal? We join the debate of human rights, democracy and law across Europe as we do here. I said it on other grounds, I don't know what comment the Minister might have said, but I agree with Omar Steel's statement that it's our home, as we live and talk about it here. You're living and talking about it there. You're basically here, talking to other people who don't talk there, you're out there, you're out there, you're in there, you're in the middle, you're in the middle, you're in the middle, you're in the middle, you're in the middle, you're in the middle, you're in the middle, you're in the middle, you're in the middle, you're in the middle, you're in the middle, you're in the middle, you're in the middle. It's a good thing you have a opposition like the People's Democratic Party, so take advantage of it, it'll do you good.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0109par0167	Thank you, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0113par0168	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0109par0169	Mr. Master, will you please stand up and make your request? Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0113par0171	Mr. President, he's been picking on me personally, and I'd like two minutes of your time.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0114par0172	I told the truth about what we picked on.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0109par0173	Just a minute from your position...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0113par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, the Council of Europe is not a place for a national match, not a place for a match, but a place where our national values and Turkey's reputations and interests are protected.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0115par0179	Is your reputation the same as that of Turkey?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0116par0180	You lower the reputation here, you discredit it here. Do all kinds of atrocities, then why don't you...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0117par0181	Please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0118par0182	This is for all countries. And as MPs of the Turkish Republic Assembly, we went to Europe and then came from Kurdistan. Who are those who say that? I won't say that either, and I'll leave it to the grand jury. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0119par0184	You're shitting me!
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0120par0185	Thank you, Mr. Master. 1) Ministry of the European Union's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2016 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) Ministry of National Education Central Management Budget for 2018 2) National Ministry of Education 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Death, Choosing and Responsibility Office [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for 2018 is the chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) Metric, Selection and Placement Centre Chairman 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The Board of Higher Education 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2016 Central Management Final Account Now, it's time for our İzmir MP, Mr. Kerem Ali Continuum. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Constant, your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0121par0211	Mr. President, I have made a commitment from the European Union institutions to the Turkish Accreditation Agency (TÜRKAK) budget of 2018. First, I salute the General Assembly. My condolences to our former Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz and the Yilmaz family. I pray for mercy from the late Yavuz Yilmab. Before I begin my speech, I have a thank you to Parliament. Not much mentioned, last week's agenda was busy, but this Parliament issued two declarations, which was very important. On December 6th, the United States of America issued a joint statement in the 33rd Union against its invalid decision concerning Jerusalem to become the capital of Israel. I thank all the groups, the AK PARTY Group, the Republican People's Party Group, the HDP Group, the MHP Group. Again, this Parliament issued a statement of support for the declarations adopted by the Islamic Co-operation Agency on December 13th. That's unity, being together. One, and together, we're going through this troubled phase in our geography. This is a thank you -- a debt on my part -- I declare it here. I have another thank you: I am the president of the Venezuelan Friendship Group. Really, I want to thank Venezuelan President Maduro, who's been driving there for 15 hours, making the most intense speech, making one of the most effective speeches and expressing his attitude here. It is truly admirable to have some states come here from Venezuela to respond to the weak reactions of Islam's countries while they remain silent. Yes, I also have a greeting or two about Jerusalem: Greetings to the 16-year-old Fevzi El Cünüdüdüdü, who attended protests against Jerusalem in Palestine. Again, greetings to Muhammad El Tavil, who has been taken into custody. Again, I go as a cripple and say hello to Abu Sorayya, who is a martyr in those demonstrations, and I ask the Lord God to bless this martyr. The Turkish Accreditation Agency is one of our institutions for the organisation of the technical field in the EU integration process, and was established in 1999 with Law 4457, aimed at improving quality infrastructure in our country, ensuring the credibility of products and services and boosting international trade. TÜRKAK, 1.472 fitness has so far been admissible to the evaluation agency. Our country's quality infrastructure is strengthened, its market is secure, quality products and services are spreading, providing international validity of the goods and services produced in our country. Accreditation is a quality infrastructure created by adaptability assessment agencies to support the credibility and validity of the study and the competence certification documents. This institution is a very useful institution, and it really is the custodian of international standards. And then there's the other side. Indeed, since 2004, this institution has been operating successfully on its own without gaining income from the treasury. Friends, by the end of November 2017, this institution has 37 million revenues, 22 million expenses. Again, this year, we've saved $17,560,000 in this budget, which won't be used, the institution is financing itself. The institution also provides services not only in Turkey, but also in our heart geography, which supports them. This institution also performs training activities as well as these activities. I thank this institution, and I wish you all the best. Friends, if you'll excuse me, tomorrow is World Across the World Day as an Avenger. On November 1st, I gave a speech here on the founding anniversary of the Versayan Sports Club, and there were some really positive reactions. So it was founded on November 1, 1912, and we celebrate December 19 as the Day of the Across World. From now on, my fellow citizens welcome from here, happy World Across the World Day, for the budget negotiations I can't be among you. And I'm going to put it this way, and the president is going to give me one more minute of this celebration, and I believe him: yes, we've talked about the Opposite Sports Club off the agenda, it's a very big club. This club is the founder of our republic...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0122par0226	Just say the word, say the word.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0121par0227	Mr. President, I'll be done in a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0123par0228	Mr. Constant, you didn't say 35.5, but I will if you say so. Will you?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0121par0229	If you give me my word, I promise.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0123par0230	Okay. I'll give you one more minute to finish your vows. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0124par0233	Mr. President, thank you. 35.5. Across the street is a very important sports club. The founder of our Republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, visited this sports club twice. During his last visit, after 1926, our club was given the authority to carry the moon-star slat in its jersey; it is one of the first clubs, and it is rare in Turkey. And I'll make it very clear from here, my fellow citizens, don't worry, the Opposite Sports Club won't fall, we'll be one, we'll be one, we'll be together, we'll continue our fight to the end. We're doing everything we can to get this company going, and I'm calling on everyone to support the Opposite Sports Club, and I say we keep this distinguished club going. I offer respect and love to my countrymen, and to the General Assembly, and to the nation that follows us.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0125par0239	Full support from Erzurum.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0126par0240	Full support.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0127par0241	Thank you, Mr. Constant. And we wish you the best of luck with the Versayaka Sports Club. 1) Ministry of the European Union's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2016 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) Ministry of National Education Central Management Budget for 2018 2) National Ministry of Education 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Death, Choosing and Responsibility Office [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for 2018 is the chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) Metric, Selection and Placement Centre Chairman 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The Board of Higher Education 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2016 Central Management Final Account Ladies and gentlemen, it is now up to our Elazıg MP, Mr. Dragon's Open. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Open Door, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0128par0270	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the National Education Ministry for 2018. When we came to power on November 3, 2002, our budget for the Ministry of National Education was $10 billion, 500 million, while in 2017, our budget was up to 122 billion, 414 million. Our national education budget for 2018 has increased again to $134 billion, 727 million, and has reached a new peak. Education is an essential element in the development of societies, in the development of countries. He cares about quality education and the equality of opportunity for everyone in education, and we want to say that he's one of our priorities. Since 2002, as an EC PARTY, we have significantly resolved basic infrastructure and access problems to ensure the right to education and teaching of our citizens on equal terms. Between 2003-2016, we built 269.596 new classrooms. In the 2002-2003 education year, 36 students in primary school and 31 in secondary school, 34 in general secondary school, 27 in vocational and technical secondary school, were reduced to 24 () in primary school in 2016-2017 and in secondary school, 22 (22) in secondary education, 22 (22) in general secondary education and technical secondary education in vocational and technical secondary education. Our goal, 2023, is to reduce our number of students per classroom in both primary school and secondary school to 20. In total, our 65,793 schools teach 1 million 61,989 teachers and 17 million 508,955 students. Since 2003, we have appointed 584,288 teachers. Of every three teachers currently serving, two have been appointed during our reign. Again, it is also remarkable and important that 66 percent of our teachers are under 40 years of age. Norm, there have been significant distances in staffing rates during our time in power. It is remarkable that in the Eastern Anatolian Region, 92.28 per cent of the population reached 90.35 per cent in the Southeastern Anatolian region, while in the country, the average number of norms reached 90.60 per cent. So in every part of our country, teacher norms have been drawn to each other. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before our powers, we have put an end to the suffering of our students and guardians to provide books. Together with our AK PARTI powers, from 2003 to 2017, we delivered 2 billion 680 million, 30,000, 389 books to our students for free, distributed them; in total, we paid $426 million,470,672. We pay $204.38 a month for 261.230 students in elementary school and secondary school. We value our disabled citizens. We spent 14 billion $552 million on our budget from 2006 to September 2017 so that they could benefit from education and rehabilitation services. As one of the most important jobs, we pray that our disabled brothers and sisters can benefit from home education. Mr. Minister, I ask for your help and support for the 2018-year programme of our communications upper secondary school, which does not respond to the needs of the teacher's home, the il national educational director's office, and the physical structure, which I have also expressed in the budget commission talks, and I wish our budget to be good.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0129par0277	Thank you, Mr. Open Door. Mr. Beştaş, you're in the system, sir. I'll take your request.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0130par0279	Mr. President, I have a request for a statement according to 60.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0129par0280	What's your request?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0130par0281	According to the Civil Charter of 60...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0129par0282	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0130par0285	Mr. President, I have received a very new answer when our Minister of National Education is here, which is the answer to the motion of a question, which is, frankly, we've asked them about textbooks to be studied in the 3rd and 4th grade, and there are many other references to marriage and family relations, girls, women's roles, rather than the Civil Law. Mehir is one of them. In addition, there are many suggestions that it is recommended that religion does not want to leave the family without leadership, that men are more advanced in power and strength, that the first degree of responsibility in the family is the male's, that the wife should be meticulous in her duties to her husband, that she should take care of her home and her children, but in response -- Mr. Minister of National Education -- why do I really demand that she elaborate on this when she is here -- why is the Civil Law not based on this? While the Mehir is being proposed, it is considered to be a concept that replaces title money? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wanted to ask you briefly, in the belief that all matters such as these should be cleared up.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0129par0288	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0131par0289	So, Mr. President, ask the question-answer part.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0129par0290	Congressman, please... 1) Ministry of the European Union's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2016 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) Ministry of National Education Central Management Budget for 2018 2) National Ministry of Education 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Death, Choosing and Responsibility Office [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for 2018 is the chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) Metric, Selection and Placement Centre Chairman 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The Board of Higher Education 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2016 Central Management Final Account Now it belongs to Mr. Ali Aydınlıoğlu, our Balıkesir MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Aydınlıoğlu, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0132par0315	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group on the budget of our National Ministry of Education for 2018. On this occasion, I salute you all. My condolences on the death of the precious son of Mesut Yilmaz, one of our former Prime Ministers. My dear friends, education is the precondition for scientific and technological development today. In 2018, like earlier years, the EC PARTY governments are also giving the largest share of our budget to national education in order to ensure qualified education. In the year 2018, we're describing our education as $134 billion. In this way, about 18 percent of our budget costs are single-handedly divided into education. In other words, in 2018, we will spend 22 percent of the tax income on education. Thus, 11 times higher in education since 2002. Over the past 15 years, we have not only expanded the budget, we have used the budget much more effectively and for the benefit of our people, and we have tried to give our nation's resources to our nation. Dear friends, in fact, these resources were not in Turkey. I'm afraid our nation's sweats with interest have been exhausted. As $86 of each $100 went to interest, investments could not be transferred very much. Thanks to the disciplined fiscal policies and strong government of the EC PARTY governments, right now only $11 of every $100 goes to interest. So we can make these investments very comfortable. We've earmarked about 3.4 billion, 380,000 disabled children, and about 2.6 billion for the scholarship and student loans used by 2 million students in 2018. After the classrooms closed, we tried to provide the support training our students needed as a government. In this framework, we're looking at 1.6 billion resources in the 2018 budget. Our student who went to the classrooms dropped to 15,000 when he was 4 million. We've removed tuition from our universities. 2,400,000 college students now receive university education without paying tuition. On behalf of these students, we will transfer $600 million from the state budget to our universities. As 18 million of our students started their studies this year, they had access to their textbooks free of charge. Again, we have earmarked 572 million dollars in our budget for this service in 2018. We've earmarked $1 billion in 2018 for the FATIH Project, which we started to expand technology use to improve quality in education. Dear friends, when our teachers, the most important element of our educational system, started in 2002, they were paid $635 in extra tuition, $423 in dollars, and in 2017, $3,600, or $940. Our number of teachers has grown significantly over the past 15 years. The number of teachers was 510,000 in 2002, with 544,000 new teachers appointed so far, reaching 902,000. Because of the increase in the number of teachers, the number of students per teacher in the 2002-2003 teaching year fell from 28 to 17 in primary school, from 18 to 13 in secondary school. In the classroom numbers, the number of classes of 243,000 in 2002 rose to 562, with 282,000 new classes in the last 15 years. With an increase in the number of students per class, the number of students dropped from 36 to 24 in primary school, from 30 to 23 in secondary school. Moreover, in many places, our schools have been transformed into educational campuses, equipped with technology, with smart boards, Internet connections, canteens, labs, libraries, single-person ranks, combined with the original and magnificent architecture of Seljuli, Ottoman and Republic. Remember, guys, our schools always had money to burn, managers collected paint money, our schools couldn't be heated? Thank God those days are so far behind. We believe we've brought them to a very good point. In terms of quality and quantity in education, we are ahead of many European countries. In short, education is getting better in Turkey, and we owe it to our teachers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I want an extension, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0133par0328	I'll give you one more minute to finish your vows, Mr. Aydınlıoğlu. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0132par0330	Thank you. In a study between OECD countries, who wants to become a teacher? The answer to the question is 25 percent to the top. My fellow lawmakers, we're rising to good levels of education. We have colleges in every province. With a change of students, we have thousands of students going to and from high-quality universities abroad. And there's a lot of grad students there who have their Ph.D.s. When they return to Turkey, they also provide a highly qualified education in both our universities and public institutions. Our well-trained young people are part of our national projects. Dear friends, from smart missiles to submarines, local satellites to domestic helicopters, local tanks, to the construction of our drones, our young people are working very successfully on these very important projects. With these feelings, I wish that our budget for 2018 National Education Ministry would be good for our country, our nation, our students and our parents. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0134par0337	Thank you, Mr. Aydınlıoğlu. Congressmans, in turn, it belongs to our Sinop MP, Mr. Nazim Mavis. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Blue, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0135par0342	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the National Ministry of Education budget. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. Of course, budgets are the text of the law, which lists many numbers, but budgets are not just numbers. There's an understanding behind the numbers and complex accounts that make up the budgets. Every budget has a philosophy, a vision of the future, an opinion, a concept. As we read the budgets, we need to focus more on philosophy, understanding, and perspective than on the numbers found in them. THE AK PARTY's ability to allocate the largest share of its budget to education is an indicator of philosophy that dominates the entire budget and the result of our faith in education. As a result of our determination to build the powerful and great Turkey, we always devote the largest share to education. We think that our most important wealth in social and economic development is our human resource. Therefore, the priority of EC PARTY rulings has always been investments in education. Dear friends, we know that despite all the work that he did, the famous Vizier Nizamülmülmülmül was remembered to the Medesses of Nizamiye, and the greater inheritance of the Conqueror than conquest was the Covenant of the Conqueror, and the greater work of the Law of Solomon, and of all its works, was the Medeses of Solomonia. That's why we believe that building the future has passed from building the education, from ignoring the school. From the day we came to power, we've always set four main goals in front of us as we've established our policy on education. The first was to improve quality in education. Thus, teachers' rights, the physical qualities of our schools, and all the changes we've made in the curriculum have been part of a story that has been focused on improving the quality of education. Again, as we formed our national education policies, our second primary goal was to ensure the equality of opportunity in access to education. Our third primary goal was to reduce the cost of education on our citizens. Our free handing out textbooks, closing classrooms, school courses, increased scholarships, tuitions, education supports have always been implemented as part of this goal. Our fourth and largest goal was to democratise the educational environment, providing a civilian and liberal education environment. Look, Althusser's ideological devices are one thing we all know, schools have always wanted to be used as a means of raising one kind of people, but we've tried to make our schools, which have been seen as a means of raising one type of human beings from 2002 so far, the center of free thinking. We wiped off the trail of February 28th. We allowed teachers who couldn't get into their schools with their headscarfs, their headscarfs, their schools, and their students with their headscarfs. We've eliminated the tyranny of coefficients in vocational high schools. However, we have cleared all antidemocratic elements in the curriculum, and put human rights, law and justice in the curriculum. On the other hand, the Ministry of National Education had actually become one of our important institutions, which was aimed at collecting human resources and producing resources. The battle against the classrooms began before December 17th-25th and was successfully carried out in the Ministry of National Education. We need to assess the closing process of the classrooms, the steps taken on auxiliary resources, the study of private schools, and the legal arrangements we've made regarding the Maarif Foundation. In this regard, when we evaluate the work we've done in the 15 years of government process, of course the opposition will criticize them from its perspective, and today it's normal for it to criticize them because education has been a critical area since we started, but we see all of these criticism as a source, a support for the development of education policies, and we walk to the future with the perspective that we get from here. There's one thing to remember, life is dynamic, every day we face new things, and change stands before us as an inevitable truth. So, in life that's so dynamic, at a time like this, when everything is going through a process of rapid change, we need to evaluate the change in education policies in this framework. To build the future, to build a new Turkey, to build tomorrow's Turkey, we have been constantly seeking innovation in education, and the policies we've established need to be regarded as the result of this regeneration tool.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0136par0353	I'll give you one more minute to finish your vows. Here you go, Mr. Blue.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0135par0355	Mr. President, when we look at all the policies that we've established during our 15-year mandate, everything is going well, under control, well, well, it's going well, and there's no cause for concern for our countrymen, our citizens. We know what we're doing, we're walking decisively, firmly into the future. He wishes that our national education budget of 2018 is blessed with these feelings and ideas, congratulating the ministry's bureaucracy and all of our educational staff, especially our Minister of National Education, who has worked in this budget, and greeting all of our teachers and educators with respect and love, I wish you all a good day.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0136par0358	Thank you, Mr. Blue. Now it's time for Mr. Mehmet Akif Yilmaz. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Yilmaz, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0137par0363	Thank you. Mr. President, I salute the esteemed MPs, our beloved nation and our Veteran Assembly. It has not been a month since the 24th November Day of Teachers, when we were shaken by a painful news from Izmir, the educational community. My condolences and my condolences to Ayhan Kokmen, our director who died in this foul attack, and to his family, and to our educational community. This tragic event and the occasional pressure and violence of parents and parents in our schools have put a serious pressure on our teachers and lowering their motivations. We have to protect the reputation of the teaching profession by making our children feel that we trust our training staff as political, community and guardians. On this occasion, I would like to thank our Minister of National Education and his team, who carried out the Teacher's Strategy Document in 2017-2023 to improve perception of the teaching profession, strengthen the status of the profession, and improve the working conditions. Dear lawmakers, our general budget, which was 98 billion in 2002, reached 762 billion in 2018, and the budget for education, which was 10 billion in 2002, reached 134 billion in 2018. This figure and real table clearly tells us that even though someone resorts to the arrogance of tearing up the nation's budget with the ambition of not being able to rule, Turkey is growing in all areas, especially education, despite all the internal and external obstacles that our nation has been waiting for, it continues with determination and hope to do so. Dear lawmakers, the mindset that tried to tear up the budget of the nation, which is the epiphany of our beloved nation's will for development, is essentially a mind that is afraid of the will and the will of the nation, which does not respect the will and values of the nation today.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0138par0370	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0137par0371	Not in the polls, but in the coup and custody regime, this sick understanding, which believes that the coup was a legitimate right when the conditions matured, has hit our economic development, our qualified human resources for many years. Not only did we get our economy, but we got the worst hits of the Republic of Turkey's state from this mentality that ripped up the nation's budget.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0139par0372	Guys, what's the budget?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0137par0373	The harshest blow of this understanding, which called for foreign intervention, which complained about his country abroad, was also on the Palestinian issue in the past. It is this mindset that, one year after the so-called establishment of Israel in 1948, the occupying state of terror, which has been thrust into the heart of Islamic geography as a dagger, turning the Middle East into a pool of blood for many years, and finally eyeing our haremnamus, the Islamic state of terror, which first recognized Israel's terrorist state in 1949 and legitimised its debacle to this nation.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0140par0374	Who sold the blue marmara for $20 million? Those of you who sold the blue Marmara for 20 million dollars, tell me that you're willing to sell our nine people for 20 million dollars...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0137par0375	Yes, the date 1949 was the decision of the Council of Ministers of the Republican People's Party, which decided that Israel would be recognized immediately. Signed: President Ismet Inönu, Prime Minister Şemsettin Günaltay and ministers. We will never allow Mustafa Kemal Ataturk to form an illegal state of Israel. Despite his statement, a Council of Ministers decision is a decision that gives Israel life water. In the conscience of our beloved nation, this occupation and terror state, representing the fact that Israel was never recognized, is actually necessary to tear up this decision, this document of shame in front of our nation, but it's not appropriate for us and it's not appropriate for us. Our wish is to be able to throw this document of shame into the wastebasket of history, by reaching the will to end this bloody occupation on the land of Palestine, in the hand of Hazreti Omarin, Salahaddin Ayyubi, Sultan Abdulhamit. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] From here, I salute the Palestinian people and their struggle to resist the invasion. I pray that our budget of 2018 will be blessed and blessed by my Lord.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0141par0381	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0142par0382	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0141par0383	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0142par0384	Mr. orator made a series of accusations in his speech, using the budgetary reflex of a member of our party speaking on behalf of our party a few days ago, using its budgetary reflex to call on our party to intervene in foreign forces, leaving the Palestinian people alone in Palestinian politics, and accusing us of being a diseased structure. That's what I figured. No, I didn't say that. I won't ask for a lecture, but if I don't, I demand a promise.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0143par0385	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0144par0386	He is the son of Sevki Yilmaz. He knows something he knows!
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0145par0387	Mr. Yilmaz, please stand up and deliver your request.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0143par0388	Mr. President, I've criticised the notion that the nation's budget is falling apart here in the past. No matter who takes it personally.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0146par0389	I'm offended, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0145par0390	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0146par0393	I don't know which one to fix in two minutes or which one to answer, but I'll tell you a thing or two. I've told you before, once again, get rid of your prejudices and your paranoia. We won't allow your party's president to pull any focus other than Turkey, we'll eat it in the chest, I've said it before, I repeat, rest assured.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0147par0395	It'll fit in your stomach.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0146par0396	But I do wish that these plots over Turkey, these scenarios... that the president of your party... should not consolidate international issues, national cases, into the material of domestic politics to consolidate a certain electorate, that I desire, not my will, but the will of 80 million people. I want to underline that, get rid of this paranoia. Yes, there's a danger to Turkey, I'm telling you from here, there's a danger to Turkey, there's a great danger. As long as you make international issues, national cases, domestic policy materials -- I told you here in the Ministry of Interior budget the other day -- as long as you mix the government with the government and the government, you serve this nation, as long as you use it as a shield against the opposition and those who are not from the ruling party, as a tool, as long as you use it as a tool, you serve the understanding of dividing this country in people's heads, and then in fact, the desire. Once again, I've said a lot of times about this, the government is all of us. The AK PARTY is not responsible for the support of this state, it is responsible for 550 MPs in parliament. Don't worry, it's always been like this with the President and the Government and whoever's got a script against the government in the middle, whoever's got a villainy, whoever's done it before you, it's always been like this, and it'll be like this. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As for tearing up the budget, I wish people had a budget, not a budget. We've grown 11 percent. You can say, congratulations, government. That's 11 percent for the workers, the officer, the small tradesman, the student scholarships, and we'll give you a round of applause. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0148par0402	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0149par0403	Mr. President, for the record...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0148par0404	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0150par0405	Is that an answer too? I want to know where I am.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0149par0406	Mr. Engin Altay congratulated me so much that I couldn't tell if he was congratulating me or boiling me. Congratulations, isn't it, Mr. Altay?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0150par0408	Go ahead, finish up.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0149par0409	Second: The line he puts out is that Turkey's competition for domestic politics is going to be inside, and in national issues, the line where we need to stand on a common line is undoubtedly our line, and there is no problem in that regard. But I made a commitment to go on record that we did not participate in any assessments of how to exploit some of the outside developments in domestic politics. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0151par0411	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0152par0413	Now, he actually picked on me.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0153par0414	I didn't.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0152par0415	He teased me, saying that he didn't understand the nature of a word I said, that I was a person who couldn't express my meaning. Anyway, I don't want to respond to this bullying, but I want to say, yes, what I'm saying is, is the official growth rate 11 percent? 11%. Congratulations to the government. Now that we've grown up, we're just saying that we don't want some of the community to get their share of this cake, it's worth 80 million. Are we saying it badly? That was my honor, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0154par0416	Thank you, Mr. Altay. 1) Ministry of the European Union's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2016 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) Ministry of National Education Central Management Budget for 2018 2) National Ministry of Education 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Death, Choosing and Responsibility Office [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for 2018 is the chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) Metric, Selection and Placement Centre Chairman 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The Board of Higher Education 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2016 Central Management Final Account Ladies and gentlemen, it is now up to our Karabuk MP, Mr. Burhanettin Uysal. Mr. Easy, here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0155par0442	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group over the budgetary budgetary bill of 2018, on the budget of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement. I salute your high council. Education is the most important element of development in every field. A society that doesn't use human capital effectively is doomed to lose its competitive chances. Weaknesses in the field of education cannot be overcome by the superiority of any field. In response, reaching the higher levels of education increases the overall quality of all other areas. As the EC PARTI ruling, we are aware that Turkey's 21st century goals can only be achieved through education. This year, we've spent the most money on education. Turkey's greatest strength in its struggle to gain its rightful place among the world's states is, of course, the young population. We hold the education of our young people who will lead our nation to the future more important than anything else. You build a building, you build a factory, you invest in stone, you have a life span, 30 years, 40 years, 50 years, but if you invest in people, it becomes a continuum passed down from generation to generation, you form strong and lasting bonds between the past and the future. In this context, one of our major educational institutions is the chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement. ==Early life==The NGO was founded on November 19, 1974, and was renamed the president of the OSCE, which was established on November 19, 1974, in 1981 and was transformed into a private government institution with administrative and financial autonomy under the regulation of 2011. The 2018 budget of the PSS presidency has been raised to 537,550,000 Turkish liras. The bloody and treacherous face we saw on July 15th, unfortunately, was also involved in the dirty schemes carried out by the OSD. Now, in order to investigate these, the OSCE President has established the Watch and Evaluation Unit, and this unit has been doing a deep analysis of all the exams of the last decade, and is filing criminal charges in case an unusual situation is detected. The judiciary for the fraud and irregularities of this organization in the past is in effect. Indiscriminately, the people who have settled in education and public institutions and those responsible will be punished with the most severe punishment. Currently, the OSD has been renewed by legal regulations from employees to technical infrastructure and continues to be renewed. The OSCE conducts its services within the framework of e-government standards, starting with no questions being prepared, constantly renewing itself by taking advantage of rapidly developing scientific and technological innovations. A number of tests have been conducted with the hands of 176 test coordinators, taking applications from 1,469 application centers. In 2017, 40 different tests would have been conducted by some 8 million candidates. So far, only electronic exams are being conducted on the foreign language test, and after that, the examinations are scheduled to be carried out as an electronic test, according to requests from public institutions. You note that there are good procedures in the presidency of the SEC, and I salute the High Assembly, and I wish that the 2018 budget be blessed and fruitful for our country.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0156par0449	Mr. Soft, thank you. We'll have another thank-you as the Court of Presidents. Congressmans, from the day I was acting Speaker of Parliament to this day, all the orator friends I've called to the stand, without any party distinction, I've invited them to be called our MP. As Mr. Ujsal began his words, Mr. President said, not Mr. President, Mr. President. I would like to thank Mr. Niceman once again in your presence. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] In turn, it belongs to Mr. Enver Fehmioğlu, our Bingol MP. Mr. Fehmioğlu, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0157par0456	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the President of the Center for Measurement, Selection and Placement of the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018. I salute your high council. By the way, my condolences to Mr. Mesut Yilmaz, and to his family from our former Prime Minister who lost his son. Good God, son, don't let anyone see your pain. Deliberate MPs, the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement, were established on 3 March 2011 to place those who were successful in applying for higher education programmes in order to place them in the grade order, and to become a private budgetary public institution with the institution, administrative and financial autonomy of the Office of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement. With 40 years of experience, the institution, which operates all its services under e-government standards, is constantly renovating itself by taking advantage of rapidly developing scientific and technological innovations. At the beginning, the president, who was only obliged to test and place students in universities, is doing very important services using new methods and technologies at the coming point. In addition to pre-license, licensing and grad school exams, he has also made major innovations in carrying out occupational, promotion, selection of academic staff and similar vocational examination services, which are requested by public institutions and institutions and private legal persons. It is one of the things that is common about the application of electronic examinations. In addition to Izmir and Istanbul, the Esenboğa E-Sunav Centre, which opened the new service in Ankara, was one of the largest testing centres in the world, with 5,000 candidates able to take an electronic test at the same time. So far, electronic examinations (e-DUS) are included only in the foreign language exam (e-DUS) or electronic expertise in dental medicine. In accordance with demands from public institutions, some written tests are also scheduled to be carried out as an electronic test from 2018. Mr. President, it has been decided that as of 2018, additional deadlines will be given to candidates who have seen less than 25 per cent of eye disease and vision and whose report has been delivered to the OSYM. According to this, less than 60 questions will include 20 minutes, 60 and more questions, and 30 extra minutes in the examinations. Again, from 2018 onwards, examination halls will be created for disabled candidates with health problems and special conditions as part of the decision to be everywhere. This service is still implemented in only 14 provinces, and it is intended to be published from the beginning of 2018, and presented in all our provinces by the end of the year. The candidates who have been applying late by the OSCE have been granted the right to take the examination, not just in Ankara, but in any province they want. A new three-month waiting period for candidates to take the Electronic Foreign Language Test has also been lifted. One important thing I would like to point out about the central exams of the CSI is that it is not right to criticize wrong practices based on the human element during the examinations by adding it to the system and the institution. In order to eliminate these situations, the presidency continues to work with a more reliable, more targeted effort to address all possible setbacks. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, may I have an extension?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0158par0464	I'll give you one more minute to finish your vows. Here you go, Mr. Fehmioglu.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0157par0466	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers are possible by measuring a more scientific, more technological, more successful, full education and using accurate, reliable techniques in selection. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation, wishing the institution's budget of $537 million, 550,000, to be well-placed, to be well-placed, and to all who will receive services.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0159par0470	Thank you, Mr. Fehmioğlu. Now it's time for Mr. Yasin Aktay, our Siirt MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Aktay, your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0160par0475	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of the Board of Higher Education in 2018. I salute our High Council and our nation with respect and conversation. Turkey is an extremely dynamic country that has moved more than 50 per cent of its population from the country to the city in a short period of time compared to the functioning of the reciprocal process in European countries, which began in 1950. Of course, in the meantime, it's nearly three to four times its population, and we have a population of almost 20 million to 80 million. Turkey's sociological dynamic also led to strong demands. Of course, weak governments are overwhelmed by these demands. He thinks he's managing to avoid these demands, delay them, even ignore them. So, if it weren't for these students, the ease of managing national education, or if it weren't for this country-to-city migration, if it weren't for the pleasure or illness of the director of these cities, we'd see that they'd be pouring out very serious, very interesting nostalgia over the joy of taking over this health administration. Powerful governments, ambitious governments, on the other hand, consider it an opportunity, an opportunity to govern by meeting these demands, even to improve the country. Turkey's urbanized population naturally brought growth relative to industrial and service sectors, which inevitably increased and increased the need for higher education. Sadly, those who ruled Turkey for some time chose to deal with this social demand by restricting access to colleges, rather than responding to that need for years. By 2002, only 150,000 of our more than 1.5 million young people who asked for higher education from the state each year were offered this opportunity, and the rest of you were told to do whatever it was you were supposed to do. Do we not remember those days? In fact, the restrictions imposed on college admissions were not limited only by the measure of success, but by the ban on headscarves and coefficient practices, our young people were kept away from our universities, which were considered a gateway to enlightenment. In fact, in another way, it was an expression that the colleges had given up hope of their enlightening mission, which was actually throwing in the towel. Even though universities were considered institutions of enlightenment all over the world, in our country there was no such hope of colleges. Another limitation was that our universities had a student admission that was far below their capacity. With millions of young people waiting outside, it was really impossible to understand how the doors were closed, rather than giving them the opportunity to train. WHEN the EC PARTY came to power, it was a mission and a policy to offer the opportunity of higher education to every young person who wanted it. With recent new teaching institutions and upgraded quotas, this great goal has been largely achieved today. In all education, today we have removed the so-called equal of opportunity from education and returned it to its core. It is the duty of a state that believes in the equality of opportunity to grant the right to education. The AK PARTY governments have believed and fulfilled this equality, not in words, but in essence. In this framework, we have also transformed universities into an opportunity to develop economic, social, and urban development -- the story of the 15-year miracle of development. The universities that exist in each of our provinces today perform their functions as an important element of our perspective on development and development for our cities. In 2002, we reached only 76 universities today to 186. In the meantime, it is not a university by wearing a tabela. While reminding that reviews were made for all of our universities in the past -- even for ODTU -- we see that all of our newly opened universities are quickly beginning to capture the minimum level of world universities. In 2002, the total number of students reached 1,900,000, which is now 7,200,000, so the net schooling rate in higher education has increased from 14.65 per cent to 43.43 per cent. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] By the way, Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0161par0484	Mr. Aktay, I'll give you one more minute to complete your vows. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0160par0486	I didn't say Mr. President, so you could extend my time. You deserve respect by sitting in that position, of course. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0161par0488	All together.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0160par0489	In the meantime, the proportion of girls' studies in higher education has increased from 42 per cent to 46 per cent. Now, Mr. Engin came here and said, "Where is this 11 percent?" A development or growth that doesn't reflect on the unemployed, the workers, the villagers. Look, the college rate went from 14.65 per cent to 43.43 per cent. Who's studying here? Our worker's child reads, our peasant's child reads, our people's children read here. Because we've established a level where anyone who wanted to go to colleges today that people who used to have some financial problems can't get into, that any one of our people's children can easily get that opportunity. You should be proud of this, and I don't know, how else can we explain this? In fact, we consider universityisation to be one of the indicators of the democratisation of a country in many indexes because high education is the most important channel for people to get involved in the process of governance in some way. My respects.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0162par0494	Thank you, Mr. Aktay.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0163par0495	Mr. President, I'd like to make a brief statement, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0162par0496	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0164par0497	I wasn't teasing you, I was just explaining.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0163par0498	It's a short explanation. I said it.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0162par0499	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0163par0502	Because of the 11 percent of our MP's growth workers, farmers, peasants, small-incomers, pensioners, widows, orphans, my brother. He said, "Look, the number of girls going to college has increased." I compared this analogy to this one, and I made a promise to him: I believe that we have spent $30 billion on the President or Prime Minister of Syria. Where have you spent it, give it to us and our beloved nation. When we said, "Mr. Vice Prime Minister, isn't Syria going our way?" he said. That analogy looks just like him. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0162par0504	Thank you, Mr. Altay. 1) Ministry of the European Union's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2016 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) Ministry of National Education Central Management Budget for 2018 2) National Ministry of Education 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Death, Choosing and Responsibility Office [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for 2018 is the chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) Metric, Selection and Placement Centre Chairman 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The Board of Higher Education 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2016 Central Management Final Account Ladies and gentlemen, it is now up to Mr. Halil Etamamez, our Koniya MP. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You can't, you've got five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0165par0530	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Council of Higher Education budget. On behalf of my group, I salute the Veteran Assembly and our great nation. Dear lawmakers, education in EC PARTY governments is always a priority. In 2023, led by our President and President Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we are making a major revolution in quantity and quality in our universities to achieve the goal of 10 major economies in the world. We are working hard to ensure that our universities will have quality education and teaching institutions that produce information, develop qualified human resources, develop human and social capital as part of the quality quality of our universities, and improve student qualifications. Dear lawmakers, as EC PARTI authorities, we have increased the budget opportunities of our universities in 15 years, increased the scholarships and loans of our students, making serious improvements to the financial, social and autonomy rights of all university personnel, particularly the faculty. We increased the SEC budget, which was 3 billion in 2002, 11.4 times to $37 billion. In 2002, the total number of universities totalled 76 have increased to 184. We have 157,000 professors at these universities. Turkey is the most educated country in Europe, with 7 million 800,000 students, 123,000 of whom are international students. Dear lawmakers, many of our universities are among the best 500 universities in the world in certain areas. Hopefully, with this pace of our government and the CEC, our goal is to ensure that we have universities in the world not in the first 500, but in the first 100. As you know, we've identified 10 universities this year as research universities. Why are research universities so important? Because there is a rapid change and development in the world. Our universities need to be transformed into institutions capable of adapting to this rapid change and development, providing their graduates with the qualifications of the age, providing qualified jobs to sectors, managing the age. The universities were only in our lives as teaching institutions, but today universities have become educational institutions that co-ordinated with studies and studies and research development. We're working beyond that to give our nation a better quality of life and to increase its prosperity, to build innovative, research development, international cooperation, qualified human resources, digital literacy, social learning, fourth-generation universities with digital pedagogy. Industrial 4.0 is the most important priority we have to raise a labor force that can produce ideas of its own, which can govern the digital and qualified age. Dear lawmakers, as EC PARTY, we have always sided with our college students and increased the scholarships and student loans, which were 45 lira a month in 2002, to $970 lira for graduate students, to $1.410 for PhD students. In 2002, our institution of loans and housing provides loans and scholarships to only 450,000 students, and we grant scholarships to nearly 1.5 million students today. We discriminate positively against students who are under the protection of the state, whose parents and children are deceased. This student, whom we do not receive a dorm fee, pays $630 a month for feeding our brothers. Dear lawmakers, in 2002 we had 727 homes serving at five-star hotel comforts, while there were 190 dorms serving in barracks of 8-10, broken iron bunks, without social utensils. By increasing the number of beds from 182,000 to 601,000, we have offered our young people the value and resources they deserve, and we will continue to offer them. Dear lawmakers, as the EC PARTY, we care deeply about academic and scientific freedom, and support the free production of scientific production in the fields of academia, which is guaranteed by us. In this context, we've removed a lot of antidemocratic practices, including coefficient injustice and the ban on the headscarf, which are the remains of the custody period. But we would never tolerate teachers to provide psychological and logistical support to terrorist groups, to mentor terrorists, and we would never allow that. We don't allow our universities to become an organizational zone for terrorist groups. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0166par0540	I'll give you one more minute to finish your vows. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0165par0542	Yes, we don't allow our universities to become an organisational area for terrorist groups, we take all necessary legal and security measures, and no one will be offended by these measures. Dear lawmakers, as an EC PARTY, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not a party that design politics based on momentary developments. Under the leadership of our leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan, I say that we are part of a case that aims at the 2023s, the 2053s, the 2071s, and again has the words and actions of the great Turkey, which is in love with the nation and the entire state, and we are working with this consciousness. I wish our budget to bring blessings, to greet you again, to offer you my conversations.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0167par0546	Thank you, Mr. Meatball. On behalf of the group, our last speaker, Isparta MP, Mr. Sait Yüce. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your Highness, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0168par0551	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the university budget of the Financial Budget Bill of 2018. I salute the Veteran Assembly. Our Turkey has made significant improvements in its region and global scale, like a shining star in recent years. Given our goal to become one of the world's 10 major economies, it can only be achieved with quality and high-profile information production and qualified human resources. In particular, in 2003-2014, there have been significant digital developments in this regard. As of today, we have a total of 184 institutes of higher education, including 112. This number of students has become the country with the largest number of students in the European area of higher education. The next phase of this growth process in our higher education system over the past ten years will also be growth in terms of perfect, quality and arbitraryness. In this framework, the project on mission differentiation of the higher education quality board has been implemented, describing it as an important step towards the creation of the competitive environment in our higher education system. While our universities are implementing general, universal science methods, they should also take part in their curriculum and programs at the point of caring, improving, and sustaining our domestic and national elements. Of course, in the upbringing of children and young people, from kindergarten to college, it is our priority to raise generations of our most advanced and spiritual values in science. Humanity needs even more moral values as much as it needs scientific and technological advances. Today, safety is mankind's biggest problem. Prescription and medicine are spiritual, moral values to prevent terrorism, injustice, injustice, conflicts, and negativity caused by non-profits. The results of a educational system that lacks them are also visible in the world. The formulas and systems that are only material, satisfying the mind and the body do not affect the heart and the soul. Unfortunately, in today's world, hedonism, instead of power, virtue, and virtue, instead of cooperation, instead of the struggle, the unity of the country and the values, instead of racism, great feelings, and high qualities, dominates hedonism and pleasure. The formulas that bring peace to humanity are very much present in our faith and wisdom roots, where the strong one is not right, but the righteous one is strong; a civilization based on virtue and cooperation rather than interest. Here, along with all kinds of scientific experience and studies, our universities, the light of the mind, the science of the science of the science of the conscience, the zenith of the mind, should have the truth of religion -- not one wing, but two-winged birds, lead to the development of our country, our people, and our civilization. We also want some of our universities to vary in education, some in research and technology production, and some in contributing to regional development. The project's first step has been taken, five pilot universities have been determined to increase its contribution to the area they are in, as well as to encourage universities to major in specific areas and to ensure diversity in higher education. According to this, Bingöl University, in the area of agriculture and basin-based development, Burdur Mehmet Akif Ersoy University, in the field of animalism, in the field of health and environment at Düzce University, in the field of agriculture and geothermal at Kırşehir Ahi Evran University, in the area of textiles, dermatism and ceramics; Ankara University, Boğaziçi University, Ercies University, Gazi University, Gebze Technical University, Hacette University, İstanbul Technical University, İzmir University, İzmir High Technology University, and Middle East Technical University. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My last word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0169par0559	I'll give you one more minute to finish your vows. Here you go, Your Highness.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0168par0561	In the belief that our institutes of higher education will be more quality and genuine science-producing institutions in the future, I wish you all the best of our budget while thanking our minister and his team, our president and his staff, and the valued directors of all universities.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit03spe0169par0563	Thank you, Your Highness. Congressmans, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the speeches are complete. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0169par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, it belongs to our Istanbul MP, Mr. Arzu Erdem. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time, Your Grace, is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0170par0009	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, I salute the saintly Turkish nation who watches us on the screen. I have made a pledge on behalf of my Nationalist Movement Party Group on the budgets of the Central Centre Management Act of 2018 and the European Union's Ministry of Computation Law on the European Union, on the budgets of the Turkish Accreditation Institution. I salute the General Assembly. Yes, this is about the European Union. When we call it the European Union, we're talking about a long period of time that dates back from my age and maybe longer than the age of a significant portion of my fellow lawmakers here, a long journey. After a little bit of history, I'd like to get to the point where we're last. When looked at the starting point of the European Union, it can be accepted that there were years following World War II. These are a period when the idea that a unity must be created in Europe so that suffering will never happen again is especially awakened in the nations and rulers of the continents. Europe's countries, which emerged from World War II, have been devastated and exhausted, are particularly seeking a new political and economic model. This quest was only a search for unity, especially because it came to a time when they were powerless. With the idea that the U.S. capital, which flows to Europe under the name Marshall's help, would become dependent on the United States, with a little bit of that anxiety, the small and weak Western European countries wanted to create a new European capital market. That's how the European market was created. In the future, the countries who agreed to this proposal agreed not to use the war industry against each other -- especially not to fight each other. As a result, Germany, Belgium, Italy, Luxembourg and the Netherlands responded to France's call. The agreement between the six countries established the European Coal and Steel Society on April 18, 1951 was signed in Paris. This is actually, at the same time, the day the first European Union was born. Then, on January 1, 1958, in 1991, the European Single Syndicate- 1991, in Maastricht, the Netherlands, the founding agreements on the European communities in Maastricht, particularly the amendment agreements, and the adoption of this agreement in 1993. The EU Summit in Copenhagen, the capital of Denmark on 21-22 June 1993, the Treaty of Amsterdam on 16 June 17 June 1997, the Treaty of Nice on 7 December 2000, the Treaty of Lisbon on 18 October 19 October 2007, especially among the European Union themselves, the European Union, and its member states. Turkey stepped into the European Union integration process in 1963 when it signed the European Economic Community Association Agreement. In 1987, the application for full membership took place. After the full application for membership, in 1999, our country, Turkey, in particular, was shown and approved by member states of the European Union as a candidate country. So the adventure we're talking about is a fifty-four-year-old adventure. So, what did we experience on this adventure? In particular, what were the Turkish nation's expectations? What were our financial expectations? Did we or did we not get what we wanted from the European Union? I'd like to make a general assessment of these as well. In this period, the member states of the European Union have constantly judged our country within the accession talks, and at the point of meeting these criteria, especially at the point of meeting -- we've seen them -- in order to show their finger in line with our country. Of course, a union agreement must have a response to a union, there are steps that need to be taken, that our Ministry has taken important steps in this matter. As a breaking point for this, the visa liberalisation and re-enactment agreement, which was granted to our country by the European Union on 4 May 2016, was a recommendation. We'll all remember that day very well. It was specifically said on that day that the country, which had fulfilled 67 criteria from 72 criteria, was given by the end of the year on the 5 criteria, until the end of 2016, and it was said: "When you have fulfilled it by that date, we will deal with the acceptance agreement. We can also see that they are taking these steps specifically to protect themselves from it because it is a serious Syrian refugee crisis. At that time, the European Union Commission made recommendations for visas for Turkish citizens on travel to Schengen countries, making it the first step towards visa-free European travel. Turkey, which fulfilled 67 of the 72 criteria, had to complete five more criteria. The European Union Commission has made a recommendation for Turkish citizens that visas should be lifted by the end of June at the latest, if the remaining conditions are met. The third report by the European Union Commission said Turkey has fulfilled 67 of the 72 criteria for visa liberalisation, adding its recommendations. The visa exemption required approval from European Union member states and the European Union Parliament. European Commission Vice President Frans Timmermans announced the decision. He also stressed that Turks cannot enter Europe without a biometric passport. Which is the five criteria left over by the end of the year, and it's useful to remind you again. 1) The release of biometric passports for every citizen. 2) The re-enactment of the re-enactment agreement on June 1st. This is a critical point because the re-enactment agreement was actually an agreement that allowed the European Union countries to protect themselves from the refugee crisis, and it was an effort to use our country as a buffer zone. 3) The strengthening of freedom of the press. 4) Fighting bribes. 5) Information Security. They specifically wanted to be softened by their commitment to the five criteria, our commitment to fight terrorism effectively, and at the point of freedom of the press, they wanted them to get to the criteria they wanted. Of the 28 members, 16 would have been approved, but the total population of the countries who voted to accept had to form 65 per cent of the European Union's population, so it was actually a decision that seemed almost impossible. Of course, after the night of the July 15 traitorous coup attempt and the night of the coup attempt, it was a sign that the European Union, its member states, our friends, really live in the millions of citizens of our own country, the Turks, not visiting us for a month, but especially related to the treacherous coup attempt that they shared and supported us, were actually trying to stay away from us, and how much, in order to protect their own country, they were in the account. The re-enactment agreement was signed anyway. The re-enactment agreement was very important to them. As they did not fulfill their commitments to asylum seekers in particular, they actually interrupted the process, and in that sense, they misled us again in an important part of this fifty-four-year journey. What happened? After the coup attempt, they said that we were exhibiting antidemocratic attitudes about our country, particularly that the process of the state of emergency should be terminated. When they arrived, especially when we held meetings in the commissions, the committees said, "Are you in charge of the decrees that you gave us, which you took out?" When they said these things, we specifically stressed in our meetings with our members of the group, the fact that in their own country, in the slightest terrorist attack, the third-degree security measures and the state of emergency were not understood, and we explained this to them. Besides, of course, our attitude and attitude as the National Movement Party Group regarding the European Union is clear. It's about the European Union, isn't it necessary? It's not. If so, the struggles have been fought, the studies have been done so far, and we should also point out that we have no conditions to become members of the European Union, or an internal structure or a structure for different places, about economic development, are sustainable. Dear lawmakers, when we call it a budget, I think of things that our nation is especially looking forward to, and I would like to point out that every penny of service for our nation, for every one of them, is as lawful as their mother's white milk. Here, our women have problems, and I want to make a very brief transition about them: each of us here, when we're elected MPs, sitting in these seats, we've all taken an oath that we're sitting at the expense of our nation, especially their troubles, to worry about their problems, and we've all taken a vow to serve the Turkish nation. In this sense, in a country where about 50 percent of our population are women, I think we should pay attention to what needs to be done to strengthen women. Disproportionate participation reduces the power of countries, so we need to know that if women are given disproportionate power, it will prevent the power in front of the country in particular. Therefore, the demands for our women come to all of you, that these demands be evaluated by our side, especially during the new legislature, and their demands must be met. We will, of course, protect the state budget, keep the balances, but while we're doing the calculations, we know that we have to rely on the Turkish nation's ferocity. Turkish women in particular say: "There is a military debt to men, why does it not owe us birth? We don't want this: we have four children, and we don't want to give four of them the right to be born before the entrance to the SGC. But give at least two children the right to be born. This is something that can be done, valued MPs. I think we should all consider this. There was an injustice to the purchase of police special operations on our daughters. I would like to remind you again of the promise made by Mr. Home Secretary, especially since the Constitution is contrary to the principle of equality. There's been an announcement that there's going to be a pick-up, but the official explanations and appeals will come in January from here, from the podium, again, every one of our heroines is saying in their hearts, "Is there the sex of the love of the country?" Of course there isn't. For him, both our women and our daughters must be evaluated at the point of police special action. We don't particularly want two words to come together: women and violence. And to prevent that, I believe that each group of parties must be in a huge struggle. We are not looking for a political reflex, especially from the ruling party, but for a genuinely nationally-resolved reflex to solve the nation's problem. I really don't think it's necessary for the opposition party to vote against it just because it brought in the research motion or the law proposal. Our girls' strong representation in society, in this sense of support, has been cut off from 2,000 euros in trade for girls in the 3rd league football teams, which remain especially in front of us as a problem and are still unresolved. These children's games have started. We have girls who go to the games and come back hungry on their own. The applications come to me about them, and they must come to you. It's not that hard to figure out. The Sports Ministry budget, which has a huge amount of money to talk about, has to be evaluated to our girls. Of course, it's not right to cut the budget to prevent abuse and abuse of them. What needs to be done? The punishment process for these abusers must be initiated and the measures must be taken that way. Our young people are the future of our country, and in this sense, according to the population registration system based on the address of TİİK May 2017, we have determined that our population is 12 million 989,000 years old among the total population of 79 million, 814, 15 to 24 years old. The young population is 16.3 per cent of our total population. As it turns out, about a quarter of our population is a young population. Again, we have to stress that every penny spent on our young is as good as their mother's milk. Each of us raises our children with high hopes, we want them to study in good schools, we want them to finish good universities, we want them to have a good profession. What are we doing this for? That they may look to the future with hope and be happy, that they may be useful to their country, to their nation. But what happens especially when we look at their front? I think it's the debt of every congressman's neck at the point of expressing their problems here, worrying about each one of them and finding a solution to it, especially the legal arrangement and the need to do what they have to do with the staff. What's important here is that our young people actually want to study in schools that they want to study in, and after they graduate from schools that they want to study, they actually do their own jobs and they're happy. In this sense, in particular within the educational system, every member of the National Party of Action has stopped over and over again over the necessity of developing national projects for the maximum level of staff. Our graduates, technicians and technicians, agriculture, veterinary, water products and fishing technology, food engineers, graduates of economic administrative sciences, graduates of justice, real estate and real estate management, medical secretaries and so on, must be conducted in a study. In this regard, the National Party of Action has legal proposals. It can be calculated, and after computing, once the necessary work has been done on the openings of staff with these young people, it's based on merit, especially here, we've highlighted the interview problem over and over again, in our proposals of the law. We know that we have to remove the injustice of the interview in particular. If it can't be removed, the interview must come through the camera recording system, and this camera recording system must be present in front of our brothers and sisters who have applied as evidence. This problem is not just the problem of our young people's nationalist movement group, it's the matter of politics. It's the problem of every one of our MPs, each of us, sitting under the roof of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, taking the vote. We brought our solution proposals, and we said that commissions should be set up in this regard. But with a political reflex again, unfortunately, it was rejected. In the purchases of police vocational training centres, the purchases of pre-licensed brothers are now taking place as a result of your two-year struggle during the work period. But since the age arrangement for the purchase has been lowered downwards, there is also a lack of age and increased women's quota, it is useful to assess. These demands of our brothers stand before us as righteous demands. The first license, which graduated to 84000, gave accounting graduates 12 staffs to the central appointment this year. This led to the failure of our brothers and sisters who scored 86 above the KPSS. We need to provide employment for these successful young people. Especially when we call it the unemployed young army, how painful it is when we put unemployment and youth together so that a young boy, a young man -- an adult -- should have to look at his mother's father's hand after 18 years of age. In this sense, it is imperative that the graduates of justice, especially the graduates of justice, clerkship, execution guard, and bailiffs, of their own departments, must be given priority, so it is actually the basis of merit from here. Those who are not a public servant, who are not a contractal family health worker, and who have graduated from the departments of emergency medical technicians, mid secondary education and higher education institutions in our country under the decree of the 2011 Law. Likewise, our professor, Mr. Ahmet Selim Yurdakul, who is on this commission, has done the necessary work, especially on the regular deployment of staff members of the medical staff. All of these studies are here, not only from the Turkish Grand National Assembly bench, but also from the commissions, and each of you must have a reflex at the point of special assessment of the commissions. Here, especially when we say the spirit of the new door, we put aside the vicious conflict of politics. This should be understood when we say: Not only is there not only to be repeated mistakes made in the past, but in the spirit of unity, in the spirit of unity, in the spirit of truth, of our country, of our children, of our women, of our elders, of our men, of the needs of our men, of the spirit of unity must be ensured. In this sense, the National Movement Party has always taken the necessary steps to fight terrorism, especially at the point of being with the state, and at the point of being with the state on what needs to be done for its nation, and will continue to do so. Our direction is directed toward our nation and our direction is directed at the demands of our nation. Fair demands should be assessed as long as there are demands that will not upset the balance of the country, which is in line with our party policies. In this sense, I feel that every member of parliament should be sensitive, and I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0171par0045	Thank you, Your Grace. Mr. Kerestecioglu, you've entered the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0172par0050	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a statement regarding a criminal complaint we filed today. You know, in the United States, a commission was set up on the anniversary of the 17-25 December, when there was no trial in Turkey -- the same days we were living in -- on which there was no further action to be made. However, new evidence, new findings, and even serious allegations of state banks have been raised, and other things have been expressed.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0171par0053	Finish your words, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0172par0055	I am, Mr. President. Now, if we were living under the usual circumstances, prosecutors would take action in this country, and they would really, really, open an investigation into this, at least, whether these allegations against Turkey were true or not, at least in the government's or at work, some officials would investigate whether the claims against officials were true; that's what needed to be done. That's why we've filed a complaint against these officials, especially that it's not a national issue, and that it's not really a matter of public interest, and that it can't be reached without being cleared, without having moral, moral, public values renegotiated, and we've asked them to be investigated, and we've asked them to be transferred to parliament to form a commission.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0171par0058	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0172par0059	I'm finishing, my last sentence. However, right now, after the three prosecutors have sent our request to each other -- I assume they're trying to find a place -- you'll get the registration number next week. We're being called -- our application is at that point, and I'd like to submit it to the General Assembly's information. Whoever it is, we're all in it. Really, the allegations of everyone -- I'm telling you -- that there are no issues elsewhere -- need to be taken seriously by prosecutors in this country and investigated by them so that Turkey can be a more transparent country. Thank you for understanding.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0173par0063	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. 1) Ministry of the European Union's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2016 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) Ministry of National Education Central Management Budget for 2018 2) National Ministry of Education 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Death, Choosing and Responsibility Office [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for 2018 is the chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) Metric, Selection and Placement Centre Chairman 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The Board of Higher Education 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2016 Central Management Final Account Congressmans, talks continue on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Now it belongs to our Ankara MP, Mr. Zuhal Topcu. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Topcu, your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0174par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on the budget of the Ministry of Education for 2018. I salute you all. Before we get to the point, I'd like to talk about an unfortunate statement from a Republican People's Party friend of ours, especially about the NGOs when he came here. That's really not a very nice explanation. There was, in particular, an expression of adolescent urges. Believe me, as the National Movement Party, we've never looked at populist events, and we've never brought anything up with the words "small," and we've never turned it into a show, I'd like to point out. These expressions are not in line with common working culture and morality. We work with that friend and other friends of ours at the National Education Commission, and if there's a problem, it's about the size of ownership, the size of solutions to it, it's open to everyone, and everybody knows it. There are no solutions to any of these problems without being turned into a show, especially in virtual environments, with keyboard boy behavior. If you want to produce it, by contacting the right people at the right place, at the right time, these problems need to be resolved, and we're already working with the Secretary, the Undersecretary, and other interested friends to solve these problems, I'd like to point out. Yes, now that we're really getting to the point, when Erkan Mumcu becomes Minister in 2002, we change education all over again. The year 2003, Huseyin Steel says we're changing the system with a previous system problem. The year is 2009, and the education is very important, and we are changing the old system. The year 2011 Omar Dinçer would not be such a system. We're changing the system. The year is 2013, Nabi Hunter -- my teacher was just here -- the system is very troubled. We're changing it. It says, and it's 2016, Mr. Ismet Yilmaz. What kind of system is that? We're making a radical change in the system. They have an expression. I want to ask you from here, what do you understand, what do we understand? Really, first you have to understand the system, so what is this system made up of? So what problem did you solve, what did you achieve with this very important system change? That's what we'd like to ask you. Did you get better results in PISA, more teacher satisfaction, more non-assigned teachers' problems, more violence and Mobbbing in schools, and more problems? Now, looking at it, really, every person who comes in with something like this, you know, we find the culprit, the system is guilty, and we solve it, but there's a big zero. We don't deny your rights. Okay, the cut from the budget is up. Too many schools have been built. The number of students in the classrooms has been reduced. The teacher was appointed. But are they really enough for the future of a country to grow? Oh, we've seen a lot of quantitative work in 15 years, and we've seen that the desired goals haven't been achieved. Then there's a problem. Remember, reforms are always based on data. You don't have the data? I believe it's me, and there's all the data. Why didn't you consider this data when you were doing this? And our current data doesn't match the needs. In these criticisms, our goal is never to wear down the ruling party or the Ministry of National Education; the goal of our criticism is, are these more careful, more carefully chosen words and actions based on data? That's why we're warning you from here. There's consultation in our culture. And this is the seat of this consultation, this great House of Assembly and commissions. That's why the warnings really need to be taken into account here. Yes, we said: if you want to make a change, you have to start with teachers, teachers, teachers, but when you look at teachers, we take from three stages, one, teachers have to be raised; the second, teachers have to be elected and appointed, then their rights to self-esteem, and they have to be continued. But we see that they're all troubled areas, so I'd like to share them with you. Yes, right now, when we come to the training of the teacher, there are universities that are really close to almost 200, which you proudly express. Okay, we've got the opportunity equal. You say, "I'll take it." More than one university has been taken to all the provinces, but when we look at the teachers, there's still a lack of teachers. So, what do we do with those kids after we graduate from college? At the moment, there are more than 400,000 graduates from education schools alone. I don't know about the others. We have young people out there who can't get a job, from economics, engineering, other areas. Now, you're opening up the university, but the pieces are so torn apart that after that, all the kids are out of work. I mean, do we have to get these kids jobs? Yes, you have to create jobs as a social government. I was wondering if you'd been revisiting the departments when you opened the universities. I don't know, do you have a range of areas based on their field of ability? Do they still serve the fields or the faculty of 40 years ago? Did you feel any need for a change? Repeat. You've opened universities. But there's still a lot of work done by the International Economic Forum, the OECD. Now, what is there in the world amongst the talents that are wanted, sought, sought, and sought in the future? There are different features. One is communication skills, leadership, and the other is the use of technology. We're looking at one side, you're bringing in the FATIH Project -- I don't know how many million students there are -- there are now 7-8 million students, 1 million and so on -- but I want to make it clear -- you don't care about computer lessons, you don't care about technology lessons. In those episodes, you went to cut down on the teaching of teachers in computer teaching. These are recessors, these are contradictions, they need to be resolved as soon as possible. Yes, when we look at the transition to teaching after the training of teachers, the transition to teaching is also problematic, the test is particularly problematic. Look, you're taking an oral exam. Let's put it this way: the teacher has no payers and no contractors, and we never accept them. Teacher's got to get his feet on the ground. The teacher feels that he belongs to that school, to that class, despite all these difficult conditions, but he really needs to get his heritage up. You get teachers under contract, but the questions on the exam are problematic. The questions, the torpedoes, they're especially coming to us, they're always complaining. Make it different, please remove the torpedo; remove the question mark on people's heads, candidates' heads, please. So these exams have to be done with objective data. A teacher's candidate shouldn't be looking for references; he has to take a test based on his own knowledge, on his own abilities, but it's been done before everyone knows it's not without references. With 90 points, 80 points, you can't get points without references, so they give you 50 points and lower your score. We really think it's unfair for the future of our country, and we think it's a shame for those kids. And as for paying teachers, if they're still getting paid teaching, they need to be appointed, and those teachers need to be appointed. According to him, with a new programme, the teaching system, the number of teachers in the Ministry of National Education, must be operated again under a new plan of employment. You've done your exams in the past few weeks, but before that, there was a particular discussion at the National Education Commission, and it turned 1,700, and it turns out that it still hasn't been appointed, and we still see that the torpedoes collided, that we're witnessing these tests, that they conflicted. Please, you can't learn from mistakes, but we need to learn from them. So again, we know what these mistakes cost him. Since we all know what the privileges of a group or of some people have brought us together, please let's not do this. Again, there's a new expression, there's talk about whether to apply; it's been tried as a performance review, and I want to report back from here: these studies have been done as pilots, but since the education system hasn't quite fit in yet, they've had setbacks. So we're saying that this performance evaluation system needs to be reviewed. Yes, when we came to colleges, especially our friends before me and all the party groups were mentioned. One of the most important problems right now is the number of teachers, the quality of teachers, and the other is the ability to teach students in their laboratory, and the ability to learn from professors or teachers in different titles, who have actually gone through all the stages. But we're looking at it, and we know that the episodes are open with the CVs of only the guests or the teachers who come in on the job. We can tell from here that the teachers are understaffed. But despite the need for this much clarity, one of the most important problems now is the SOP problem. Yeah, we got these kids. No matter their number, it's called 14,000, 15,000, 7,000, 8,000; it doesn't matter. Even one of us, a student who is a victim of DOA, even if we have an assistant, we say: "Let the people live so that the state can live. Even one person should not be victimized by his motto. They had dreams, they were trying to make those dreams come true, they had hopes, they tried to build all their schemes, their family structures, and they set them up, but then a sudden decision was said: "We have removed the DOJ, we have cancelled it." When you have finished your doctorates, you will be expelled. This will not happen. Later, he was left on the initiative of university presidents. Look, you can't play with a person's hopes. How did you get all this... In particular, we say to the ECHR: Please, whatever hopes these children are being given, they must be reassigned in the same way. If he's a failure, if he's guilty, of course they need to be removed, but these children's futures must not be left in limbo. We say this decision must be reviewed by the university chancellors. I'd also like to remind you of a statement from Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım, which I will not comment on. When the faculty opened, it was as if it had not been thought over. I'll leave his comment to you. So we say, before you do anything, search, plan, execute and evaluate. My mother says: "Don't make a sound of it, and don't throw it all away. Think about it, what will happen? The end, the front, and the back, must be acted on the basis of the expression "Top Anatolian." Yes, at the moment, one of our most important problems is the T.O.G. exam as well as the TYT test as the entrance exam to the university. Yeah, immigration is fucked on the road, and it's never done with logic. You know that, actually, but we see that unplanned and unscheduled work is always a pain in the ass, so we'd like to report it. Look, the people of this country are not rich, their only hope and their only legacy is a good education that they can provide their children with, but it's always played with. Last Tuesday -- thank you -- he gave a briefing to the members of the National Board of Education, and there, he said that a mother asked him to help her transfer to another school for her child when she went to Van. Now, if you ask me why, it's more quality... it's the hoard in your mother's head, the quality of that school. Now, when we look at that mother's statements, what was she thinking of more quality? I wish you'd asked the citizens, I wish you'd asked the families, what do you want to call them? So if you ask them why they insist on making these decisions, perhaps it would be clearer for their children to get a better education. Now, there are 1,192,000 students who have studied in the 8th grade of secondary school, and only 110,000 of them will be put to the test. Well, do you think that only 110 grand will take the test? Look, pretty much all of this is about to take the test. It's a hope, if he wins. If those high-quality schools or qualified schools win the top schools in success, there's hope that many of them will put their children on that test, and many of them will have the same disappointment. So we say as the Nationalist Movement Party: Come, let's lift these exams, but while we're lifting them, a system that's really solid under the ground needs to be sat down gradually as well. We'd like to point out these as well. I don't want to tell you the PlSA results, but we already know that what you're doing here is parallel to the results of the monitoring and evaluation of academic skills expressed in the ABIDE, and in the last statement of OECD, when we look at the Joint Problem Solving Test, we can also point out that our students are in the last rows, and there are no common working cultures. We called it education, but we saw that our values were at stake. Kids need to be taught values, to make them feel, to be models. That's why we say it has to be implemented. As a model, it's got to start with a set of cultures from our schools, from the outside, from the family, all together. And we found that last week, as a result of violence, yes, he walked to Hakk as a mission martyr, and when we look at it here, we would like to share in the survey by TÜRK Education, that indeed the school violence and the number rate of teachers exposed to violence have risen to 45 percent. There's verbal violence, there's psychological violence, and we know that we even have teachers who are subjected to sexual violence. Let us also say that the vast majority of our teachers, close to 90% of them, do not complain about their students. That's the kind of teacher that's shouldering this burden together. I'd like to honor them from here. I'd like to point out what we can do to our teachers. For him, at the meeting that day, especially the values that we emphasise must be implemented immediately, but this must be done by being removed from the form of direct value training and internalized and fed into the programs. That's what we specifically state from here. And with the 2018 budget, I hope it's a blessing. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0175par0117	Thank you, Mr. Topcu. Now, to speak, it belongs to Mr. Kamil Aydın. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Aydın, your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0176par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have taken a solemn pledge on behalf of my party, the National Movement Party regarding the budgets of our National Education Ministry, our universities, the OSCE and the NGO, and I salute your grand delegation. Congressmans, from universal declarations to philosophical doctrines, philosophical doctrines to divine texts, the most honorable of all creation is the most important right and means of education in the monocle of man. So there is no age in learning. There is no age in learning from the cradle to the grave or to the grave for the rest of your life. Is there anyone who doesn't know a thing with someone who doesn't know a thing? &lt;i&gt;Be a slave for 40 years.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;As the teaching that teaches a letter, such as the teaching of a letter, there is education at the root of human development that provides accurate and healthy information.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; As in many developed countries in the world, in Turkey, we have to take into account the education and teaching activities that are divided into subtitles, and to do long-term programmes, which are briefly pre-school education and higher education. Moreover, there must be a close and close relationship between them, and we must not make any priority or later. Congressmans, we've yet to testify that there's a strong nation structure at the foundation of strong and permanent states. So instead of just thinking about development in commercial and technological dimensions, we have to be indispensable to the production of high ideals and ideals, such as cultural values, such as 2071. We witness that these high principles and ideals have been adopted and implemented, given the times when the rise and development of the Turkish state process came forward. Our recent history is the greatest proof of that. If it weren't for Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's sincere commitment to the high values and principles of the Turkish nation, unfortunately, there would be neither will nor will the republic be established, nor will there be talks of a conflict that would lead us to international competition. In this sense, when we look at China, Japan, or Germany today, their development is incomplete only to interpret from science and technology. At that time, as the examples of Turkish national education are often seen from its rich historical past, first of all, it must be aimed at searching and developing the universal, based on basic national values, because it is impossible to know, to identify, to know, to define, to know, to know, to define, to know, to know, to know, to know, to define, to know, to know, to know, to know, to know, to know, to know, to define. Therefore, the search for knowledge and science, free of politics, focused around the common national values of the country, and common property and heritage of humanity, must be based on the production and delivery of it. This is also permanent and successful, and it depends on making these high-profit systematic programs and curriculumes, and implementing and possible malfunctioning aspects of it, and maintaining continuity by doing renovations as much as possible without disrupting them as possible. As in many areas, we bear witness that our young republic has made great strides at the point of education -- God bless those who passed the test. Yes, so far, many speakers have actually touched on some concrete developments - denying that means self-denial. Yeah, we've witnessed, in fact, a lot of great breakthroughs in quantity. What were they? Maybe we've all been supportive, yeah, that sounds good. Our college numbers have increased, our faculty numbers have increased, and the number of departments in these schools has increased. And it wasn't left with that, but, on the other hand, when we look at it, in the first, middle education, pre-school education, and all these pre-schooling processes, yes, we see a development model being implemented in quantity. Well, then, in spite of all this, why did we witness some setbacks in order to express our expectation of a very natural cause and effect relationship at the point of quantitative reflection? Because, you know, when we look at education in an organic integrity, it's very clear that we're actually complaining about a few things. Yeah, we have a big budget, a big budget compared to the rest of the Ministry's budget. E, the area where it serves is very large; we have a very young population, we have a dynamic population, but you know, a proportion of this budget, you know, that's almost four fifths of the way, especially in terms of staff costs and payment to the SGK. So we have a little bit of a problem at the point of funding new investments or idealized new programs, Mr. Secretary. What's all this? Yes, we have a vision, we have a goal, we have a goal in training, we have to remove bilateral training. This is really a very important decision on behalf of the state of the Republic of Turkey, on behalf of the Turkish youth, but when we look at the cost of it, there's a cost of teaching both in need of a teacher and in need of a school. And since we have a need profile like that, I think it would be better if this budget was expanded a little bit, especially in an investment-heavy direction. So, here we are, and then the number per student goes up even higher. Yes, and today, at an unprecedented rate, student-class numerical relationship is a trend of recovery, but it reaches a much more ideal point. What was that? You know, we come and go in between 20 and 30 numbers, and instead, if we have the goal of pulling it under 20, then we get the standard, not the OECD, but in other developed countries in the West. Despite all of this, respected lawmakers, yet, yes, we have an increasing number of pre-school education, elementary education, secondary education, universityization rates, but still, when we look at it, we see that regional differences are very different. We, the National Movement Party, have a very, very specific statement that we put in our party programmes and election statements for education. Our goal should be to base our educational policies on the perspective of high civilization. I mean, really, if we have any idea of catching this high-management perspective, we should do everything in our power to fix this gap between the provinces, even within the same city. Each educator has a very basic formula that is very comfortable to express, what is this: Sir, to be equitable in educational inputs and to subject them to a fair measurement in education outputs. What is it to be equitable in these educational entries? So every citizen of the Republic of Turkey is to ensure that each Turkish son can benefit from the same training facilities, opportunities, equipment, equipment, and teacher. This allows us to apply this curriculum equally, and as an educational output, this time, with a fair test, with a fair assessment -- we don't have to call it a test -- we can make sure that they transfer from pre-school to primary school, secondary education to secondary education very freely. We're discussing the budget for the Ministry of National Education. So far, many speakers have expressed it as a bleeding wound, meaning, really, our teachers are not teachers of one letter, but of many letters. So, really, we need to make the kind of improvements they deserve by keeping them out of rhetoric, and the status differences between them need to be resolved. 400,000 of our children are really waiting with that hope. Don't you dare think that a few speakers before us... indeed, I find it a bit unfortunate, it shouldn't be compared like this. Yes, we have 400,000 waiting, but we have appointed the most teachers in the history of the republic. These people expect our services, from all of us. We'll do the necessary support. This 400,000 didn't come out on its own. Look, collegeization was a good project, maybe, every college was the right project, but the wrong steps have been taken before the infrastructure was filled, before the foundations were set on solid ground. I'm going to give you a concrete example, Mr. Chief of Staff is here, and we talk about it from time to time. What was that? Look, we never gave up hope for these kids except for teaching. Why? It's very systematic, really, in collegeization, hopefully we'll do a job-oriented universityization after this, and we won't be late, if we put a job-oriented universityization, facultyization and divisionalization in the first place, believe me, these 400,000s will melt. Look, because these kids... what is it: we opened up colleges like a baby, but we didn't open the universities, considering the sociocultural structure of the province that we opened, the development model, the value of addition. Believe me, we put a copy of the paper in the middle. Look at every college, for God's sake, it's standard, it's the same faculty, it's standard, it's the same department, we've memorized it now. Science, literature, business, engineering, theology, science, literature, business, engineering, theology. Recently, law schools have joined this caravan, and unfortunately, there is another danger waiting for us. Not those who hope to become 400,000 teachers, but those who hope to become lawyers. I feel like we're giving in to your qualifications by increasing the quantity of these professions. Then what do we do? We added the technical college caravan to that. Now, I won't name names, but two universities, one of which is called a technical university. Believe me, the episodes are the same: science, literature, business, engineering. Now, one's name is technical, there's only one engineering; it exists normally. Now, that's what we've done, we've piled these kids up to the doors that are expected with those hopes of teaching. Later, those who had given up hope of becoming teachers even applied to police officers, to petty officers, to special sergeants. Of course, it's all an honorable profession, all based on serving the country, the nation, we're not underestimating it, but please, from now on... Mr. SEC President, I think he's put this kind of review into his program, and I know, hopefully, from now on, we'll at least develop these 400 grand melting formulas, hopefully, and a new employment-oriented, especially because they're doing very well at foundation universities, they're putting it directly into their missions and visions. Let's do the same thing at public colleges from now on. Our current universities have increased, but we're short of faculty. And when we add to that the July 15 traitor attempt, we really have too many wounds, too many breaches, they need to be closed. But the most important part of shutting it down, Mr. Chief of Staff, the valued bureaucrats, Mr. Secretary, is, believe me, if it's a challenge, then I've just said, the National Movement Party has the perspective of high civilization education. The way to do that, yes, is to capture the universal. Please let the professor of higher education abroad be assigned to the university -- as in the past -- whether it's through the NGO or through TÜBITAK. Let it be sent because we're talking about a lifetime process, science. Since knowledge is in our teaching, if it is in China, let's go get it and continue to buy it. Look, we've been holding these numbers a little bit these days, maybe you've done it in a precautionary fashion, and I'm not saying anything, but please let's just put it back into practice and increase the numbers and encourage grad school abroad, especially in advanced universities, to send these kids away. It also contributes to the introduction of our country, of our culture, of our values. I mean, for God's sake, can you think of a St. Sancar prototype? We have a Halil Inalcik prototype, don't we? So, that's how far that generation went and carried us there, and they spent millions of dollars on our country's Recognising Fund, and we couldn't do it. And I'd like to offer this to your attention at the point of development. The OSCE, yes, has witnessed great scandals, and unfortunately, we've all learned about how that treacherous structure has been donated, what irregularities, what copying, what shady work it's done, and what shady work it's done within the information you've provided. In fact, last year, we witnessed a mistake in the evaluation of 7,084 of our students on an LYS exam. Now, as soon as you've recovered, you'll be able to activate your own internal dynamics and give it to your people. Look, there's one thing that's fundamental to all of these numbers: driver's license and merit. Sir, what's a driver's license? It's a specialty. Liquor is talent. Let's give people who are capable and really talented a little insight into these institutions. We've had terrible experiences in the past.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0177par0147	Let's lift the line!
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0178par0148	What are we going to do with the Imam orator?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0179par0149	We, the CHP, have been calling it "liberty" since the beginning.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0180par0150	The other thing is, look, just now, the speaker before me made it very clear. Let's not make any new wounds, please. Look, we had an institution called the 150-year-old honorary inspectorship. Indeed, we all have examples in our close relatives and in our mate's friend. Do you know who they were? They were training workers, they were a group that traveled through the county with wooden luggage, went to school and started at the very first level of education. So they started out as elementary school teachers, they became assistant principals, they became principals, and then maybe they were vice principals, maybe they didn't, maybe they didn't, and they became inspectors. It's over 5,000. For God's sake, now, as a community, we're talking about 18 million students, over 1 million and over 70,000 institutions. Now, it's something that can't be done with an inspection, control, evaluation, 5,000 figures. We kept it, sir, to please someone -- now I'm going to express who they are -- what did we do? We've reduced it to 2,000, we've removed the others. We put them to the test, they won 2,000, they didn't get enough, we called them interviews, 400 or so -- let's say 500 -- and the others are waiting. Now, for God's sake, Mr. Secretary, please don't hand over our institutions to the underprivileged, let's keep this friendly union out of sight. I'll make it clear from here. The union shouldn't be at a decision-making point in these institutions. Of course, let him make suggestions, of course, let him present his suggestions, let him convey his experiences, but at the point of appointment, don't allow him the slightest activity at the moment of decision-making, because a lot of our people are being offended. Now, on the one hand, we have a real national and domestic claim, but on the other hand, we have a lot of petitions, a lot of complaints. Both as school administrators and as inspectors, I mean, what was our specialty that we couldn't do this job, that we weren't worthy of, that we weren't given these kinds of tasks. So, really, unions from universities and national educational institutions need to be taken away, so there's no need to get involved. We're the real deal, the right and the driver's license. Now, in the name of the good things that have been done, we have expressed our thanks, our thoughts. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And in the commissions, we'd like to discuss this... Sir, if you'll excuse me for a moment...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0181par0158	I'll give you one more minute to finish your words, Mr. Aydın. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0180par0160	Now, our physical conditions are getting better and better. It's our duty to call it good. Now, we've got disabled students, they've become teachers. Really, God forbid, we're all potentially disabled, you know. We're still really short on work conditions here, but I just want to share something that's good for morale, because they're both my students. I ripped it out of a newspaper clipping. Sir, my students from Antioch -- my students, Hakan Reyhani and Ahmet Topsal -- are both teachers, teaching at Denizli, and they really have all kinds of opportunities and equipment that will allow them to teach in wheelchairs. Here we want them to multiply, Mr. Secretary, we want them to multiply. Or I say there's no value in channeling the budget to different channels, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0182par0164	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Congressmans, the talks on behalf of the groups are complete. Now, on behalf of the individuals, our first speaker is Mr. Markar Eseyan. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Eseyan, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0183par0170	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn pledge on behalf of myself on behalf of our valued lawmakers and valued citizens, the 2018 Financial Budget Bill. I salute you all with love and respect. Mother of the law, I wish our budgetary negotiations, the main activity of parliaments, would bring blessings to our country. Although economic sizes come to mind, a country's economic health has fundamental effects in many diverse and critical areas. As you know, the Ottoman state had entered a period of dissolution in other areas of economic weakness mentioned recently. In 1838, with the surrender of trade agreements with major countries, the state was trapped in a historical trap, called İdris Küçükömer. In fact, the industrial and national economic moves that Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk tried to do during the early republic and the efforts of the late Adnan Menderes to spread wealth on the ground, as well as the attempts of the late Turgut Ozal to open Turkey to the world, were also intended to address that weakness. We have all the politicians who have worked hard on this matter here at our mercy. The EC PARTY has seen itself as a continuation of this school since its arrival in power on 3 November 2002 and has shown maximum interest in the economy. The EC PARTI, which took over an economy that suffered the devastating effects of the February 2000 crisis, has folded the country's economy to three € in every field in the last 16 years, with structural reforms, hard monetary policy and budget discipline. THE main factor of the AK PARTY's election achievements is this success in economic management. In this case, significant transfers of funds from education to health, from large infrastructure investments to success in defence industry have been possible. Turkey quickly began to break the historical trap, ending its debt relationship with the IMF. Turkey, which splits half the budget into debt interest before the EC PARTY, spends $86 of every $100 tax it collects, has dramatically lowered those rates. The increased resource has been shifted to the areas our citizens need. Dear lawmakers, you know, the third quarter growth rate has recently been announced. It was an 11.1 percent world record, and it made most of us proud. Sadly, some circles acted as if Turkey had not grown 11 per cent and had shrunk by 11 per cent themselves. They said that growth did not reflect on the citizens, it was caused by the base effect. Of course, we respect every opinion, but it seems that these evaluations are not factual, they are political. Because looking at pencils, industrial production in the third quarter is 13.7 per cent; housing sales are 23.4%; automotive sales are 15 per cent; tourism growth is 38.1%; white goods sales are 16.4 per cent -- very important -- machine and equipment investments increased 15.3%. So the increase in many pens has seen over 11.1 per cent growth rate. On the trip, on December 17-25, at the 6-7 October pogrom, given the resources lost on July 15th, I leave it to the public to appreciate what our country will be in today's situation in case those risks didn't take place. It should not be forgotten that the problems we've been dealing with against seven heifers, which we've been dealing with in this particular time of global overturning, rather than with Turkey's internal issues, are caused by global processes, the last Jerusalem resolution, and the Syrian civil war. Turkey is very well managed in these difficult times, but the importance of unity and unity is undisputed in order for it to be managed even better. In this regard, a more responsible and more positive contribution by the main opposition party, which is essential to our democracy, is one of Turkey's most important shortcomings. Dear MPs, Turkey, Syria, Iraq, Arakan and Palestine have again been the strongest voice in the world defending the rights and the case of the oppressed. The division of Syria and Iraq will not be allowed to form terrorist states around here, nor will a common peace such as Jerusalem be looted. Jerusalem is a common value of both the three heavenly religions and mankind. At the Extraordinary Summit of the Islamic Association for Co-operation, these facts and determination echoed at the highest level. Here, when Turkey is strong in its own, economy and politics, it is possible to break down evil games, give the world hope for a more optimistic future. Turkey, the refuge of all the oppressed is a great state; it is great with its nation, great with its history, great with its martyrs. The future of the world will not be drawn without Turkey. As I end my words, I salute and thank the entire General Assembly and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0184par0179	Thank you, Mr. Eseyan. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0185par0181	In his speech, Mr. orator, the fact that the main opposition is not in a more responsible understanding is Turkey's greatest lack. He also made a claim to irresponsible opposition, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0184par0182	Here you go, Mr. Altay. Let's not get into any more bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0185par0186	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish Mr. Eseyan had listened to my speech on the Home Office budget. I put up the nuances between the government and the government there, one. I said don't bring national matters into domestic politics; two. Don't expect us to support the President-General's opposition to political consolidations inside, but in this geography, we've always, always, outside, we've repeated that we're going to be with the government, the government, the nation, and so on; three. Of course, if there's any real responsibility here, Mr. Eseyan, it falls to power. On every occasion, as a president, as a member of the state as a representative of the nation, if you say what you say to Mr. Chairman of the Main Opposition Party, then, wow, this President, don't insult this, don't disrespect this. This is not what you say. The insult is as kind as it can be...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0186par0189	How's that for a polite insult?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0185par0190	But what can you do? An insult requires a little bit of an insult, and I wish it didn't, and I wish it didn't. I've told you a thousand times there's no people in this land who don't count. All the people in the world, all the people in the world, they've got accounts in this land. You're saying that seven duvets are against Erdogan, not seven duvets against Erdogan. Recep Tayyip Erdogan is making his sensitivity political material; here is the issue, here is the issue. Don't worry, Recep Tayyip Erdogan isn't responsible for 780,500 square kilometers of geography, and if he's alone, we'll be ruined anyway. We're in charge of 80 million together, so you should be aware of that. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0187par0194	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0188par0195	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0187par0196	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0189par0197	Oh, what's wrong with that? What's wrong with that? You can't even stand it, and then you call it the irresponsible opposition!
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0188par0198	Mr. President, regarding Mr. Erdoğan, our President, our President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0190par0199	You can do better than that.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0191par0200	Guys, look, I can't hear you, Mr. Group Vice President. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0192par0202	The national issues will not be compatible with an understanding of power responsible for providing material to domestic politics, so as a comment, he has made a challenge that may ultimately lead to irresponsible power, and I demand a word in this framework.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0191par0203	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0193par0205	And since he considers what I'm saying irresponsible, I'd like to speak in advance of bullying, now, for that promise.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0192par0207	Mr. President, dear friends, of course we agree with part of the speech Mr. Altay made here. Everyone in this country is all about the will of the nation. It is our duty to establish a common line of solidarity for Turkey's joint issues, its presence in this difficult geography. It's also a political representation of these things, and it's certain that that political representation was carried out mainly by the authorities, as democracy dictates. The government performs this representation, and the opposition, of course, supports both national issues and certainly, at the same time, does its criticisms. What we're always against, what we object to is that no one can be criticized, no one can be secular, and there can also be criticisms against the President. We're untouchable, we can't be spoken of, there are people in this country... No, we don't have that approach. What we're saying is that we're against insults. Especially the charismatic personality of the President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0194par0209	We don't find it charismatic.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0192par0210	... The effect on large sections has led to a character that has led a political movement to power for 16 years: If you are going to fight against this structure, this politics, you need to attack the most centrally Erdogan figure. We need to get Turkey out of this equation. If we oppose insults, it is a political stance in the line of opposition to insults, and it is my duty, and the duty of Mr. Altay. It is the duty of all. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0195par0213	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0196par0214	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0195par0215	Mr. Altay, I'm listening.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0196par0216	I can't say anything about what Mr. Bostanci said on the stand, but he's been taunting me here, accusing me of irresponsibleness, and I demand a word.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0197par0217	A minute and a half, a minute and a half from the podium.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0198par0218	Not that teasing.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0199par0219	I didn't say irresponsible.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0200par0220	That's what he said, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0199par0221	I said he's accusing us of irresponsible.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0200par0222	No way!
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0199par0223	That's what I said. He's accusing power of irresponsibleness.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0201par0224	Yes, yes, he said it because you accused power of irresponsibleness.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0200par0225	You said I acted irresponsiblely on the stand.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0199par0226	I said he accused power of irresponsibleness.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0200par0227	Everybody heard it, you said it, everybody heard it.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0202par0228	You've got it all wrong.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0203par0229	Don't get me wrong, Engin Altay.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0204par0230	He's correcting it, but Mr. Altay, Mr. Bostanci is correcting it.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0205par0231	Engin President, we'll put you through in a minute and a half.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0206par0232	No...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0207par0233	Mr. President, I've requested this by taking a statement from Mr. Altay's statements of irresponsibility towards power.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0206par0234	He didn't say that the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0208par0235	That's what he said. He fixed it.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0207par0236	That's exactly what I said. Let him look at the report.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0206par0237	So if Mr. Bostanci says that the Republican People's Party is a responsible opposition party, I withdraw my request.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0209par0238	No, we can't say that, absolutely.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0207par0239	Wait a minute, now, while I was talking about my request to make a commitment here, I said that I had made a comment from Mr. Altay's assessment that would be perceived as irresponsible to power, and I wanted to pick on it in that frame; that's what I wanted, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0210par0240	Engin President, a minute and a half, let's find a break.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0211par0241	One minute from your position.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0210par0242	No, a minute and a half from the podium.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0212par0243	So let's report from here that Mr. Bostanci has declared and confirmed that the People's Party of the Republic has an understanding of a responsible opposition party.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0213par0244	No, no, it's not like that.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0214par0245	There's a record of what I said.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0212par0246	Thank you, I don't have any words.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0215par0247	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0214par0248	Mr. President, there are reports of what I said. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0215par0250	Mr. Tanal, you've entered the system, your request?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0216par0251	Mr. President, I'd like a very brief -- important -- according to 60, if possible.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0215par0252	Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0216par0255	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister of National Education, there are 13 or 15 universities that have been shut down, 65 thousand students who have graduated from them, and all of these students have been investigated for security, and they say to themselves, He has earned the right to take the first degree of language by finishing with success. He says that in this diploma, only in the context of his necessary work... At the university, it's called... This is a tag, because of the tagging, these children can't get a job; the future of these children is being manipulated by their hopes; these children are being offended by the state. These kids could've been your kids, could've been ours. So it's really a crime in terms of the Criminal Code that students who've been through this kind of security investigation get their diplomas in this way. And you're a good lawyer. In that sense, are you going to process these? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] For example, our Minister of Energy had also graduated from these schools. He said: "I didn't sell this head to them. " These people had gone through the security investigation, and they didn't sell their minds to them. In that sense, what do we want with our children? Will you at least say something to their hopes, to their futures, to make them feel better? Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit04spe0217par0260	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0217par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read them and present them to your knowledge. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly According to Article 2 of Law No. 3620 on the Order of Foreign Relations of Turkey, "The Black Sea Economic Co-operation Parliament Assembly (KEIPA) and the Turkish-speaking Countries Parliamentary Assembly (TÜRKPA) will be named as members to represent the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It's for the information of the General Assembly. Black Sea Economic Co-operation Parliament Assembly (KEIPA) Members of Turkey Delegation Mahmut Celadet Güdalı Bitlis MP Bulent Yener Bektasoğlu Giresun MP Turkish-speaking Countries Parliamentary Assembly (TÜRKPA) Members of Turkey Delegation Mahmut Celadet Güdalı Bitlis MP Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt Konya MP Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly "The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of Security and Co-operation, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, the Parliamentary Assembly for the Mediterranean Sea, the Parliamentary Assembly for the Mediterranean, the Parliamentary Assembly of Asia, the Parliamentary Assembly for Economic Co-operation Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly for Islamic Co-operation Agency, the Parliamentary Assembly for Islamic Affairs, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the 12th Assembly for Parliamentary Assembly for Parliamentary Assembly of Parliaments. Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (AKP) Members of the Delegation of Turkey Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkş Ankara MP Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan Ankara MP Ahmet Haluk Koç Ankara MP You've brought Kani Torun Bursa MP Emine Nur Günay Eskişehir MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir İstanbul MP Leyla Şahin, Master Conconian MP Akif Çağatay Kılıç Samsun MP Metin Lütfi Baydar Aydın MP Lütfiye İnsen Ceritoğlu Kurt Çorum MP Ahmet Berat Çonkar İstanbul MP Durmiş Ali Sarıkaya İstanbul MP Mehmet Kasım Gülpınar Şanlıurfa MP European Security and Co-operation Agency Parliament Assembly (OSCEPA) Members of Turkey Delegation Sena Nur Çelik Antalya MP Mediterranean Parliament Assembly (ECDENS-PA) Members of Turkey Delegation Union Parliament Assembly for the Mediterranean (AIBPA) Members of Turkey Delegation Asian Parliament Assembly (APA) Members of Turkey Delegation Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Bartin MP Economic Co-operation Organization Parliament Assembly (EITPA) Members of Turkey Delegation Parliamentary Union of Islamic Co-operation (İSPAB) Members of Turkey Delegation Mehmet Ali Aslan Batman MP Haci Ahmet Özdemir Konya MP NATO Parliament Assembly Members of Turkey Delegation Fatma Güldemet Yellow Adana MP Metin Lütfi Baydar Aydın MP Ahmet Berat Çonkar İstanbul MP Durmiş Ali Sarıkaya İstanbul MP Kamil Okyay İzmir MP Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Van MP Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan Ankara MP Ahmet Haluk Koç Ankara MP You've brought Kani Torun Bursa MP Oğuz Kaan Salcı İstanbul MP Mustafa Hilmi Dülger Kilis MP Inter- Parliamentary Union (PAB) Members of Turkey Delegation Lütfiye İnsen Ceritoğlu Kurt Çorum MP Süleyman Senser Ayata İstanbul MP It has been presented to your knowledge. Congressmans, we continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 years and with the Central Management Act of 2016. 1) Ministry of the European Union's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2016 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) Ministry of National Education Central Management Budget for 2018 2) National Ministry of Education 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Death, Choosing and Responsibility Office [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for 2018 is the chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) Metric, Selection and Placement Centre Chairman 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The Board of Higher Education 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2016 Central Management Final Account The commission and the government are in place. Congressmans, the government will now begin speaking on behalf of the government. The first statement belongs to the Minister of the European Union, Mr. Omar Çelik. Mr. Steel, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0218par0203	Mr. President, are our congressman friends protesting against the Minister? Why aren't they coming, Mr. President of this AK PARTY Group?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0219par0204	What's it to you?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0217par0205	Mr. Steel, your time is thirty minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0220par0207	Mr. President, thank you very much. I salute the MPs. Mr. President, we've been interviewing this budget all morning, and I'd like to put it on the record as a matter of interest. I see that you, the Speaker, have been making a special effort since this morning to make these talks positive, and I thank you very much for that, thank you very much.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0221par0211	Thank you, Minister. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0220par0213	My condolences on the loss of Mr. Mesut Yilmaz, one of our former prime ministers. May God have mercy on him, and may his earth be in heaven, and may God show no mother and father such pain.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0222par0214	Amen.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0220par0215	Congressmans, I've also watched our friends speak very carefully. Of course, as we've noticed in the budget talks, in the Grand Assembly, I see that Turkey's membership in the European Union is a consortium for a high performance and progress on a healthy ground. This, of course, is a happy understanding for our government in terms of our Parliament, which must defend the national interests of our country. Sure, it's a long adventure. I've been part of this adventure, I've had a number of observations, I've participated in a lot of negotiations since I was the first MP in 2002, so we've come from a process where I'm both a witness and a participant, and we've come from many different stages. Of course, we have to look at a broader picture of Turkey-European Union relations, whether we want to or not. We're all watching together, and the developments that have emerged in almost a year have brought us a lot of images that at various times correspond to the ten-year flow of Earth's history. The balances in the world are changing quickly, and I keep thinking: "The Chinese have a curse. " When the Chinese curse someone, they say, "May God keep you alive during the transition." We're going through a process where we can say that the world is in a full transition, but what's certain is that, as far as I can tell, the order formed after World War II is definitely changing. The liberal consortium, which emerged after the end of World War II, cracks both in terms of values and raises serious questions about its mechanisms. So it is possible to say that we are entering a more turbulence, a more difficult period. We can already see that the next world will not be a better world for the stability of these mechanisms, for the preservation of these values than it has ever been. Of course, it's not pessimism, it's realism. We need to put all these developments in order to look back at the next period, and we need to think together and take precautions so that this Turkish ship can continue steadyly in the troubled waters of this ocean. But the transatlantic relationships we know are now changing radically, and its indicators are no longer hidden, they are clearly revealed. From a long time ago, when the roots of the European Union were looked at, some commentators used to say that, in fact, after the Napoleonic Wars, the result of the debates that the British had made, such as Napoleon, had been able to break the borders of Europe and form a system for it, had passed through various evolutionary processes and into the European Union. So for the first time, it's ironic, of course, that a person like Napoleon in Europe is leaving the European Union at this point today, which is the origin of the debates, so that the European Union can't go around messing with the borders and order of the European Union, and that is a major review of the mechanisms and values in the European Union. Of course, here, the European Union stood firm. In the first stage of Brexit (Brexit), only the second stage was moved after he met the demands of England after the great negotiations. So because 27 countries have a firm stance against Britain, I mean the European Union's firm stance on the process of ▪Brexit (Brexit), it has shown that it will not allow a process called "soft Brexit" in any way without carrying out its obligations. Of course, there's a very clear argument, and we're all seeing it, and it's the last thing that came up on the matter of Jerusalem. Unfortunately, the President of the United States has made a decision to make history as a great mistake and a tragic decision about Jerusalem. And here we have found that the European Union, in fact, did not adopt the position of the President of the United States as a result of the breaking of these transatlantic relations and strongly opposed the recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. Netanyahu went to Brussels, and when he went to Brussels, he did not get what he wanted. The European Union has not changed its stance here that the two-state solution, the 1967 resolution, and the recognition of East Jerusalem as the capital of Palestine. This is actually a break between the United States and the European Union, which has not been seen for a very long time. You know, it happened before that, you know, in the Paris Climate Change Agreement, this debate first arose, and then it had to be said to NATO that Merkel had to say something like this to NATO to criticize the contribution of the European Union, and this is a historical sentence: I see that we are entering a period where the old alliances are ending. Europeans should now make more effort to ensure their own safety. Of course, after that, there's debates about European security, PESCO. For the time being, they are said to be no alternative to NATO, but the European period of policymaking in the parallel plane with America seems to be over. Of course, that's a big break. So far, the presidents of the United States have strongly advocated the European order and European stability, European integration, for the first time a president, Trump, said that he supports the decision after a while, that it is not the first, that decisions will follow. Of course, it's a very serious situation, because normally in terms of stability, in terms of the safety of transatlantic relations, American presidents need to support European order, European stability. It's said that there's no such rule, but some analysts say, "Why was NATO built?" The point of NATO is that this whole thing is beyond what was written. Of course, it's not an official opinion, it's something that some analysts say to understand NATO. They say that NATO is an organization built to keep the United States in Europe, to keep the Soviet Union out of Europe, to keep Germany in place. Of course, it is said to describe the order that occurred after World War II. We all know what it means to keep Germany in place after World War II, but for the first time, the President of the United States began to question its contribution to European security and to criticize its European allies for more financial aid. This, of course, is a heavy dissolution, not a situation; you have to see it clearly. The last time, you know, I joined the Security Forum in Canada with our Chief of Staff, the Halifax Security Forum, where I saw strong arguments being held. A third point, of course, is the issue that has been written, drawn, evaluated in Europe since then: The threat to Europe was expected to come from outside Europe, Russia and China were given an example for this, but that was not the case with Europeans. From Russia and China, there was no threat to Europe, although there was a variety of controversy, the threat came from within Europe itself. The emergence of extreme right-wing currents, the emergence of racists in many places, fascists in many places, parties such as Wilders in the Netherlands, Le Pen in France, Germany, and AfD in Germany, have emerged as a threat to European order. I've just seen them looking at agencies, and in Czechia, the extreme party of Czechia, Le Pen and Wilders, and they're using an argument like this because we're against the European Union because they're destroying Europe. Therefore, the coming of this threat from the inside is a serious threat to European order, and we need to assess it well. Of course, there's a value crisis in all of this. What I see in this is that they are now trying to make the issue of Islamophobia a matter for the people. We see a lot of propaganda here, a lot of activity. From Turkey's point of view -- something that we've been following for a very long time -- I'm getting a broadcast from a publishing group -- I'm having it analyzed -- in a single broadcast group in Europe -- there are over 5,000 magazines in one year -- there are newspapers -- news coming out against Turkey, 4,000 of them related to our President. They set up a political matrushka: Like those matrushka babies, they put Erdogan's hostility at the very top, under which there is hostility to Turkey, under which there is hostility to Islam, concealing immigration hostility and alien hostility under it. Of course, when you look at the roots of the parties that run these currents, there's anti-Semitism under there, but when you look at the bottom of it, we see a strong hostility to the European values, to the values of the European Union. So it's a serious condition that the mindset, which is trying to destroy European values in the Netherlands, the second party in France, is now entering the Assembly in Germany -- after World War II -- and, unfortunately, has become a coalition partner in Austria and, unfortunately, has also received critical ministries in Austria, such as the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Of course, there is one side in Europe where the crisis of values hit Turkey. So our friends, of course, are rightfully saying what we need to do; yes, we have to do these things, we have to follow them -- I'll talk about the reasons for this -- but there's something Europeans often say. On the day that we received a date of negotiations from the European Union, as we left that corridor, we encountered the establishments of Tony Blair, Berlusconi, Schröder, and they said, "What happened?" We said, "We faced such a situation inside, and we are leaving this place." Then -- I remember very well -- Peter Westmacott, the British Ambassador, said, "Can you wait a few minutes?" We'll pack up for a few minutes, we'll tidy up our room. We said -- we had a room there -- and within ten minutes, Berlusconi, Schröder and Tony Blair came into that room, and they had a strong meeting, and they removed the vision the Dutch at the time, and they moved to a stage where the date of negotiation was taken. I'd like to make it clear to the esteemed lawmakers that we're having a very difficult time finding actors like these in Europe. Of course, we have friends; of course, we have democrats, but there are times when they're having a hard time. Of course, the biggest break between us was the night of July 15th. Since the first bombings began on the night of July 15th, I -- at that time Slovakia -- I informed Slovak Foreign Minister Lajcak. There is a coup attempt in Turkey, you need to stand next to Turkish democracy, you need to be in solidarity. Immediately after, the current Italian Prime Minister Gentiloni was then the Foreign Minister of Italy, I informed him, and then I informed the other actors. They were all at that time at the ASEAN meeting, and they were in Mongolia, and they issued a statement, but unfortunately, after that declaration on behalf of the European Union, the first statement was made in the following way: we watch the developments in Turkey with concern, we recommend it to the parties. Of course, we showed a great infinitive to those parties in response to the statement of self-reliant recommendation, because they used the same sentence when Sisi struck in Egypt. You know, there's always something behind these sentences that we're very excited to work with those who come in later. We strongly reacted by telling us that it was to keep the gunmen and the legitimate government, our great nation, the legitimate Assembly equal. Of course, unfortunately, they couldn't handle it, and after a certain time, the European Parliament decided that negotiations with Turkey should be cut off. The big question here is, yes, chapters are opened, they don't open, but Europe comes forward as a democratic order. This Parliament was bombed that night, in this Parliament, many of our deputies, many of our MPs, all of our parties, in the presidency of our Parliament President, protected this Parliament when this Parliament was bombed. This is a heroic parliament. So the first thing the European Parliament should have done as a democratic institution was to come here and be in solidarity with its own colleagues, but the European Parliament did not, European Parliament President Schulz arrived in Turkey three months later. Thus, we face a conflicting situation. As this has not been done, a decision, such as the decision to cut negotiations with Turkey, has been made with a very ill-advised decision. The main duty of parliaments is to talk, to negotiate. So if one Parliament respects another parliament's struggle for democracy under these conditions and salutes it and talks about cutting off its negotiations, of course, it doesn't matter to us.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0223par0228	But on July 20th, you struck.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0224par0229	What happened on July 20th, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0220par0230	As a matter of fact, it turned out to be a blackout in the IPA funds our friends were talking about. Of course, that's tragic. A 105m-euro cutback on IPA funds to Turkey is a product of this visionlessness, much less the second 3 billion euros, which failed to complete the first 3 billion euros in financial aid. Of course, the recent embodiment of this issue, unfortunately, is this government programme established in Austria, and its government programme. They form a coalition government in Austria with the centre-right party -- the People's Party and the ultra-rightist party -- the Freedom Party -- and for the first time, it becomes an ultra-rightist coalition partner. In this picture, they present a government programme that talks about cutting talks with Turkey. Of course, this is a direct attack on European values because the former Foreign Minister, Kurz, will be the current Prime Minister, is a person who violates European values in many terms, making statements about how immigrants should be kept outside the European borders, for example, outside the walls, and using over-right rhetoric. Of course, here, we hope that Austria will have common sense after this government is established. But if they don't, I remind them that this is how the Weimar Republic was destroyed, and that's how it was destroyed when Hitler was formed as a democratic republic in the process of coming to power. We're also warning you about that. Of course, the other day, Schulz mentioned one thing: my dream is to form European united states. I don't know if European United States are built or not, but what makes the European Union superior and attractive to the world right now is that it's based on political values. The idea of a unified state is a model where values don't play a lot of centers in this way, where more solidarity comes first. In this context, I would like to say that the place they want to take the process to is also grave in terms of the future of Europe. Let's have all kinds of discussions in Turkey. It's healthy for us to have these discussions. In no way is it possible for our governments to give up the process of full membership in the European Union. Many reforms have been made here. We've put a lot of work into this process, and now that we're looking at the situation in the world, we're looking at national interests. We don't know when the problem in our south will be solved. There are other developments in the Far East, we have problems with the United States, and the European Union is now the closest stable region to our country. In terms of democratic gains in this stable region, economic gains, we have the will to share them. But what we see in the middle, we have to draw it clearly. The process of full membership to the European Union is a state policy and a strategic goal. Now, some of our friends here said, "Mr. President, we don't need Europe." Yes, we don't. In the continuation of that sentence, the President of Europe said to the European Union: "The first thing the European Union has to do is to make Turkey a full member of the European Union, because when this sentence is used against us... they bring to us in the face of some injustices, hypocrisy: ▪ Turkey needs the European Union. I tell them that we have been a strong European state throughout history, and we have been a powerful European democracy for a hundred years. Whatever we've come to today, we'll go far beyond that. We continue to expand our same democracy, continue to expand our economy. Oh, if we do this as a full member of the European Union, there will be a win-win situation here, where Turkey will win, and the European Union will win. But Turkey needs the European Union. Turkey does not need the European Union if there is a sentence. Turkey's goal of full membership is not a need or a need relationship, it is a win-win relationship. In terms of our national interests, in order to improve the standards of our democracy, in order to ensure the integration of our economy, we continue to continue this process in a strong way. Thus, the issue of the European Union has since been established as a surrender or a reaction to whether Turkey is a compromise. No, Turkey has worked so hard for so many years, these gains have been made for Turkey's national interests, and our will to achieve more is moving on strongly. As a matter of fact, we also need to see that we're counting the changes in Turkey, but there's no flat, stable terrain, and we're on a bumpy road. So the European Union wasn't the European Union a year ago, it wasn't the European Union two years ago. In this regard, I would like to say to the great Parliament that there is not a single area left empty about this full will of Turkey, which our friends have stated here. What we're asking is, in the face of all of this, how do we do this? You're criticizing us, and we're not running away from those criticisms. If we were to avoid these criticisms, we'd say, "We're done with the European Union." So, how do we do it? They're mechanisms created by the European Union to solve problems between us and ourselves and move forward together. We say you're going to open the beans. If we were afraid that the opening of chapters, the European Union process would hurt us, or if we had given up the process, we would have avoided opening chapters. On the contrary, I say open the chapters. The other issue is, what do you most criticize us about, they say: freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of justice, security, justice. I say: Well, then, if you normally criticize them and have a doubt about the will of our government, the will of our party, then the chapters that I shouldn't take into my mouth are the 23rd, the 24th, the 24th, the chapters that I shouldn't take into account, the freedom of the judiciary, the freedom of the judiciary and other issues. In fact, there's something about these chapters that we can call first among the other ones, the primus inter pares. They form the heart of all chapters in terms of the acquish of the European Union, forming the brain, forming the center. And I say then: freedom of expression, freedom of judgment, freedom of the press, the issue of justice, independence of justice, judicial neutrality; and let them open chapters twenty-three, twenty-four, and we are ready to negotiate. And frankly, as Turkey's chief negotiator, they're going to see that we have the capacity to present the criteria that will close as soon as possible, but you're not going to open the chapters, and you're going to constantly criticize Turkey. Then how do we talk and how do we move forward?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0225par0238	You can start by getting your MPs out of jail, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0220par0239	So in the end, it's a matter of two people, not a one-sided situation.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0226par0240	We need democracy inside, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0220par0241	What they bring before us is this: "Lord, we also need criteria for opening chapters. " How will you talk about the matter from the moment you set a precondition to discuss a matter? Secondly, I don't want to give their names, I know many countries in Europe, all of them, I know the standards in many countries in more detail than others; there is no reason for them to become members of the European Union and not have Turkey, Turkey is a country that meets those criteria much more. So the question is: Yes, let's keep our will high, focus on what we're going to do, but let's encourage the others. Lawmakers in all parties, in the opening of chapters 23, 24, should pressure the European Parliament on the opening of chapters and the functioning of mechanisms between the European Union and Turkey, in the Parliament of the Council of Europe, in the Parliament of Parliament.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0227par0243	Is it going to work?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0220par0244	Turkey wants to open chapters, Turkey wants to open them and move forward.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0228par0245	We can't do that with Demirtaş in prison.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0220par0246	As a matter of fact, there will be elections in the European Council and the European Commission in the coming period. We're going to be facing a new table of changes. Macron's request for reform, as stated today, Schulz... usually wanted the foreign ministry when the SPD entered the coalition, this time they don't want the foreign ministry, they want the finance ministry, it's about these reforms. Thus, in 2019, a new picture will come along with the elections in the Commission and the Council. But we need to know this, and what we all have to fight together is that the area that we can't run in Europe is a field of political sociology. Political sociology is changing, now the central right and central left segregation is disappearing in Europe; pro-EU parties are emerging against it in a more racist, introverting race. In many elections, as it happened in the last German elections, we all saw, as the centre left and right parties were melting down, there was an extreme right-wing party that had not been able to enter the Parliament since World War II. We need to see what change in this political sociology is going to put us face-to-face. It is also important for our national interests: a strong European Union in Europe is necessary for the future of Turkey, a European Union on political values, democratic values, and Turkey's interests. In Europe, the picture that we will face again if this order of the European Union weakens will be a picture of ancient Europe, where some racists, fascists, come to power. All our kin here, our brethren, will face the pressures of these fascists, racists. There will be major turmoil in economic stability, as well as other crises in the Balkans issue. So there is a binary issue: On the one hand, we demonstrate our will to make good progress in these relations with Turkey-European Union relations, to make Turkey a strong member of the European Union. The second is that when we look at the European painting outside the relations of the Turkish-European Union, we also have to do some work with our friends, our friends there -- democrats in Europe, people in Europe who believe in these freedoms. Because really, see, according to a recent study that I have, ten years ago, the centre, the centre, the centre, the centre, the centre, the centre, the centre, the centre, the center, the center, the center, the left, the center, the center, the center, the center, the center, the center, and the racists, are now, unfortunately, the political area has become a genetic change, almost 70 percent of the right parties' agenda, and 80 percent of the agenda of the right parties has become the agenda of the center and central left parties. This is a dangerous painting. In this regard, we as the Ministry continue our work on how to form alliances with who, how to work with them. Of course, one of the most important issues is the issue of disorganized migration. Unfortunately, Europe has failed to give a good test in the face of this immigration issue stemming from Syria and Iraq. I'd like to give you a simple example: Years ago, when our President was Prime Minister, we went to Somalia. When we went to Somalia, there was no bakery, and I had a big list. That's how much the U.N. helps us here, and that's how much the European Union helps. I asked the minister of Somalia, what does it mean when you're getting so much help here that you don't even have a bakery? He said: "The authorities of the United Nations, the European Union, are afraid to come to Somalia. All the institutions that should be here are in Kenya. In fact, two thirds of those benefits go to their personnel costs, one third goes missing among the middlemen. Look, Turkey has helped refugees with billions of dollars, is doing its best to maintain the standards of the refugees' lives; the European Union has not yet received the first 3 billion euros in installments. We've sent 2.9 billion euros. They say, "There's nothing sent, it's just a commitment." There are 800,000 children, half of these children are educated, half of whom are required to be educated because there are terrorist organizations like DEAS, such as Al Qaeda, but with this aid mechanism of the European Union, these five-year-olds don't get paid until they're old enough to retire. So together, we have to increase that sensitivity. In order for these children to be trained, we need to show the sensitivity needed to do the European Union's part. The last time we saw it was the slave markets in Libya. See, the approach to protecting the borders of Europe with soldiers or protecting it with fences is unacceptable. When you keep those people out of Europe, they fall into slave markets. And I followed up on the rest of that story, for $300, $500, it's said that the DAESS terrorist organization bought all those slaves. Hence, we need to work more strongly on improving the sensitivity of Europe as to the test that needs to be given here, and we need to make our voice heard. Having these immigrants outside Europe with fences or soldiers does not mean that they will have an honorable life. Of course, one of our areas of discussion is the issue of terrorist organizations. Look, there's a very bad picture, and I'm telling them that when Turkey is attacked by the DAEŞ terrorist organization, all of its European buildings are reflected in the Turkish flag, it's shown solidarity with Turkey, but when Turkey is attacked by the PKK, you can't see the Turkish flag in any public building, you can't see that kind of solidarity. This is an open double standard, and this is one of the main issues of disagreement between us. The initiative of President of the European Parliament Tajani (EC) has only recently blocked access to the European Parliament of PKK members. When Schulz was Parliament Speaker, the PKK exhibits were opened in Parliament, and I would tell him, look, those pictures I saw walking down the hall, the people who killed innocent people in Turkey, the security forces in Turkey. If this Parliament were to become the center of democracy, you would have to lift this double standard. Such an approach has just been introduced during the Tajani period; it is late, but in this regard, it is still admirable for the introduction of this approach. But in this matter of terrorist organizations, we need to be clear: Look, let's put a picture in front of us, a very important picture: it's clear that many organisations from PKK terror organization to Fetullahist terrorist organization have been given open protection in many countries. Let's get this straight: Germany, for example, Turkey, Iraq... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear President, may I tidy up?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0229par0254	Mr. Secretary, I'm giving you an extension to complete your vows. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0220par0256	If Germany had a 1.295km border with Iraq-Suriye, such as Turkey, and had been attacked by military aircraft and tanks like members of the Fetullahist terrorist organization on July 15th, what measures would they have taken, and what measures would we have taken in the face of such a coup attempt, they would have criticised Turkey's measures. Look, lastly, the matter of the customs union... In the matter of the customs union, the European Union was essentially the first to ask for it. In their analysis of the World Bank and other places, they had an attitude that it needed to be updated. So we gladly agreed that the Council would authorise the Commission -- the Commission, asking the Council for authority, that authority -- but with Germany's latest revelation of this attitude, unfortunately, they turned this process, which is not a political issue, into a technical issue, and we will not update the customs union. Turkey is in no hurry, if they want to update the customs union, we're ready, or it's their own business. Here's the thing...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0230par0260	Finish your words, Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0220par0261	I am, Mr. President. In terms of our government, the process of full membership in the European Union is a strategic perspective, a state perspective that protects the goal of full membership. Other than that, we're reversing a number of dialogue mechanisms with Turkey, relations with Turkey, or relationships with Turkey, or relationships with Turkey, such as giving Turkey a special status. We don't want to hear a perspective outside the full membership perspective of Turkey. Other than that, I've made it clear and clear that each one of these offers is an immoral offer. I express once again my satisfaction with Turkey's entry into the European Union in the Supreme Assembly and the will to ensure that this accession process will take place. I say to all our friends that we will take advantage of their criticism, pay my respects to the High Council, and thank you all.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0231par0265	Thank you, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0232par0266	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0231par0267	Mr. Altay, you've entered the system.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0232par0268	Sir, I have a brief request.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0231par0269	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0232par0272	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to tell you in advance, it is not for us to accept that no external center is trying to teach Turkey, that Turkey should pass some tests on its own. The positive course of Turkey's European Union relationship is also the will of the Republican People's Party. However, Turkey has lost momentum in the world or European democratic leagues. Velev, which the government might say is that there is such a perception. It is necessary to stay as far away from the work and transactions that cause such perception. The non-opening of chapter 23 and 24 is about the belief that freedom of expression has been severely destroyed. Because I think it's a striking example of the state of freedom of expression in Turkey that we're still in the Parliament where 10 MPs are in prison, even though their crimes are not fixed and their convictions haven't been finalized. On the other hand, the fact that journalists are put in prisons simply because they have drawn their writings, as well as that academics are suspended from their jobs is a natural reason and an excuse for a negative opinion on freedom of expression in the European Union regarding freedom of expression in Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me, sir, I'll finish it right away.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0233par0278	Come in, Mr. Altay, complete, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0232par0279	We will, of course, be on the side of the government in the EU process, but we have to recommend that the government does not give the countries of the European Union and the lobby there an opportunity to create this negative perception of Turkey by doing business and transactions. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0233par0281	Mr. Altay, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0234par0282	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0233par0283	Mr. Lightning, you're going to have to...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0234par0284	I, too, according to the Civil Code of 60...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0233par0285	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0234par0287	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, we'd like to thank the Minister for his presentation. We had little hope that such a will still did not end in freedom, human rights, universal norms, the talks of chapters 23 and 24, which were forward-looking Turkey. But you can't convince Europeans to arrest two co-chairs and 10 MPs of a party with 6.5 million votes at the beginning of what you say, by assigning trustees to 94 municipalities, and you can't make them believe that 40 per cent of 80 million people in this country are run by mayors that they don't choose. A series such as this has nothing to do with the coup, on the contrary, you find it difficult to trap people who have spent their lives fighting these coupgers, deprive them of freedom, and to convince them that civil political will is in the way of democratic politics. Now, in a speech made by a member of the ruling party in particular to our party today, they supported the reintrospection process there. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0235par0292	Mr. Lightning, complete, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0234par0293	What we're doing is that we've wronged 80 million people by covering up the evils inside if we don't make a statement in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, as if there's still nothing, against all the practices of the government that I've considered and the human rights violations that I can't count on. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0236par0295	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0237par0296	Mr. Özdemir, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0236par0297	I want words according to 60.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0237par0298	What's the demand?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0236par0299	Mr. Secretary, in his speech, referring to my speech, I would like to say that I consider Turkey-EU relations a matter of necessity... and that is not the way I see it.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0237par0300	Here, I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0236par0302	Thank you, Mr. President. He said I expressed Turkey-EU relations as a matter of need. I'm here to imply that the president and the ministers of your cabinet have made such statements. So, Mr. President and members of the Cabinet have reduced the need. I've been standing here working on inconsistencies and periodical explanations in my explanations. Of course, the process until 2007 is important, Mr. Secretary, and the efforts are very valuable. We care about them, and being a strong and respected member of the EU is, of course, our priority. You've been working on racist and right-wing populist rhetoric here, and I've made it clear in my speech. We don't accept racist and populist rhetoric anywhere in the world, and of course we do. In your statement about the Moroccans, the 23rd chapter is the judiciary, the basic rights, and the 24th chapter is justice, freedom and security. Of course, we would like most to open these chapters, because the leader of this country's main opposition party has walked 430km demanding justice. The whole world has seen how important these chapters and the concept of justice are. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0238par0309	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0239par0312	It may have been misunderstood. I didn't say that you said that. You brought it up, and I gave you my opinion on it, you know, whether it's necessary or not. You use the sentences carefully, I deliver this, you didn't say that. I've come up with an explanation for whether or not you've created a need for it or a win-win relationship.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0240par0313	Yeah, and I asked you how you saw it, and you answered.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0239par0314	Yes, so it wasn't a special assessment of you. And let's not make the same mistake as the Moroccans: I mean, it's not like they're opening chapters because of the following issues in Turkey. On the contrary, unfortunately, it's an argument used by the Commissioner in charge of enlargement in the European Commission to produce a double standard against Turkey. I'd like to tell all our friends that if there's anything to talk about, there's an opening, that doesn't mean closing the chapter. There's no prerequisite for opening beans. Now that they've made it up against Turkey, let's not make that technical mistake. The other is what the HDP MP said. I mean, it's a very detailed and long conversational issue, but as someone who's worked on it, I'd like to say that if you're going to fight for democracy, don't do it.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0241par0317	Don't do what? Shouldn't we come to the council?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0239par0318	I'm not saying that, if that's what you understand, there's nothing to say. What I'm saying is very clear and clear. Look, guys, you're only showing one side of the picture. We've all been through these processes together in Turkey. So now that Catalonia -- there's no terrorist organization in the middle, there's no terrorist activity -- there's been a breach of the constitution, legal action against these MPs has been launched. This is the right of all sovereign states, and it's done to protect democracy and the state of law. I'm telling you clearly, friends, that this is appropriate for the acquish of the European Union, and the authorities of the European Union agree. We have put our backs to the terrorist organization in Turkey. One MP will sign much more of all the actions within Batasuna Decision, which has been approved by the European Court of Human Rights, and then it will not be processed, and then it will be brought before us, to the High Assembly as if there was nothing, as if there was no context, no historicality. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Friends, if there's going to be a fight for democracy, you don't start at the end of the sentence.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0242par0323	Are you going to continue your statement, Minister, should I give you an extension?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0239par0324	Please let me finish, Mr. President, this is important.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0242par0325	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0239par0326	So when this comes in front of me, I'll say this very clearly, friends -- on every floor of the European Union -- and I've never seen anyone argue with me about it: whether it's a congressman or not, terrorism is a red line of democracy, and the process of violating it is that clear. If democracy is to be fought, then this whole part of the story will be skipped and there will only be a judgment on the final part of the story... yes, there is: we will show the precision we can do to protect rights and freedoms, but if anyone wants to see what kind of transactions there are in the matter of terrorism, which stemm from terrorist organizations, there is a lot more to be done in the European Court of Human Rights than there is to be done with the European Court of Human Rights. Is he guilty or not guilty? It's not my job to judge him, but I'd like to stress that the approach to condemn the processes of this matter all over again has nothing to do with the defense of democracy. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0243par0330	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0244par0331	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0243par0332	Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0244par0333	Now, Mr. Secretary, I place my back on the terrorist organization that our co-Chair has never used. He has condemned and harassed our entire group by saying what he said. I want to talk about bullying according to the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0243par0334	Here you go, Mr. Lightning. Let's not make a new tease.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0245par0336	What about October 6th, 7th?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0246par0339	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I wish the last sentence you said would be a whole political power, including the President, in its own way. Look, you're saying that the judge decides. But before the trial, the President decided in Hamburg on 9 July, he said that our co-chair was a murderer, before the trial. So far, for four hundred and ten days, our co-chair hasn't been brought to trial. Here's the legal injury. Look, I'm not talking about starting a new polemic. Just as we're looking at one side of the story and judging it for you, you're looking at it in the cold face of the government. We don't see the 100-year-old Kurdish issue as sociologically as you do, we don't see the reasons and the reasons for its development as you do, we're acting with a different imagination, organized at a separate party because we don't see its methodology or its methodology or its methods as you do. Otherwise, look, let me tell you, Mr. Secretary, who is now considered a terrorist organization by the PYD? This is a very different discussion. Apart from the political power and the P.Y.D.P.D. you see there as a terrorist organization, even the President of Syria does not see it as a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0247par0343	Assad made a statement today.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0246par0344	Russia, you're acting together, it doesn't consider it a terrorist organization. Iran doesn't see it as a terrorist organization. No country of the European Union sees it as a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0248par0346	Get over it, get over it. Come on in.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0249par0347	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0246par0348	Now, looking from here, I'm sticking my back out to a terrorist organization that's been said against the PYD. The sentence is the product of a power and a superior perspective.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0250par0349	It's a P.D. terrorist organization, isn't it?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0246par0350	Assad does not see the Syrian Union Party, which is organised within that country as an Assad terrorist organization. Where are we gonna get that?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0251par0351	Assad said himself, it's important that he consider it a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0246par0352	Otherwise, because we look at the development of the Kurdish issue and the cause and the solution proposal and the method differently than you do, you're taking the terrorist organization as wide as you can... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You don't stop journalists and academics from accusing them of terrorism. This is what the world and Europe do not understand, what they do not want to understand, what they find difficult to understand. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0252par0357	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0253par0361	Dear friends, friends who have been here since 2002 know. In this House -- my ethnicity is Turkish -- I gave the first speech on the Kurdish issue, and it wasn't so easy at the time to have this conversation. I also know what kind of news was sent to me by some military custody representatives at the time. That's where your president lived. And I'll tell you something else: there was not even a word from the HDP that had been said, "Suriye Kurds", but perhaps they didn't even know it, at a dinner in Aleppo, when our President went as Prime Minister at the time, there was also an Assadman of Assad, who now appeared to CNN International. Our president said: "I'm asking you for something special. In your country, the Kurds of Syria, these brothers, they don't even have a record, they don't even have civil rights. I was at that table, I was at that dinner, I heard it with my own ears. He said three things about doing reforms, and one of them said, "Give the Kurds citizenship, save them from this deprivation." So let me be clear, my friends: if someone came up here and expressed an extremely conservative political view within the scope of the PKK's terrorist organization, the opinion of our people, or the opinion of the Kurds, would not have been political. The second issue is that if someone is having an argument about the PKK or the NYD as a terrorist organization, they have been betrayed from the outside as an oppressed people throughout history. For the first time, I am defending some Kurds, especially Syria in the Middle East. They are being betrayed from within by terrorist organizations and politicians who call themselves Kurds. And what we need to see is that by creating a new Baas model through these terrorist organizations, Kurdish children have found that imperialism... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...they're being driven to the front again in line with their output. The Kurdish boys are fighting some power of attorney over there...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0254par0368	Congressmans, if Mr. Secretary demands it, we'll give it to him. Take your time, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0253par0369	If you'll excuse me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0254par0370	I'll give you one more minute to finish your vows.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0253par0371	So that's what I'm saying, as soon as the PKK comes up with an approach to the terrorist organization and the P.Y.D. terror organization to be justified in any way, the word "democracy" comes together. This is the greatest injustice to those Kurdish children, Kurdish youth, Kurdish children, young people's future. Look, Assad made a statement today. What's he saying? Those who are not with me, including the Kurds, but fight by hiring others are traitors, he says. This is a very old game in the Middle East. One day tomorrow, those states who used them as legionaries in the field today will also turn their backs, but I assure you that while some of your friends are in Turkey provocaturing the Kobani, this power opened the doors and protected 100,000 Kurdish brothers on a day. So the issue is: Turkish win, Turkish win, Kurdish win, Arab win, wherever we are, terrorist organizations are almost opposite him. It's as simple as that. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0254par0374	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0255par0375	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0254par0376	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0255par0377	Mr. Secretary has expressed my lack of political seriousness from a conservative point of view...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0256par0378	That's right.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0255par0379	...and he picked on me so openly.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0257par0380	You'll take that for a tease.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0255par0381	Of course.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0258par0382	He made a metaphor.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0257par0383	Here you go, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Lightning, please don't let us challenge a new challenge.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0259par0386	Now, Mr. Secretary, if it comes to speaking from such an insulting point of view, we don't stand back nor do we stand back from doing so, but we speak civilizedly here, as a matter of family decency and social courtesy, and I'd like to say that I have never accepted your criminalized sentences, such as a conservative perspective. Another thing: Why don't you in Aleppo, when the Kurds aren't demanding any rights in Syria, when you're living as underprivileged as you can today when you face the massacres? That's where the real punch line is. You're not aware that Kurd has an identity...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0260par0388	It's being requested for everyone. It's not just for the Kurds, it's for everyone.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0261par0389	This country has taken care of the Kurds. We didn't do the massacre.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0262par0390	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0263par0391	...now, in a very clear way, Kobani has fallen, he will fall. He has shown no reflex to the people there to defend themselves against the barbarian army as far as they can.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0264par0392	That's a lie, too!
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0263par0393	...but he came here to escape the massacre, and he collapsed here, and he embraced them not only in the central government, but in the DBP municipalities there -- most of the municipalities today -- so, by the logic of a colonial governor, the trustees were appointed, and the governments were removed from his hands today -- despite the high will of the people there -- there was no, there was no, we did this in the past period. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] And last but not least, Mr. Secretary. It's not about the last three or five years or five months. Look, I've been giving examples for days. In view of the bloody policies of the 90s, the language, education, culture, literature institutions established by Kurdish scholars, scholars, angels, etc. were shut down, magazines closed, newspapers, televisions were shut down. None of this was built during your reign. You have shut down the publications of the Anters of Moses, and of the Abdurrahman Dürres. We're having trouble figuring out where you've dealt with them by linking them to the oversecure or PKK. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0265par0397	You wouldn't understand!
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0266par0398	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Secretary has requested a word, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please, Mr. Secretary, don't let this turn into a cross-matching point.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0267par0403	No, Mr. President, I don't insult anyone, and it's the first time I've seen the word "conservative" taken offense.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0268par0404	No, the concept of insertness is an insult.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0267par0405	If you look at a very simple dictionary, you can clearly see what this is. I'd listen to the speaker, even if I didn't agree with his ideas until today. Of course, there's one thing that's clear here, and it's been stopped from having identity. Friends, on the contrary, I would like to say that we, citizens of the Republic of Turkey, are a party that has paid the price and fought for the removal of the pressure and erosion of our Kurdish identity and Kurdish citizens in order to end these policy of assimilation, rejection and denial policies.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0269par0408	Minister, why did you shut down the Kurdish Institute? Tell me that, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0267par0409	We're doing this in terms of Turkish, Kurdish, Turkmen, one nation. If some of our citizens have been wronged in the past period, this has been removed, if this is unfair, this has been removed, and this has been done within a general perspective of democracy. Look, all the documents here... there's such a thing as the Internet.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0270par0411	Oh, God!
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0267par0412	During the Kobani incident, Kurdish groups there made statements to different news agencies, particularly Rudaw. They said we want to go into Kobaniye -- these are different Kurdish groups -- to help the people there, but the PKK and the PYD are blocking us.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0271par0414	What is it?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0267par0415	First, to establish a one-way rule there, the second is that people almost die here so that we can do our propaganda as a terrorist organization. So if this is how it's done, I wish some of our friends would come out here and argue about the Kurdish issue, the education of Kurdish teenagers, how these young people would have an honorable future, and we would have listened. As citizens of one nation, let's discuss the measures we're going to take on these. But instead, here's what we object to... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0272par0419	Please complete your statement, Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0267par0420	Okay, Mr. President, thank you for your patience. What we object to here is that we don't insult anyone, and we don't look at anyone from the top. Oh, I'll look over, and I'll speak like this. If anyone says so, let him speak, and I have nothing to fear from him. I can have this discussion by morning. I can decipher it much more clearly, but the question is whether it's the future of Kurdish children, whether they have a good education life, a good future, or whether it's the creation of political arguments to get these children to write as legionaries to some terrorist organizations who abuse Kurdish.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0273par0423	Do you accept primary language education, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0267par0424	Here we act with the awareness that all the oppressed children of this geography, all the oppressed people, are brothers. Take one out of him, make him a legioner of this terrorist organization, take one out of him, make him a legioner of this terrorist organization! This is a political stance that is foreign to geography, which serves imperial policies in this geography. We deny it, we deny it.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0274par0426	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0275par0427	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0274par0428	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0275par0429	Now, where do you want it?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0276par0430	Don't hold it, sit down.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0277par0431	Don't hold it, you don't have to hold it.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0275par0432	Look, you're making a direct promise to the Minister without asking anything. He publicly picked on me, accused me of making political arguments for terrorist organizations.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0278par0433	No, no teasing, absolutely not. No hard feelings, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0279par0434	Mr. Yıldırım, I didn't promise the Minister the opening, he demanded it. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0280par0437	Thank you. Now, Mr. Secretary, look, let me draw attention to something that we often bring up in our discussions with your group administration. You can honestly say: "We are a political authority that behaves according to the spirit of time and is not based on principle norms, but on the spirit of time, but on the spirit of time, which can be changed conjunctually, and in this context also deals with the Kurdish issue. I take it with a little understanding, but I don't agree with it. Now, there are social scientists in this party who have spent years solving the Kurdish issue, there are human rights advocates, there are people who have run the property, and I'm sure there are people who still believe that if they don't get passed over so much in political power today, they won't be able to solve the Kurdish issue for another hundred years. But it's today's main problem, not the ones who are so well-adjusted with the Kurdish issue, but perhaps the cities of Kurdish geography, sociology, that people who have no access to the problem today are acting with the mind of the hawk policies of political power, is the main issue of political power. Otherwise, we didn't have a radical approach to condemning 316 MPs with all their boards. The most acquishors of the Kurdish issue have no authority today, but the fact that those who do not understand the Kurdish issue are now the patrons is one of today's main issues, and the political power has been able to produce actors in the spirit of time and conjunctive, and it is a fundamental contradiction that these actors will not be able to develop any concept other than the security policies that are the most foreign to the problem, which will not be able to develop rhetoric, action, arguments, and Kurdish people who can't. Otherwise, we are confident that this will never be resolved with this method. Sooner or later, it will be a matter of rights, and it will be solved again through dialogue and peace. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit05spe0281par0441	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Congressmans, I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0281par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission and the government are in place. Mr. Secretary, I believe you have a request for a statement.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0282par0007	Mr. President, before the hearing was closed, there was an argument going on, and the discussion was closed for me. I see that there is no situation where we can agree in any way and we can have a conversation. I'd like to inform you that my speech is a Batasuna decree approved by the European Court of Human Rights. This is a clear and guiding decision on the border of democracy with terrorist organisations and democracy, and in terms of the European acquistion, the Court of Human Rights is considered to be a drunk. It contains these kinds of facts: Batasuna Party spokesman's statement praising violence, Batasuna executives' participation in the ETA terrorist organization rally in Venezuela, Batasuna's refusal to condemn threats made by the ETA terrorist group, the ETA terrorists are awarded by municipalities under Batasuna. It's an important, guiding drink, I think, in terms of the withdrawal of the border between violence, terrorism and democracy. I submit this to the knowledge of the High Council. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0283par0011	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gaytancioğlu, you've entered the system, do you have a request?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0284par0013	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0283par0014	Before you stand, please pass on your request.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0284par0015	I have a statement to make regarding the president of the Edirne Ataturkist Thought Association, an investigation has been launched against him.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0283par0016	Here you go, Mr. Gaytancioğlu. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0284par0019	Mr. President, thank you. I've just received word that Edirne has been offered a reprimand by Edirne National Education Directorate and has been issued to the President of the Ataturkist Thought Association. The Ataturcist Thought Association is a community association that works for the benefit of the public, which defends the principles and revolutions of Ataturk at every opportunity. I think it's wrong to give him such a reprimand. And he was given the punishment for his politics. Those who belong to the Ataturcist Thought Society or those who belong to other associations can explain all kinds of opinions within democracy, and should be free to do so. And from here, I condemn Edirne National Education Director. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0285par0022	Thank you, Mr Gaytancioğlu. Mr. Secretary will certainly consider it. 1) Ministry of the European Union's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2016 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) Ministry of National Education Central Management Budget for 2018 2) National Ministry of Education 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Death, Choosing and Responsibility Office [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for 2018 is the chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) Metric, Selection and Placement Centre Chairman 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The Board of Higher Education 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2016 Central Management Final Account Congressmans, on behalf of the government, it is now the turn of our Minister of National Education, Mr. Ismet Yilmaz. Mr. Yilmaz, come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0286par0049	Thank you. Reverend President, I have made a commitment to the National Ministry of Education, the Board of Higher Education, the Chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement, and to talks on the Central Management Budget Act for the Universitys in the year 2018 and the Central Central Management Computation Act for 2016. On this occasion, I salute you. First, my condolences to Mesut Yılmaza and her family. And Allah is Most Forbearing, and He does not put any soul to the test. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, education is a process that is constantly changing in terms of the age and evolving in terms of savings and experiences. The primary goal of education is to raise individuals who are equipped with the skills required by the knowledge society, who have internalized the universal values of mankind with national culture. As the Ministry of National Education, we want everyone to reach education and education under equal conditions, to gain the knowledge, skill, attitude and behavior required by the age, to grow up to be entrepreneurs, innovative, language skills, high levels of communication and learning, self-confidence and responsibility, healthy and happy individuals. We view a qualified education and the equality of opportunities for everyone in education as our constant and constant goal. As a result of the work done so far, we've solved major infrastructure and access problems. Mr. President, our budget for education has been designated as $134 billion 727 million in Turkish dollars, which amounted to about 18 per cent of budget costs in 2018. As part of the budget, we are doing common education and teaching services that include almost all parts of society. This amount is more than 5.8 per cent of national income. Although some orators who have come up here have expressed that the share of national income education is very small, the share of national income education in the 1980s is 1.2 per cent; the share of national income education in the 1990s is 2.2 in the 1990s; the share of 2.8 in 2002 today is 5.8. If access to the Ministry of Development's website can be seen very clearly; 5.8/1/ from the public sector, 0.7/ is from the private sector. It is not included in the Ministry of Development's account, but it does not include the following markers: the land prices assigned by the Ministry of Finance to build schools. If the Treasury didn't give us the land, if they sold it, if they gave it somewhere else, would it be a source? It would. Would it support education if he gave it to another place, not to the source, but to the education? Sure. The value of the land assigned by the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs to build schools... The other day in Ankara, we laid the foundation of a thousand classroom schools, and the land we bought was from the Ministry of Forestry, and we must put the values of these. Again, each year, we have additional investment demands besides the main investment, which is acceptable to the Ministry of Development. You have to add them. Again, from the Social Aid and Solidarity Fund, under the administration of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, all families in need of education material are given out of our budget. Again, our students are given lunch allowances. Again, elementary school students are given free books. All their expenses are paid for by him. As part of a conditional education grant, the amount invested in the mothers' account is $5.8 billion. Again, we welcome the girls from this foundation to build their dorms. This is where we get disabled students to move to schools and go home from schools. You have to add these. Again, the Ministry of Labour and Social Security has assigned 60,000 personnel to our Ministry as part of the Community Benefit Work to make our schools safer and cleaner, and the sums paid for them are spent for education. That's got to be included. Again, milk is taken from the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting. The price of milk is paid from the Ministry of Agriculture, so that it may feed our children healthier. Again, it's for raisins. We'll hand out raisins to about 6 million of our students, but it's from the Department of Agriculture's budget. That's got to be included. People with special administrations know it's not major cities, but it's a 20 per cent education cut from the budget of the county's private administrations. You have to add these. It's not included in the calculations. And then there's the citizens, we have the benefactors, and sometimes he does classes, sometimes he does schools. So you have to add these. The PTAs have incomes, and the cafeteria revenues are added. Again, there are grants in exchange for some projects. If you put them on top of each other, certainly the amount that Turkey spends on education... the average of OECD countries is 5.2 per cent of the national income, and now we're dividing a resource over 5.8. Why? Education is Turkey's top priority. If you care about education, it means that you care about every area, and if you neglect education, you've neglected every area. In this school year, over 65,000 of our schools, we train more than 17 million, 18 million students with over 1 million teachers, more than 50 million when we add their parents, and all of Turkey does when we add their brothers. Therefore, whatever decision we make regarding education is of no concern to all of Turkey's 80 million. During the time of our governments, mandatory training has been extended from eight to twelve years. During this process, significant increases have been made in schooling in each level of education and in the average training period. We care a lot about girls' schooling. If you say, "What is the priority of this government?," it's called increasing the girls' schooling rate. I'd also like to give you the numbers after we implement this 4+4+4 reform. At primary school in 2002, the net number of girls was 88 per cent and now 91.24 per cent in primary school, 95.76 per cent in secondary school. In secondary school, the girls' schooling rate in 2002 was 42.97 percent clear; now 82.38 percent are the same as men. The girls' schooling rate was 12.17 per cent in 2002, now more than 44.41 per cent; men's schools are higher than that; girls' schooling rate is higher than men's. After the 4+4+4 came in... when did we start this? 2012-2013. Well, then, I'd like to give you some background information. Pre-school education in Turkey... perhaps others have seen it, but for the first time in 1953... let's prepare the pre-school school material while Minister of National Education Tevfik Fart - let God make his place a paradise. When? 1953. From 1953 to 2002, what is the schooling rate in preschool? About 10%. I went to the Army this week -- but everyone can look in their district, in their district -- where the schooling rate is 3 percent, now 53 percent in the Army. We have military lawmakers, he can ask his governor, his own union, his own manager. For God's sake, We have given many times over everything that those before us had done. We're in front of Europe at almost all values, and I say that very strongly. Preschool education was the only area we were behind in Europe. Teacher, we were behind in pre-school education in Europe, and it's still going on... for him and for us to get pre-school education... I'll give you those numbers in a little while. I went to Hakkari, and you're going to go, please ask, the percentage of pre-school education caught in Bitlis, the proportion caught in the pre-school education in Mardin, the proportion caught in Antalya, Erzincan, Sivasta, all over Turkey... look, in the past 50 years, we've caught a rate that hasn't been imagined in 60 years. Education reform, which used to be...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0287par0068	There was no pre-school education 50 years ago, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0286par0069	I grew up in a county. There was no high school in my district, where I grew up, where high school students in my district either went to Kayseri High School or to Sivas, where they went to Sivas High School. At a time when you didn't have high school, when elementary school and secondary school were not enough, as someone who studied in a class of 70, as someone who studied high school in a class of 70, this basic education was mandatory, primary education. How are you going to provide pre-school education that is not part of mandatory education when you cannot provide the infrastructure required for mandatory education for your children? So we've come to a much better place in our time. Before this 4+4+4 reform, five-year-old pre-school education was 38 per cent net, and now we're up 57 per cent, which is 71.3% in girls. 98% in elementary school was now 91 per cent net, 92.98 per cent in secondary school now 95.76 per cent in secondary school, 69.31 per cent in secondary school, now 82.38 per cent in high school, 38.61 per cent in higher education, 44.41 per cent net, 98.52 per cent in Brussels.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0287par0071	Is that because your parents are asking you to have their kids read?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0286par0072	There's nothing wrong with it. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we've made a new arrangement in the transition system from basic education to secondary school. Some of the speakers have said that the education system has been changed as each minister arrives, but the only change in the education system is 4+4+4. Other than that, from OKS to SBS to TEOG to TEOG, from TEOG to TEOG to high school registration is not a system change, but a measurement is applied by different means. That measurement is not the whole of the education system, it's just an element.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0288par0074	He'll complete each other, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0286par0075	Together with this arrangement, we begin an application in which our schools are associated with each other in the framework of mandatory education that our students can move to an upper education institution without having to worry about any test. In this way, each of our students will be able to go to any school in the interest of education and skill. Again, as another orator removes this TEOG (TEOG), it's as if the decision had suddenly been made for our students to go to the nearest school of their own, I'd like everyone to look at the Tenth Development Plan. The Tenth Development Plan began in 2012, was accepted in both our Parliament and published in July. There are residency commissions -- everyone look -- what's called those decisions is not a new issue in making sure that our children go to school in their own neighborhood. So, how are you gonna get all your students to go to school in your own neighborhood because you're taking tests? You can't. He's at work, next to the school in his neighborhood, but he can't send the kid to school next door if he's got a score of 10km, 10km, 10km. So when the report of the residency commission on the basis of the Tenth Development Plan will be examined, the demand is that our children go to school in their own neighborhood -- just like that. In our budget again -- one of the students or a few -- actually 5.8 percent of the national income, so we're dividing 38 percent of the budget, but the point is: right, thank you, but most of it goes to staff. I have 904,000 teachers, 904,000. When we arrived, we had 524,000 teachers, and now I have 904,000 teachers. Has the number of students increased as much as the teacher? No. One of the things that used to be wanted for quality education is the number of students per teacher. When we arrived, each teacher received 28 students, and now 17 students began to fall. With this, they are close to each other, both in Korea and in England. However, whatever it takes for modern education in Turkey, we have the number of students per student or student per teacher, but now there is a criteria on the basis of whether the fee paid to the teacher is investment spending or current spending. The measurement there should be based on something like this.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0289par0077	Cari, I mean.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0286par0078	Is the benefit of spending continuous or not? In this framework, all expenditures in education are regarded as investment spending, as the benefit of increasing human capital power provides continuity. Build the building, no education; bring the Internet, no education; fill it with smart boards; no education; the essential element of education is the teacher. Therefore, not even these buildings, but if there's a teacher, there's training. An investment in the teacher is a real investment in education. There were over 500,000 teachers, now over 904,000 teachers in our national education family -- along with 1 million teachers in private schools -- trying to give our children the most modern, scientific, most democratic education.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0290par0079	Mr. Secretary, what's the number of students per teacher in elementary school, middle school and high school?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0286par0080	There is, but there isn't one that's the busiest, so it's about five million each, five in elementary school, five in high school, five in high school, maybe three or five, all the same.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0290par0081	In total, it wouldn't be right. Elementary school and middle school are separate.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0286par0082	But there's trouble in elementary school, which is the number of students, and also needs double education -- I'll give it to you in a minute. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, again, we would like to give our children a quality education. In order to provide quality training, one of the things you need to do is bring technology to education. What is it to connect technology with education? We want our children to be able to access the information highways under their teacher's guidance if they want to. So what do you need for that? We need to make Internet connections to the information highways at every school. Over 1 million extremes were installed and over 432 000 interactive boards were installed under the FATIH Project, and over 1,400,000 tablets were distributed to our teachers and students. One of our deputies -- now, many of them have left -- said the few that are left now. However, each tablet of computers is actively monitored by our Ministry, and is currently being used actively at 1 million 375 thousand. In the coming period... as you all know -- we thank you forever -- this law has passed. What's the law? As part of the FATHIH Project, which will be handed over to the Ministry of National Education, smart boards, tablet computers or computers, or components of them -- let's say -- will be exempt from all taxes when they are handed over to the Ministry of National Education. So let's not inflate, let's not raise these prices, let's buy services at more reasonable prices, we'll come up with a new approach, and we'll buy services. Ten to ten years. One other thing...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0291par0086	I told the Minister of National Education before you, let's go to a school, and if the FATIH Project works, I promise I'll resign.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0286par0087	I promise... well...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0291par0088	But no choice. We'll get up together, go to school.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0292par0089	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0286par0090	Haydar Akar, look, let's go...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0292par0091	Minister, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0286par0092	Mr. President, there's a curriculum change in basic education and middle school coding class. We will continue to distribute keyboards instead of tablets in the coming hours that allow these lessons to be implemented. Again, we support the private sector in education. By the time we arrived, there were about 200,000 students going to private school, and now over 1,300,000, and we support students going to private schools. 305,128 students are benefiting from teaching aid, along with 75,000 students we will support for the first time this year. Since 2014-2015, more than 520,000 students have benefited from teaching aid. Reverend President, members of lawmakers, our congressman just asked what would happen if you gave the number of students per teacher as a distinction in elementary school and secondary school. 17 in elementary school, 13 in secondary school. For him, I mean, elementary school is a little bit more. In every part of our country, we've brought the teaching rate closer together. Look, again, the Tenth Development Plan covers between 2014 and 2018. There, the report says there are no teachers left in the southeast. When I went to Hakkari the other day, the principal said: " I have never held a teachers' board meeting twice with the same teachers. Why? If a teacher changes every year and a half, it is natural to complain about the quality of education. So, what's to be done? The teachers we send there need to stay at least for a certain amount of time, to get to know their students, so that they can get a healthier, quality education. We've appointed over 584 grand teachers. In the Eastern Anatolian region, the teacher's fulrum is over 92 per cent, over 90 per cent in the southeast. Where is the most need for teachers? In Istanbul, if you say so. The teacher's fulcrum is around 85% in Marmara. We've also improved their rights. In 2002, a new teacher was on duty 15 hours a week with an extra class, and on November 1st, everybody knows that she was getting $635. How much for the dollar? Look, under $380, like $378. Now, again, the same teacher, a new teacher, gets $3,618 a month with 15 extra hours a week. Here, $3.8? So if he gives you dollars, it's over $900, but one's under $400, and the other's over $900. The European Union, you know, had a crisis at this time. In England, the public teachers' salary was reduced by 5 per cent in France, 10 per cent in France, 18 per cent in Greece; a discount in Italy, a discount in Denmark, a discount in Portugal. It's probably one hand in the world that raises a teacher's salary more than twice as high in dollars, and one of them is Turkey. Is that enough? It's not enough. Hopefully, as Turkey increases its national income in the coming period, we will improve the rights of our teachers as we spend more of its national income on education. Again, we give our teachers an education allowance for the school year at the beginning of each school year. And this is the last time we pay $1.050. Again, the Teacher's Strategy Document, which is the road map of our teachers, was a document of many years of study, published this year in the Official Gazette. These three bases are based on the foundation. One is to make the right ones teachers; two is to give the teacher the proper service education of what you do; three is to raise the teacher's reputation, perception in public. The latest -- my friends often brought us criticisms from OECD, or from outside reports -- has a graph published by OECD. There was a study that said, "Who wants to be a teacher over 15? I want to be a teacher in Turkey. " If you enter, OECD. You can also see this on the organ site. This shows where the teacher's perception is in Turkey. So we say that the teacher is the leader of the community, whether you go to a village or in a village, if you want to know what that community or that village thinks about something, there are three people that you need to get your opinion on: the village chief, the teacher, and the minister of religion. If you get the opinion of these three, at least you'll know what that neighborhood or that settlement thinks about it. Again, a professor from Istanbul University -- if you go to Google again, if you write "proper professions" there -- has done a study again -- which professions have a reputation in Turkey? The doctors are in the 1st place; the judges are in the 2nd place; the teachers are in the 3rd place; the teachers are in the 4th place; the teachers are in the 4th place. Governors, trustees, generals follow the teacher; the study is not mine, but a study by Istanbul University. Therefore, teachers have excellent reputations in Turkey. Look, for a quality education, one of the essentials is that education infrastructure needs to be completed. We did over 282,000 classes. The number of students per class dropped from 36 to 24 to 23 in primary school throughout Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We're gonna drop the two-way training. For that, when our Prime Minister instructed us, we needed 77,000 classrooms, along with a year's courses, we now need 58,000 classrooms, but we also have 45,000 classes. When these are completed -- by a very small margin -- we will eliminate bilateral education along with the state-national cooperation in the coming period. Mr. President, I've told you about pre-school education, but I'd like to give you the number again because all studies, scientific studies have shown that one year of preschool education is more successful than none; two years of pre-school education, a year of pre-school education, and three years of pre-school education is more successful than two years. So in this period, hopefully, in the last two years, with the Prime Minister's instructions, we have started a reform in pre-school education, a major mobilization. We've established 37 pilot counties in Turkey, paying for paperwork for pre-school students in these provinces as Ministry. When mothers send their children to pre-school education, we support them as a conditional education benefit. But one number: there are 320,000 students in pre-school education in 2002 -- about 10 percent -- now there are over 1 million 479 thousand students. From 2015 to 2016, there were 117,000 students increased, and more than 153,000 increased from 2016 to 2017. These figures need to be looked at only: this increase in the number of children, or over 100,000, is equal to the number of children in Greece and Switzerland, and more than 1.5 times the age of 5 years in Finland and Denmark. So over the last two years, over 26,000 children have met with the school. Again, we support 40 lira for pre-school education for the girls and 35 lira for the boys for the mothers' financial aid. Mr. President, I'd like to tell you a few things about our friends' statements. Number one: something was said about unqualified education. We're saying it's not true, it's very clear, we're claiming it. If there was such unqualified training, you'd be...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0293par0107	We'd be number one in PISA.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0286par0108	I'll tell you, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0293par0109	In reading and writing...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0286par0110	No, it's very clear, you couldn't have grown 11 percent. Look, come in, the BBC news site...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0293par0111	Mr. Secretary, for God's sake!
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0286par0112	What does high growth in the third quarter of Turkey mean in the economy on December 12th? The idea, the opinion of a foreign economist named Timothy Ash. There is a strong banking system in Turkey, there is a healthy public finance, there is an advantageous population structure, there is an effective culture for business production, there is financial incentives, there is the government's successful Credit Guarantee Fund. There is not all this pen without education.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0293par0114	But none of them were trained in your time.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0286par0115	Another thing: exporting.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0293par0116	Today's bureaucrats, today's staff, were not trained in your time.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0286par0117	It doesn't matter, we'll get there, we'll get there.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0294par0118	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0286par0119	The export was $36 billion, and now it's over 155 billion from our training, from our training, from the engineer who produced it.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0295par0120	Mr. Secretary, 10 percent of the schools are qualified. You said so yourself for high school.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0296par0121	True, but all the times before you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0286par0122	Well, if you're coming to that, then we're coming to this: there was a successful education in Turkey before Turkey's infrastructure was ready, we see the results later, now we've completed the infrastructure, so shouldn't education be better? (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) No doubt about it. Look, about the education system in Turkey again...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0296par0124	We'll see in 50 years.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0286par0125	There's no doubt in my mind that we owe it to our teachers. Oktay Sinanoglu, who graduates from high school, goes to America, starts in the third grade, third grade. Why? Your high school education is good. Again, St. Sancar, who received the Nobel Prize, says: "I really owe it to many countries to receive the Nobel Prize, but the country I owe the most is Turkey, because I studied elementary school, secondary school, high school in Savur.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0297par0128	Saint Sancar didn't study in your time.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0286par0129	So make no mistake, Turkey's education was good yesterday, and it was better today. We trust our teachers.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0298par0130	What are we going to measure with, Mr. Secretary, what are we going to measure the quality of education? We can't measure it with one Saint Sancar.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0286par0131	Again, another thing, everyone thinks that one type of person is raised in training. In education, you can't raise one type of person even if you want to. Those who have two children know that you will not be able to raise your two children even if you want them to be. The same father, the same mother, who can't even raise children in the same culture, can't raise 18 million people in different environments, in different environments, in different environments, whatever education you give them, like a tornado.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0299par0132	If you teach modern education...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0286par0133	In other words, the PISA Director says that the Turkish education system did not adapt to the world. We say so, because we say that it does not fit in the world, we have to change the curriculum.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0300par0134	You guys change all the time.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0286par0135	Look, I'm reading, Reverend President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0300par0136	The curriculum keeps changing, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0301par0137	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0302par0138	Six ministers have changed in 15 years.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0303par0139	1. National Education, 1939...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0301par0140	Mr. Star, please, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0303par0141	Mr. President, I assume you'll extend my time with these interferences because...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0301par0142	I'll take that under advisement, Mr. Secretary. Please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0304par0144	You change curriculums almost every school year.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0305par0145	Now, one. National Education Centre, Hasan Ali Yücel Minister of National Education. I'm reading his speech in the classroom: ▪ Middle school teachers say that children from elementary school are weak, and high school students make the same complaints go to middle school. Colleges and higher schools insist that our high school children are weak at one point or another. Life also complains about colleges and high school graduates. How should we establish the existing teaching system so that every part of it knows about each other? So, what does he say we do? Let's update the curriculum. He's 1. It's the agenda of the national educational community. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] 4. In 1949, Hasan Tahsin Banguoğlu, the last Minister of National Education of the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0306par0148	They can't object to him, Minister, they can't object to him.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0307par0149	I'm giving you an extension to finish your vows, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0308par0151	I mean, we'll ask for at least the amount of time you've given Omar Çelik. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Reverend President, members of parliament, Hasan Ali Yücel said we should update the curriculum. Tahsin Banguoğlu in National Education says: "When the articles we read come, they are not suitable for the need. We study many things that have nothing to do with life, we teach things that are not in the reality of the country, things that we teach are not vital. We say: Education is not without criticism. We're doing an age-appropriate, science, technology-appropriate curriculum change. In this curriculum change, we want our children to have basic values. No one objects to these basic values. What is it? Justice, friendship, honesty, self-control, patience, respect, love, responsibility, patriotism, charity; does anyone object to that, universal values? Again, the skills of the 21st century and their competencies for Turkish and their European qualifications; communication in the native language and communication in foreign languages, mathematical competence, science and technology competence, learning digital competence, learning initiative and entrepreneurial perception, social and public competence, cultural awareness and expression. I'll finish my last sentence, Mr. President. This asks the PISA director: What will the education of the 21st century be? He expects an answer from him: He thinks it's best to give a more modern education at the time when the plants are talking to each other, when the machines are communicating with each other, when they're dealing with the robot. It says: The education of the 21st century is to be able to live with different cultures. We see every day what Europe can't do. Praise be to God, we will carry this nation under a banner of 72 nations, on the level of modern civilization, knowing each other as brothers, together, without leaving anyone behind. I want you to have every word you have, and I want you to have a white face. I want to thank each and every one of you for your support in this budget. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0309par0159	Anyway, let's be brothers and not scientists!
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0310par0160	Mr. Secretary, if it weren't for the municipalities, schools would have fallen out.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0311par0161	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, on behalf of the government, the speeches are complete. Mr. Purçu, you're in the system, sir. I'll take your request.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0312par0164	I'd expect another speech from the Minister in such a fine manner. I'd like to present it to the Minister in front of everyone.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0311par0165	You have a brief request for an explanation. Here you go, Mr. Purçu.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0312par0169	Minister, we all have children in this country, children and children of our country. Such fine work was done, but we couldn't save the children who were burning in Aladağ. Unfortunately, we've caused the children we've delivered to the cults to burn alive and alive in this educational world; we're all responsible, the Ministry of National Education is responsible. Please don't put our children in the hands of cults. Let's keep our children in dorms that have a share in our government's budget, please. Let's not give these children to the cults, to the congregations. I have two requests from you, and that's number one. Second: Roman was taught in 2011 as part of the integration of children in education, along with the Minister of the period, but after that, there was no sound. Roman children can't go to school, they have serious problems with school access. I wonder if our Ministry has made a plan, a program on this issue this year.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0311par0171	Thank you, Mr. Purçu. 1) Ministry of the European Union's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2016 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) Ministry of National Education Central Management Budget for 2018 2) National Ministry of Education 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Death, Choosing and Responsibility Office [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for 2018 is the chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) Metric, Selection and Placement Centre Chairman 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The Board of Higher Education 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2016 Central Management Final Account Members of parliament, the final statement belongs to our Istanbul MP, Mr. Selina Doğan. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Dogan, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0313par0197	Mr. President, Congressmans, Mr. Ministers, as the last speaker of the evening, I salute you all. As a matter of fact, budgets contain economic data, but they tell us a lot about how the country is managed. Like the constitutions, they reveal the administrative character of that country, and they're actually very important political texts in this regard. Again, budgets are also important for the power to demonstrate its periodical orientations. I'd like to stress that this budget was drafted during the State of Emergency, just like the constitutional amendment that changed the regime. Remind me, what did he say, Mr. President? We do it so that our business world will work more smoothly. We are taking immediate action by taking advantage of the State of Emergency where there is a strike threat. This is a budget that was prepared during a time when all decisions from the State of Emergency were being used for investors. So this budget is a budget that ignores the rights of working classes that serve a particular group. Naturally, there are no workers, no democracy, no freedoms, no women, no children, no others. There are predictions that only one person will maintain the dependent order created by his regime. This budget increases security spending in order to sustain this regime, but its social spending is kept at minimum levels. See, the National Ministry of Defence's budget increases by 41 per cent, while the Ministry of Education's budget increases by only 8 per cent. But can we say that even though the security budget has been up for years, our country has become a safer place? I'm afraid not. Look, there's a word that the power representatives have been talking about lately, development. We don't know who's up, but it's a budget-day recovery budget. Because it is clear that major investments in education must be made for permanent development. It's not a coincidence that countries who invest a great deal in education are also developing countries. We're dealing with a naked fact of why education isn't being invested. Because power, instead of a trained society, has been left ignorant and depends on the imagination of the illiterate. As a result, the budget for the Ministry of National Education tells us that in 2018 you will also despair of education. The second ministry we're talking about today's budget is the Ministry of the European Union. As a modernisation and democratisation project, Turkey's European Union adventure has taken a bumpy course, but at times there have been major crises, but both sides have never given up on each other. This relationship has never been as uncertain as it is today. Of course, diplomatic relations aren't static, of course they show variables, but they can't be left vague. It's not just the EU, it's all of our international relations. Today, power created an increasingly lonely Turkey, the taste of international relations coffee talk, the pastor of Ver, the priest of Al. We are rightly reacting to the Home Secretary's arogan jargon, but in fact, the entire representation of language, look and jargon is in this minvalde. Members of parliament, political power is doing the worst damage to all of us, turning and turning around to find political vision among the continents. Sixty-eight years ago, Turkey found its best interests in the concept of the Council of Europe, where it was founded strategically between Asia and Europe, while in recent years, it has been constantly changing scissors to the leadership of the Arab-Islamic world, sometimes leading the entire Middle East. Turkey's latest trend is Shanghai Group. But it's still not too late. Turkey can cling firmly to the values of its European Council and move on to EU membership. We are ready to make an effort to get Turkey back on that course by criticising the EU. The way is not only to spend the figures predicted in this budget, but first to normalise Turkey as soon as possible, to remove the State of Emergency, and to use financial aid in line with its purpose. The EU founding values and the principles of modern education that we're talking about here are actually the same. Either you'll call it science, education, enlightenment and modernity, or you'll condemn Turkey to darkness. The price of darkness cannot be compensated by any budget. That's why we don't accept this budget. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0314par0206	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. Congressmans, the talks on the seventh round are complete. Now we're going to question-answer.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0315par0209	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0314par0210	Let me finish, Mr. Akchay, then. We're gonna do a 20-minute QA. I repeat the names of the MPs entering the system: Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Torun, Mr. Depboylu, Mr. All, Mr. Kayan, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Durmaz, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Erdoğan, Mr. Özdish, Mr. Pine, Mr. Star and Mr. Akdoğan. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0316par0216	Thank you, Mr. President. With your permission and through you, I'd like to ask the Minister of National Education a question. There has been a general consensus in society that the interviews in the teacher's purchases were not conducted in justice, justice, and objectiveness. Teacher candidates interview separately at each teacher's appointment? Do you have a study to bring in a method in which the measurements of the interviews can be measured with knowledge, accuracy, and objectiveness? In addition, what is the criteria for the appointment of the principal or the director of this school? How do these assignments measure merit, driver's license, career and skill? On April 2, 2017, what is the number of lawsuits and motions to halt the execution of the Executive Employment Charter? Do you intend to make a change in this regulation? When will school and institutional administrators begin their duties on judicial decisions? Because there are a lot of rightful demands coming in on this. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0317par0222	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. 1) Ministry of the European Union's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2016 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) Ministry of National Education Central Management Budget for 2018 2) National Ministry of Education 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Death, Choosing and Responsibility Office [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for 2018 is the chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) Metric, Selection and Placement Centre Chairman 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The Board of Higher Education 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2016 Central Management Final Account Mr. Özdemir, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0318par0245	Thank you, Mr. President. In his presentation, our Minister spoke of schooling rates, infrastructure investments, classrooms, technology, all the improvements in these situations, and naturally, the demand for need for populations is increasing, investments are needed in these areas, but we are rapidly moving away from content, quality, contemporary curriculum. In this regard, I especially commend you on the knowledge and equipment of students who began basic education during your time of power after finishing their basic high school education. Unfortunately, we can't create the human resource that can compete in the global world. You're always bragging about the application of incentives to private schools, but the lunch problem in schools that turn into bilateral education, the eating problem... that's a serious problem. In this regard, really serious steps cannot be taken. The Teacher's Strategy Document was announced during your term...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0319par0250	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. Mr. Grandson...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0320par0252	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, what will be done about the lack of a major teacher in 18 districts outside the District of Altınordi? The transport system continues in all our counties. Our children continue to study at 20 or 25 kilometers. Is there a solution to our closing schools? In addition, our merchant who operates the transport system states that they can't receive transportation fees due to lack of funds. When will transport fees be paid? There are 350 students at Ulubey University of applied sciences, but there are no homes in our district, the current home is closed. Is there going to be a solution to this issue by the D.O.C. and our ministry? Our university in Mesudiye district has dropped from 400 to 70. Our school needs to open sections, such as agricultural technicians, which are particularly preferable. There's still a management deficit in our schools. This issue poses a major challenge both in our province's educational success and administrative capacity. What's your Ministry's savings on this?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0321par0255	Thank you, Mr. Grandson. Mr. Depboy...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0322par0257	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the latest guidance regulation has not defined the definition of a child therapist, child developer, psychologist, and psychologist. But they're the ones who have the most jobs in the field. Why is that? There is the definition of a guidance teacher, but there is no degree given by that name, there is no field, there is no program, there is no license. If it's for PDR graduates, I'd like to remind you that the National Institute of Professional Standards has given PDR graduates the title of psychological adviser. As the name of the staff, the term "teacher" is a misunderstanding of the nature, meaning, and responsibilities of the tasks performed in this area. I'd like to know how you feel about changing the name of this staff to the school psychologist, the school psychologist, and the degree of graduates. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0323par0261	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. Mr. All...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0324par0263	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you came to power in 2002 using the European criteria. In the 2007 elections, you promised to make Turkey a member of the European Union. On July 20th, after the coup attempt on July 15th, you did the actual coup; you fired more than 120,000 public workers; you sent 180 journalists from their jobs; you sent academics who wanted peace; you imprisoned elected deputies and mayors; you tied the judiciary to the palace; you declared the State of Emergency; you bypassed the House by declaring it; you rule of law. I'm asking the Minister: Are you aware that you have removed Turkey from its European values and made it a Middle Eastern country? Do you think that because of your conflicting and other policy, you have left 5 million of our citizens living in Europe in trouble? Is it appropriate for the freedom of faith that this is not accepted in Turkey when the mosques, which are the places of faith of the Alevis in Europe, are considered a legal place of worship? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is it in line with the EU criteria that you do not see the Aleki as an equal citizen? How many cases have been filed against Turkey due to discrimination by the ECHR during your rule of power?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0325par0268	Thank you, Mr. All. Mr. Kayan, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0326par0270	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the University of Cırklareli is one of the last universities to be established. Three-quarters of the 40s are agricultural and one-quarter are forestry. This agricultural land is also the most valuable land in the world, a land covered with caphir soil, and has two large dams. These dams provide a large portion of the irrigation, and food plants, such as corn and clover, are especially suitable for animal production. In this region, especially the agricultural faculty and the veterinary faculty need to be built in a state of heat. In particular, Needleda Forests are a region that is very rich in both the mother-in-law forest and the oak forest and other forest plants, especially one of the rare parts of the water - printed forests around the world. That's why we call this the jungle faculty. In particular, law schools all over Turkey are the largest students of the 40s. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We also want to establish a law school for the University of Centipede. Mr. Secretary, I'd also like to share with you the information that's coming in right now. In the 40s, in particular, two people from your education and two from the Health Workers' Union, the last referendum launched an investigation into our unionists because they were working on the game, why? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0327par0278	Thank you, Mr. Kayan. Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0328par0280	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to Mr. Minister of National Education. In response to a question proposal from your ministry, the number of clear teachers needed was 81,001, with 912,250 teachers in our country's official educational institutions. 438,138 teachers have announced their 20 thousand purchases to appoint February while waiting for the appointment. Do you have any good news or additional purchases for the year 2018, in exchange for the demands of our teachers who demand half as much as you need? My second question: will there be an arrangement to ensure family integrity on the condition that contract teachers be committed to staying in the area they need? My third question: Again, there was a promise made by you here, that you had a promise of extradition of 1,709 branch managers and implementation of the Court's decision, but we know that the issue is still pending. Any progress on that? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0329par0285	Thank you, Your Grace. Mr. Botan...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0330par0287	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to our Minister of National Education. As you know, the national education curriculum does not include all the colors, languages, beliefs of the country. I ask as a teacher of literature for years: We taught the children Finnish literature, we spoke of Shinto Destiny, we spoke of Shakespeare, we spoke of Moliere, but for some reason one of the greatest poets of this land was Ahmed-i Hani, Feqiye Teyran, and again Sadi Shirazi. For this reason, do you intend to publish your courts in Turkish, Kurdish, to meet Turkish and Kurdish children in Tripoli, Edirne, all over the country to benefit from this precious literature? Again, my second question: the number of students who prefer Kurdish electives is rapidly diminishing. The reason for this is that not enough Kurdish teachers have been appointed. Do you have any work to do, do you intend to take precautions? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0331par0291	Thank you, Mr. Botan. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0332par0293	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister through you: We will remove the crown in the last days. The political power says only if the government lifts this subcontract, there has been a tender in the Social Security Directorate of Antalya province for 36 months, 95 people will be subcontracted. If the subcontractor is to be removed, why is this tender being re-opened? If the subcontractorship is lifted... there are over 17,000 companies in Turkey, 200,000 employees, how do you plan to arrange them? In addition, we will employ 400,000 subcontractors working in the municipalities. How are these people going to get jobs in the bankrupt companies? Government security won't have happened again. What are your studies on this subject? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0333par0298	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Durmaz...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0334par0300	Thank you, Mr. President. In the fifteen-year period of AK PARTY power, the teaching profession has become increasingly disproportionate. According to the study, it is evident that 44 per cent of teachers use more than two hundred credit cards but only 24 per cent can pay their credit card's minimum debt, while 20 per cent have a business debt, 23 per cent have a debt and 36 per cent receive financial support from their parents, while 20 per cent have additional jobs, and more than 80 per cent suffer psychological problems due to lack of income. Does the government have a government's work to increase the cost of a respectable profession, such as teaching? He is praised as a government in an economic capacity to lend money to the IMF. Mr. Minister, you said there were 17,000 teachers short, we'll appoint 20,000. You said. That doesn't cover the country's deficit. Again, also, do you plan to increase staffing, such as physical education, music, painting, to raise children as a healthy generation?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0335par0304	Thank you, Mr. Durmez. Mr. Dogan...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0336par0306	My question to Mr. Minister of National Education: President Erdoğan has told the government of Greece that we expect the ECHR decisions for the Western Thracian Turks to be carried out. We want the same decisions to be carried out. However, in 2014, the ECHR ruled that in the case against compulsory religious and moral culture studies in education, it was a violation of the European Convention on Human Rights' right to education. The court demanded that the Turkish government move on to a new system that would allow students to be exempted from mandatory religious and moral culture classes without delay. Why is your government not implementing the ECHR decisions, is there a project, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0335par0307	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. The time for asking questions is complete. Who will answer first from the ministers? Mr. Steel, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0337par0311	Mr. President, thank you. A question has been raised by all of you, but I hope his sentence is a sentence of carelessness. Because this is the first time I've heard a sentence like that, and I'd like to say it's the wrong one I've heard since I've been in this House.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0338par0313	Which one, which one, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0337par0314	Be patient. The coup attempt took place on July 15th, followed by the actual coup on July 20th. I'm dealing with a lot of people in Europe, and I haven't even heard from the enemies of Turkey about the coup attempt on July 15th, and the government's practices, which are equally similar to each other. The July 15 coup is a low attempt by terrorists dressed in military suits in Turkey to rule a perverted religious ideology, to destroy the state, the legitimate government, to kill the President of Turkey, the Council of Ministers, to overthrow the government, and to kill people, to harm and martyr the innocent children of this nation. In this sentence, the legitimate government should not be mentioned equally or side-by-side by any action of the elected government. The coup attempt is a coup attempt, the government is the government. Now, on July 20th, you did the actual blow. It's a very wrong attitude to set up some politically controversial arguments under it.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0338par0316	Is that a lie, Mr. Secretary? Is that a lie?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0337par0317	We must all condemn the coup attempt on July 15th.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0338par0318	Didn't you fire 150,000 people? Didn't you send the journalists to prison?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0337par0319	No one believes in the legitimacy of this House, this government...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0338par0320	Didn't you throw out the peacekeepers?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0337par0321	Listen a minute... listen a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0338par0322	Which one's the lie? Tell them, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0337par0323	No, look, the sentence you said...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0338par0324	Don't take a sentence.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0337par0325	There's no need to discuss the gold because the beginning of the sentence you said was a lie. You can't equate the coup with the legitimate government.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0338par0326	None of this is a lie, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0337par0327	The one who holds the coup with the legitimate government has no faith in the legitimacy of this House.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0338par0328	I stand by everything I say. You're not answering.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0337par0329	You use the argument the Fetullahists use.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0338par0330	Answer my questions.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0337par0331	The Fetullahist terrorist organisation equates the government's practices with the July 15 coup attempt. Your job is to criticize the legitimate government by standing on the same plane as the Fetullahists.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0339par0333	What does that have to do with anything? Who brought Fetullah there?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0340par0334	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0337par0335	Whoever says it's July 20th coup attempt. What he's doing is...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0341par0336	Mr. Secretary, you can't put the Republican People's Party side by side with a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0340par0337	Congressman... Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0337par0338	Who is the July 20 coup attempt...?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0342par0339	Don't be ambitious, answer my questions, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0340par0340	Mr. Secretary, please, sir... one moment...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0337par0341	I'm giving you an answer.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0342par0342	Well, you're not.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0340par0343	Congressmans, you can't understand a word from each other.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0337par0344	Look, your friends are standing behind him.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0340par0345	Sir, just a moment. Congressmans, Mr. Secretary is responding. Let's hear it calmly, if you need an answer. Mr. Secretary, go ahead.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0343par0348	Look, when one of our fellow MPs was talking about the coup attempt on July 15th, on July 20th, the government did the actual coup. What is the meaning of this sentence? July 15th...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0344par0350	He's right, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0345par0351	He's right.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0343par0352	Friends, then he's telling the truth. All those who say...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0346par0353	Didn't you bypass the House?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0343par0354	All those who say it is true have a sense of democracy that equates the legitimate government with the coup attempt on July 15th.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0346par0355	What blow left 120,000 people hungry? September 12th? March 12th?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0343par0356	We don't call it a democracy, we don't call it a state of law.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0347par0358	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0343par0359	If you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0347par0360	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0348par0361	Mr. Secretary, they're two separate things.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0343par0362	It's not separate, it's called coup. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) It's called a coup. It's that clear.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0349par0363	You're doing the blow. Who brought the coupgers there?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0350par0364	Who brought the men there?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0343par0365	Look, the Republic of Turkey has elected the government of Turkey. If you call it that, and you equate it with the July 15 coup attempt, it's called coup, nothing else matters.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0351par0367	You're the one who did the coup. You've been running the law for a year and a half.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0352par0368	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... It's time for the Minister of National Education. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0353par0371	Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0354par0372	Mr. President, I want a say in this.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0353par0373	Mr. All, we apologize. Let's just say we don't agree with you on this. You're forcing us to agree with you. We don't agree with you on this.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0354par0375	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0355par0376	Mr. All, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0354par0377	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0355par0378	Mr. Secretary will finish your words, and I will, Mr. Allo. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0356par0380	Thank you. First of all, our deputy had a request for a family union, provided the teachers who served in the agreed-upon status stay in the area where he worked? With this, 96 teachers serving in a contract status were applied for a family union alibi, and 91 couples were granted a family union. Again, there was a question as to why this oral examination was applied. Teaching is a vocational profession that directly affects education, with social, cultural, economic, scientific and technological dimensions, which requires expertise, academic work and professional formation. Today's society is yesterday's educational system and the work of teachers in this system. The teachers who will shape tomorrow are our current educational system and the most important actor in this system. The current employment system, based on the central method of testing, based on the evaluation of cognitive skills, is not enough for the teaching profession, where sensory and psychomotor skills are necessary. The oral examination also determines not only the level of information but also the teacher's position, behavior, emotion, expression power, communication ability, persuasion, the ability to represent the teaching profession. Besides, I told you in the Tenth Development Plan -- there's a lot of circulation of teachers in the east and the southeast. So the solution to bringing this down is either bringing this system or when Turkey's financial power increases, when its national income increases, when its budget revenue increases... then you'll say: "I'm giving additional financial support to employees in the east or the southeast." In every corner of the Republic of Turkey, we will certainly defend both the equality of opportunity in education and leave some places without a teacher, which is not true. We're both going to make the equality of opportunity in education, and... leaving it without a teacher is that both are under contract or underprivileged, but you can't undo the quality difference in this education if you condemn them to a paid teacher, which is the greatest evil, not the service to that area. Another question was your grandson. The carrying training in the military province is about 30,000, all funds are being sent, Mr. Grandson, and none of the rights are expected. If anything comes to us, we'll send it. We don't have a budget problem. We have more than 421 teachers, and we need teachers at 1,335. Let me get this straight. The question is, why don't you apply the court decisions sent from the office to the Ministry? It's not even an act of appreciation, you have to; it's the rule of law, the rule of law. There's no court order that's ever reached us on this. Mr. President, thank you for your tolerance. The appointment of a teacher for Kurdish is now 99 teachers, 94 teachers in Kurmanci, 14 in Zazaki, and 108 teachers in total. Here, why did you bring a contract teacher? We appointed 17,000 teachers to Şanlıurfa, and 13,000 teachers left a year later. We've appointed 11,000 teachers to Van. 9,000 teachers left a year later. And so do the MPs there. We've assigned 7,500 teachers to Şırnak, 6,800 teachers to attend. It's not sustainable. If you'd come on these missions, you'd do what we do. And finally, Congressman, with my Aleki brothers...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0357par0390	Minister, please complete.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0356par0391	Thank you, sir. In accordance with this European Court of Human Rights decision, we are trying to make sure that our State Department and its relevant ministries -- including the Ministry of the European Union -- are in line with this decision. Usually -- there's been talks with our brothers and sisters -- they certainly don't want religious culture and morality to be lifted.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0358par0393	Make it a choice.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0356par0394	No, that's one thing, he has to choose, which is a constitutional necessity. The issue they want in the Constitution is: define us correctly, as we are. Let our children know about us. We live side by side, but we don't know what religion is, what religion is; we don't know what language is. So we know that this is wrong, that this is missing, this lack of...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0359par0395	The children of Alevi already know themselves well, they live well with their moral values, their cultural values.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0356par0396	Yeah, well, that's not the system, I'm gonna tell you, you're gonna listen, you're gonna tell me, I'm gonna listen.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0360par0397	Mr. Secretary, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0356par0398	So, sir, we, hopefully, would like to use Kurdish language in every area compared to the past to democratization and education, as the Aleki community said, to draw the basic framework of faith... my many Alevi brothers were absent yesterday, and we were denied yesterday. We do today, but it's not enough. It doesn't work, but we say yes, so we say, let's complete the shortcomings together. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you forever, Mr. President. If I can't answer, I'll give them a written answer.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0361par0403	Thank you. I will personally report what I cannot answer. He said, "You didn't hear it, I heard it from here, let it go into the General Assembly's records."
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0356par0405	By the way, there's a law school at the University of Centipede. He's got law school, but he couldn't get enough faculty, so he couldn't get a student. So it's a different status, and I want it to be known. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0362par0407	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0363par0408	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0362par0409	Just now, Mr. Minister Mehmet Balıkesir, our MP, responded to a question by Mr. Alleg, not only Mr. Alli, but he targeted the entire Republican People's Party Group, accusing us of using the Fetullah Terror Organization arguments and being coupgers. I demand word.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0363par0410	You or Mr. All, sir?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0362par0411	I'm on behalf of the group, Mr. All Separate...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0363par0412	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0362par0416	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. Just after the July 15 coup, Mr. Buli Yıldırım phoned and spoke to our president. When Mr. Prime Minister transferred the State of Emergency to our President, when he said that he had such a desire, our President said: "We also understand your desire to declare a state of emergency after such a heavy, treacherous coup attempt, but the extraordinary state of democracy means that democracy is to be put on the shelf, to be suspended. Therefore, there must be at least one political party in parliament that owns and defends democracy. That's why we're not looking at your State of Emergency request. Dear lawmakers, it's been almost a year and a half since the State of Emergency was declared. The coup on July 15th, not just the AK PARTY, Republican People's Party, Peoples' Democratic Party and the Nationalist Movement Party, all of us, we all fought with the resistance of our beloved nation, but now that I've told you, Mr. Secretary- we have to agree somewhere. You're a journalist, you're a very good person, we're a lot of people? (This argument only works for Fetullah Gulen.) It only works for Fetullah Gulen, and it helps the cryptologists. I'm just saying, it's not over until you decide: when did the service movement turn into a terrorist organization? December 17th or December 25th or July 15th? We have a deal here, one. Two: here, mentally, you need to be clear. Sir, if you say after December 17th-25th, you'll repeat what I just said: this government... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, it's a private, private matter, and I'd like to ask you one more minute.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0364par0423	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0362par0424	I'd say this government has financed terrorist organizations. After December 17th-25, they ask the man, "Why did you give $113,790,000 to the schools of a terrorist organization you registered as a terrorist organization? Why did you give it to him?" [[Applause from CHP rows]] On the other hand, Mr. Minister, if you choke democracy, basic rights, human rights, freedom of expression, freedom of the press, we'll continue to call it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0365par0430	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Let's hear what Mr. Alley has to say. Mr. All, please, give me your request.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0366par0433	The Minister called me a liar. I'll take that as an insult. I want a say in this. It's a tease.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0365par0434	You want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0366par0435	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0365par0436	Here you go, Mr. All.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0366par0439	Mr. Secretary, we, of course, know the ministers with different styles, but you are the Minister of the European Union. I mean, to be honest, I'd like you to answer it differently. I'm talking about the July 15 coup here. All parties already in this House have condemned this coup. But beyond that, behind him, you did the real blow, knowing it was an opportunity. I'm giving you numbers, I'm saying you fired 120,000 people, and those people are starving. 180 journalists inside. You've arrested academics who want peace, and they're starving. So, basically, you bypassed this Parliament by declaring the State of Emergency. Right now, you're taking possession of the property of any man you want with a decree under law. The elected MPs are in prison, the mayors are in prison. You're suspending them by threatening the mayors who haven't resigned. Is that normal? In what era of impact, on March 12th, on September 12th, were so many victims? I'm asking you guys, what's this called, not a coup? After that, I asked you questions, and I say, there are Alevis in this country, citizens of this country. You're the Minister of the European Union. Why don't you consider the Alekis an equal citizen in this country? In every country of Europe, the temples are considered a place of worship. The Alekis serve in this country, pay taxes, why don't you consider them citizens, are they not your citizens?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0367par0442	Who doesn't? You're disassembled.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0366par0443	I mean, do you, on a conscience, really believe that now, as you two ministers, answer. So we say that we want to live together in peace, in equal conditions in this country.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0367par0445	Who doesn't see you as a citizen?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0366par0446	Look, you can't solve problems in this country by raising your fingers and dropping your fingers. These problems are our common problems. (CHEERING) We all have to solve these problems together. We are opposed to this military coup, to the full extent of the civilian coup. You came with an election and Hitler came with an election, Mr. Secretary, no big deal. The point is, you have to digest democracy, but you don't swallow it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You can't just lift a finger and put it down. So don't give up your will elsewhere. This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I say think freely, decide freely. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0368par0451	You've never raised a finger to those who support terrorism and terrorism.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0369par0452	Thank you, Mr. All. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0370par0454	Mr. President, on July 20, 2016, Parliament decided to implement the State of Emergency.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0371par0455	You took it with your finger down and up.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0370par0456	Then Congress decided to extend it again.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0372par0457	So he didn't take it to extend it another 5,000 times.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0370par0458	Calling a decision taken on legitimate grounds the decision was mainly a taunt for the AK PARTY Group, which played a role in making this decision. If you give me your word in this box, I will speak according to 69.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0373par0459	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0370par0462	Mr. President, dear friends, when it comes to this place, it's always the place where the will of the nation is granted.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0374par0463	He says he's got somewhere to be.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0370par0464	The decisions that have been made, whether we like them or not, are the decisions that the people's will is granted. These decisions will not be made if the State of Emergency does not have the will of the nation behind it. This does not mean that policies that do not participate in these decisions can criticize it, criticize it in the most severe way, but it is grave to describe a decision made on legitimate grounds as a decision that can be based on the will of the nation and can only be criticised politically, and can be legally eliminated on political grounds again.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0375par0465	You're talking about a council of crooked elections.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0370par0466	Who does the coup and how, doesn't the precious CHP Group know as much as I do? Doesn't he know how hit men do things? Of course he does.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0376par0467	Mr. President, it's a gift from God. You said it! A blessing from God. You said the blow of July 15th!
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0377par0468	Shut up, shut up! Shut the fuck up and listen!
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0378par0469	Mr. Özdish, please...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0379par0470	The closest example is July 15th. See, what's even more severe is that you're taking the coup attempt of a gang that's trying to take the direct violence to rule here -- out there -- and you're not putting July 15th and July 20th side by side, you're setting up a hierarchy, you're pointing to July 20th, you're saying that a gang, a minority, will not answer to the nation in any way. I assure you, that's a very wrong statement.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0380par0471	Mr. Bostanci, it is the grace of God. Can you tell us the meaning of the word?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0379par0472	We're not saying no criticism, but please, while we're considering the concepts... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...as you evaluate what's going on, please be more careful about distinguishing between the legitimate and the illegitimate. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0381par0477	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0382par0478	Can you tell us what the word "God" means, Mr. Bostanci? What does it mean, it's God's grace? ▪ It gave us an unexpected opportunity.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0379par0479	It's not like that, it's not like that.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0382par0480	How's that?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0383par0481	Explain then, Mr. Bostanci, explain.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0379par0482	No, I'll explain.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0382par0483	Come in, explain.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0383par0484	We're waiting...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0384par0485	Mr. Steel, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0385par0488	Now, I could basically ignore this sentence because it could have slipped through a lot of sentences: you did the actual blow on July 20th after July 15th coup attempt. I think that with all my savings, when I see this sentence, Turkey's democracy should be kept away from this sentence. As the friends say, I haven't done anything for the CHP Group, but Mr. Group Vice President has taken over. Now, look, after the July 15 coup attempt, you did the real blow. He's talking about a coup attempt called July 20th, attempted July 15th, coupging the other. Look, do you know why this is dangerous? It's the acquish of the High Council. After the May 27 coup, hundreds of books have been written, thousands of articles telling the young people of this country for 50 years, what kind of mistakes the Democratic Party had actually made to do that coup, why that coup should be tolerated; in quotes, it is a historical imperative, it is not a political choice. If you now identify this as a coup attempt on July 15th, by calling it a coup to the government's work, or even put it in a more serious place, it would not be democratic criticism, and the High Assembly should avoid it. You can criticize all of these practices, we can argue all of them, you can say that all of them have weakened democracy, you can say that democracy has created vulnerability, but the coup is something else, and it means that using it in the same sentence as the July 15 coup attempt, and to present it as something more dangerous than that, it means that it means: to perceive legitimate government in the same paradigm. So here I wish our friend had expressed that this was a carelessness in the creation of the sentence and expressed that it was an improper sentence and asked questions after that.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0386par0490	Mr. Secretary, I think it's true. The sentence is correct.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0385par0491	All those questions can be spoken in this House, and they're legitimate to be asked. But once this sentence is established and this sentence is behind it, no one can convince me that it is said to stand next to democracy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We have a 50-year-old cult that tells us why the coups are historical imperatives and tries to justify them. No one can put the elected legitimate government in the same position as those who did July 15th, period. That's democracy.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0387par0495	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0388par0497	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0389par0498	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0387par0499	Mr. Altay, I promise you, Mr. Star, one moment... Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0390par0502	Mr. President, the orator has made such a comment, as terrorism has been supported by the government, as he has paid training support to a school. It is very clear that no private school with a terrorist organisation has been paid for teaching aid by the Ministry of Education, which has been investigated by the Supreme Prosecutors of the Republic and the State before launching an attempt to invade our country with terror action on July 15, 2016. In light of information from different agencies of the state, those thought to be connected to terrorist organizations have certainly been excluded from the scope of incentives. Well, then again, when we didn't give it to them, we didn't give it to them, but then, the cryptos, the ones that were somehow connected to that terrorist organization, took that amount. We're being asked questions, and the sentence is: "If you're looking at schools that don't have schools that don't have a scholarship, won't our citizens and children who have suffered equal rights of education be victims?" (When you ask the question, there will be no education support for the student, the family, the poor citizen, but when you give it to the prosecutor, and then we ask the prosecutor, if you've launched an investigation into these schools, send us the list, send it to us. We didn't support any of the payments they sent, but the prosecution's investigation into... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... How could we not know that he was connected to a terrorist organization and support a place he didn't start? So there's got to be a lot of compassion here, to make the right statement, to inform the public.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0387par0505	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Kerestecioglu, you've entered the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0391par0509	Mr. President, as a party of a tradition in history that doesn't condone any coup, we don't, of course, equate what political power is doing right now with what political power is doing, but with different shrouds, there could be coups, so it wouldn't be a military coup, but it could be a political coup. Today we are a country ruled by the KHK. There are no life-long decisions made in the State of Emergency, in fact or in this case, with the laws brought here, but these decisions now affect the lives of the entire community, and our MPs are in after that coup. I went through September 12th, did something different happen after that? It's about turning this into an opportunity. There may not be a military coup, but there are other things he has to do for himself, a government that boasts about removing military custody and is always on the road with it. That's the setting, not going back to those factory settings... Today, indeed, by opening the way for democratic politics, only you can claim and defend that you did not do political coups; you can do and defend thousands of people unless you fire them with the OHAL, with the KHK.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0387par0510	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Star, you have entered the system. What is your request?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0392par0512	I want words according to 60.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0387par0513	What is it, but I know your request?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0392par0514	Mr. Minister of National Education has made a false statement...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0387par0515	Is there a misunderstanding?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0392par0516	Yeah, that's why I want to answer.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0387par0517	Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0392par0519	Mr. President, thank you. On December 17, 1927, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said in the Parliament: "Sirs, not because we are enemies of religion, but because these structures are enemies of religion and state, we forbid Seljuklu and Ottomans to sink because of it. Not much, not a hundred years from now, but if you don't pay attention to these words, you'll see that some people will come together with some of the congregations and claim that we are the enemies of religion, and they'll take over your vote, but when it comes to dividing the state, they'll turn against each other. Also, when that day comes, remember that each side will not fail to accuse the other of blasphemy. So 90 years ago, Ataturk saw today, Mr. Ministers.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0393par0523	Thank you, Mr. Star. Yes, last word, Mr. Altay. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0394par0527	Thank you. Mr. President, we need to settle somewhere, so we need to deal with the government. At least at the point of use of concepts, when everyone evaluates events through the window where they look at them, there's a chaotic situation like this. The coup doesn't just happen to the government, the coup isn't just to the parliament, the coup isn't simply postal; the coup means a impact, if you look at the dictionary thing of the coup. Thus, from various centers for democracy and human rights, coups have occurred throughout the history of mankind. If you take power, a state authority, and you take fundamental rights and freedoms, it's kind of a coup, and there's one thing we've always said: no security concern can depend on the removal of fundamental rights and freedoms. And there's one thing the government must remember: democracy is a reaction and a protest regime. If he has no right to react and protest, with the KHKs, with the State of Emergency as an excuse, this right has been eliminated, it is a blow to democracy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's how we feel about it, and we'll keep looking at it that way. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit06spe0395par0534	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Ministers, Mr. Presidents, under the right to explain, I have promised you and the MPs a mutual bullying. Talks have been exchanged, corrections have been made, and answers have been given; the right to explain has been used mutually. We'll now resume negotiations on the agenda where we left off. 1) Ministry of the European Union's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2016 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) Ministry of National Education Central Management Budget for 2018 2) National Ministry of Education 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Death, Choosing and Responsibility Office [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for 2018 is the chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) Metric, Selection and Placement Centre Chairman 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The Board of Higher Education 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] a) Ankara University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Ankara University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 2) ORTA EAST TECHNIC UNIVERSITY [[Continue]] A) Central Management Budget for 2018 Middle East Technical University B) Middle East Technical University Central Management Account for 2016 [[Continue]] a) Hacettepe University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Hacettepe University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] A) Gazi University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Gazi University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account [[Continue]] a) İstanbul University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) İstanbul University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 6) ISTANBUL TECHNIC UNIVERSITY [[Continue]] a) İstanbul Technical University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) İstanbul Technical University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account [[Continue]] a) Boğaziçi University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Boğaziçi University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] A) The Central Management Budget of the University of Marmara 2018 B) Marmara University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 9) STAR TECHNIC UNIVERSITY [[Continue]] A) Star Technical University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Yıldız Technical University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 10) THE UNIVERSE OF MINAR SINAN BEAUTIFUL ARTS [[Continue]] A) Architect Sinan University of Fine Arts 2018 Central Management Budget B) Architect Sinan Fine Arts University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] A) Ege University's Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Ege University 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 12) NINE SEPTEMBER UNIVERSE [[Continue]] A) 9 September University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Nine Eylül University Central Administration Terminate Account for 2016 [[Continue]] A) Thracian University's Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Thrace University 2016 Central Management Terminate Account [[Continue]] A) Uludağ University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Uludağ University Central Management Account for 2016 [[Continue]] a) Anadolu University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Anadolu University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account [[Continue]] A) Selçuk University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Selçuk University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] a) Mediterranean University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Mediterranean University 2016 Central Management Terms [[Continue]] a) Ercijas University's Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Ercijas University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account [[Continue]] A) Republican University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Cumhuriyet University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account [[Continue]] A) Çukurova University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Çukurova University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 21) THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE [[Continue]] a) Central Management Budget, May 19, University of May 2018 B) Nineteen May University Central Management Final Account for 2016 22) KARADENINiz TECHNIC UNIVERSITY [[Continue]] A) Black Sea Technical University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Black Sea Technical University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] a) Ataturk University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Ataturk University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account [[Continue]] A) Inönu University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Inönü University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account [[Continue]] a) Firat University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Fırat University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account [[Continue]] a) Dicle University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Dicle University 2016 Central Management Terms 27) VAN YUNY YEAR UNIVERSITY [[Continue]] a) Van Centennial University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Centennial University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account [[Continue]] a) Gaziantep University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Gaziantep University 2016 Central Management Final Account 29) INSTITUTE INSTITUTION OF INDISTINCT TECHNOLOGY [[Continue]] a) Izmir Institute of Higher Technology Central Management Budget for 2018 B) İzmir Institute of Higher Technology 2016 Central Management Final Account 30) GEBZE TECHNIC UNIVERSITY [[Continue]] A) Gebze Technical University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Gebze Technical University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] a) Harran University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Harran University 2016 Central Management Final Account 32) SERIOUS UNIVERSE [[Continue]] A) Suleiman Demirel University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Sulejman Demirel University Central Management Account for 2016 33) ADNAN MANDERES UNIVERSE [[Continue]] A) Adnan Menderes University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Adnan Menderes University 2016 Central Management Terms 34) BULENT ECEVIT UNIVERSITY [[Continue]] a) Bulent Ecevit University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Bült Ecevit University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] A) Mersin University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Mersin University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] A) Pamukkale University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Pamukkale University 2016 Central Management Terms [[Continue]] A) Balıkesir University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Balıkesir University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account [[Continue]] A) The Central Management Budget of the 2018 University of Marseilles B) Kopeeli University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account [[Continue]] A) Sakarya University's Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Sakarya University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 40) MANISA CELAL UNIVERSE [[Continue]] A) Manisa Celal Bayar University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Manisa Celal Bayar University 2016 Central Management Terms 41) ABANT UNIVERSE [[Continue]] A) Abant Izzet Baysal University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Abant Izzet Baysal University 2016 Central Management Final Account 42) MUSTAFA CEMAL UNIVERSE [[Continue]] a) Mustafa Kemal University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Mustafa Kemal University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 43) AFYON KOCATEPE UNIVERSITY [[Continue]] A) Afyon Kocatepe University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Afyon Kocatepe University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] A) Kafkas University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Kafkas University 2016 Central Management Terms 45) CHUNKKALE ONSELVES MART UNIVERSE [[Continue]] A) Çanakkale University of March 18, 2018 Central Management Budget B) Çanakkale 18 Mart University 2016 Central Management Final Account 46) THE UNIVERSE OF THE VICTIM [[Continue]] A) Niğde Ömer Halisdemir University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Ömer Halisdemir University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] A) Dumlupınar University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Dumlupınar University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] A) Gaziosmanpaşa University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Gaziosmanpaşa University 2016 Central Management Terms 49) MUGLA STUDENT STUDENT UNIVERSE [[Continue]] A) Mugla Sıtkı Koçman University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Muğla Sıtkı Koçman University 2016 Central Management Final Account 50) KARAMANMANMAN SURVIVING UNIVERSE [[Continue]] A) Heromarash Milker Imam University Central Management Budget of 2018 B) Kahramanmarash Milkyman İmam University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] A) Kırıkkale University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Kırıkkale University Central Management Account for 2016 52) EXECUTIVE OSMAN UNIVERSITY [[Continue]] A) Eskişehir Osman Gazi University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Eskişehir Osman Gazi University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] a) Galatasaray University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Galatasaray University Central Management Terms 2016 54) THE UNIVERSE OF THE EVIL [[Continue]] A) Ahi Evran University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Ahi Evran University 2016 Central Management Terms [[Continue]] a) Kastamonon University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Kastamono University 2016 Central Management Termination Account [[Continue]] A) Düzce University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Düzce University 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 57) MEHMET AKIF ERSOY UNIVERSITY [[Continue]] A) Mehmet Akif Ersoy University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Mehmet Akif Ersoy University 2016 Central Management Terms [[Continue]] A) Uğur University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Uğur University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 59) RECEP TERRORAL UNIVERSE [[Continue]] A) Recep Tayyip Erdogan University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Recep Tayyip Erdogan University Central Administration Final Account for 2016 60) NAMI KEMAL UNIVERSE [[Continue]] A) Namik Kemal University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Namik Kemal University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account [[Continue]] A) Erzincan University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Erzincan University Central Management Final Account for 2016 [[Continue]] a) Aksaray University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Aksaray University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account [[Continue]] a) Giresun University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Giresun University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] A) Hitit University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Hitit University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] A) Bozok University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Bozok University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] A) Adıyaman University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Adıyaman University Central Management Account for 2016 [[Continue]] A) Military University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Army University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] A) Amasya University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Amasya University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 69) KARAMANOLU MEHMETBY UNIVERSITY [[Continue]] A) Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey University 2016 Central Administration Terminator Account 70) ALONG IBRAHAM UNIVERSE [[Continue]] A) Ağrı İbrahim Chechn University 2018 Central Management Budget B) Ağrı İbrahim Çeçn University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] A) Sinop University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Sinop University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] A) Siirt University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Siirt University 2016 Central Management Final Account 73) THE UNIVERSE OF VICTIMAL BEKTAS VICTIMS [[Continue]] A) Nevşehir Haci Bektaş Veli University Central Management Budget 2018 B) Nevşehir Hacı Bektas Veli University 2016 Central Executive Term [[Continue]] A) Karabuk University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Karabük University 2016 Central Management Final Account 75) CHURCH UNIVERSITY OF DECEMBER 7 [[Continue]] A) Church University of December 7th 2018 Central Management Budget B) Kilis University of December 7th 2016 Central Management Final Account 76) THE UNIVERSE OF CHENKIRI KATEKIN [[Continue]] A) Çanırı Karatekin University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Çanırı Karateken University 2016 Central Management Terms 77) ARVIN'S UNIVERSE OF CORUH [[Continue]] A) Artvin Çoruh University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Artvin Çoruh University 2016 Central Management Terms 78) THE UNIVERSITY OF BILECTIC HEITH [[Continue]] A) Bilecik Sheikh Edebali University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Bilecik Sheikh Edebali University 2016 Central Management Terms 79) BITIS EREN UNIVERSE [[Continue]] a) Bitlis Eren University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Bitlis Eren University 2016 Central Management Terms [[Continue]] A) Cırklareli University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Kırklareli University 2016 Central Management Final Account 81) OSMANI SCARED ATTA UNIVERSE [[Continue]] A) Osmaniye Korkuş University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Osmaniye Korkuş Ata University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] a) Bingol University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Bingöl University 2016 Central Management Final Account 83) THE UNIVERSE OF THE ALPARSLAN [[Continue]] A) Muş Alparslan University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Mus Alparslan University Central Management Terminate in 2016 84) THE UNIVERSE OF MARDIN [[Continue]] a) Mardin Artuklu University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Mardin Artuklu University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] A) Batman University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Batman University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] a) Ardahan University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Ardahan University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] A) Bartın University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Bartın University 2016 Central Management Terms [[Continue]] A) Bayburt University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Bayburt University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] A) Silver Hall University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Silverhane University 2016 Central Management Terms [[Continue]] a) Hakkari University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Hakkari University Central Administration Terminate Account for 2016 [[Continue]] A) Iğdır University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Iğdır University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] a) Şırnak University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Şırnak University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] A) Munzur University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Munzur University 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] A) Yalova University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Yalova University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 95) TURK ALMAN UNIVERSITY [[Continue]] a) Turkish German University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Turkey's German University's Central Executive Account for 2016 96) ANKARA STAR BEYAZIT UNIVERSITY [[Continue]] A) Ankara Yıldırım Akıt University 2018 Central Management Budget B) Ankara Yıldırım Çakıt University 2016 Central Management Final Account 97) BURSA TECHNIC UNIVERSITY [[Continue]] a) Bursa Technical University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Bursa Technical University 2016 Central Management Final Account 98) ISTANBUL UNIVERSE [[Continue]] a) İstanbul Civility University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) İstanbul Civiliyet University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 99) UNIVERSITY OF EMPLOYMENT [[Continue]] a) İzmir Kâtip Çelebi University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) İzmir Kâtip Çelebi University 2016 Central Management Final Account 100) THE UNIVERSE OF NECMETIN [[Continue]] A) Necmettin Erbakan University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Necmettin Erbakan University Central Management Termination Account for 2016 101) U.S. GÜL UNIVERSITY [[Continue]] A) Abdullah Gül University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Abdullah Gül University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 102) ERZURUUM TECHNIC UNIVERSITY [[Continue]] A) Central Management Budget for 2018 at Erzurum Technical University B) Erzurum Technical University 2016 Central Management Final Account 103) THE UNIVERSE OF ADANA AND TEKNOLOGY [[Continue]] A) Adana University of Science and Technology 2018 Central Management Budget B) Adana University of Science and Technology 2016 Central Management Final Account 104) THE UNIVERSE OF ANKARA SOCIAL MEMORY [[Continue]] a) Ankara University of Social Sciences Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Ankara University of Social Sciences 2016 Central Management Final Account 105) UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE MEDICINES [[Continue]] A) Health Sciences University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Health Sciences University Central Management Account for 2016 106) BANDIRM ON SEPTEMBER UNIVERSITY [[Continue]] A) Bandirma Seventeen Eylül University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Bandirma Seventeen Eylül University Central Management Terms 107) THE TECHNIC UNIVERSE OF SOLDIER [[Continue]] A) Alexanderun Technical University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) İskenderun Technical University Central Management Account for 2016 108) ALANYA ALAADDIN KEYCUT UNIVERSITY [[Continue]] A) Alanya Aladdin Keycubat University Central Management Budget for 2018 B) Alanya Aladdin Keykubat University 2016 Central Management Terms 109) INTERVIEW UNIVERSE [[Continue]] a) İzmir Bakırçay University Central Management Budget for 2018 110) UNIVERSITY OF EMPTY DEMOCRASI [[Continue]] a) İzmir University of Democracy Central Management Budget for 2018 Members of lawmakers, I will now take part in the seventh round, respectively, in the matter of the budget and the transfer of certain accounts into the chapters, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Congressmans, I submit to your votes that the Ministry of the European Union will take part in the central management budget of 2018: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) Ministry of the European Union's Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 345.652,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,209,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 346,861.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of the European Union adopted parts of the central management budget in 2018. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of the European Union shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account for 2016: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2016 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 304.758,000.00 Budget Expenses 294.489.739.90 Canceled Fund 10.268.260.10 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of the European Union has been adopted into parts of the central management account in 2016. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Accreditation Agency shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2018: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.21) TÜRK AKRIDITASYON BUILDING 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 227,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 17.3333,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 17.560.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 20,701.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 19,460.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 40.161,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Turkish Accreditation Agency adopted parts of the central management budget in 2018. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Accreditation Foundation shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2016: those who have not accepted... those who have not accepted... have been accepted. 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 30,588,820.00 Budget Expenses 24.951.566.24 Canceled Fund 5,637,253,76 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget revenue estimate 30.233,000.00 Collection 34.194.693,72 Refuge and Returns 1,816.00 Net Collection 34.192.877,72 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Turkish Accreditation Agency has been accepted as part of its final account of central management in 2016. I submit to your votes that the National Ministry of Education shall take part in the central management budget of 2018: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Ministry of National Education Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 4.920.658,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5,350,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 222.177,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 87,380,467,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 92.528.652,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of National Education was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2018. I submit to your votes that the National Ministry of Education shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2016: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) National Ministry of Education 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 62,153,242,273,15 Budget Expenses 73.999.964.371.95 Subsidiary Expenses 16,284,678,441,38 Canceled allowance 4.313.901.692.42 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 4,176,674,521,41 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of National Education of 2016 was adopted into parts of the central administration's final account. I submit to your votes that the chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement shall be transferred to the central management budgets of 2018: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 40.01) DEATH, CHOICE AND CENTER OF RESPONSIBILITY 1) The Central Management Budget for 2018 is the chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 01 General Public Service 28.411.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.724,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 505.415,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 537.550,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 578.432,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 10,800,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 589.232,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2018. I submit to your votes that the presidency of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement of the Central Management account of 2016 be transferred to the chapters of the final account: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Metric, Selection and Placement Centre Chairman 2016 Central Management Terms (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 713.905.800.00 Budget Expenses 671,454,390,57 Cancelled Fund 42,451,409,43 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 490,000,000.00 Collection 817,754,468,25 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement has been adopted as part of the final account of the central administration in 2016. I submit to your votes that the Board of Higher Education shall take part in the central management budget of 2018: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 38.01) THE HIGH SCHOOL BUILDING 1) The Board of Higher Education 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 36,111,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 62.042,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 98.153,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 536,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 97.522,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 95,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 98.153,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Board of Higher Education was adopted in 2018 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the board of higher education shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account of 2016: those who have not accepted... those who have not. 2) The Board of Higher Education 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 114,254,560.03 Budget Expenses 105,545,977,15 Canceled Fund 8,708,582,88 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 46.038,000.00 Collection 159,173,949,63 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Members of parliament, the departments of the High School Board's final account in 2016 have been approved. Members of lawmakers, I will now submit to you a separate reading of the university's central management budgets for 2018 and the transfer of the central management account for 2016. I submit to your votes that the budgets for the 2018 years of colleges will be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit07spe0395par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission and the government are in place. Congressmans, I'm now reading income sheets with the budgets for colleges' budgets for 2018: 38.02) ANKARA UNIVERSE a) Ankara University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 58,711,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 8.695,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 174.112,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 29.556,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 662,742,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 933,816,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 26.421.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 884,074,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 23.321.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 933.816,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.03) ORTA EAST TECHNIC UNIVERSITY A) Central Management Budget for 2018 Middle East Technical University 01 General Public Service 70.898,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 7.405,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 3.377,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 8.107,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 400,230.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 490.017,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 36,359.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 439.132,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 14.526,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 490.017,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.04) HACETTEPE UNIVERSITY a) Hacettepe University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 82,902,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 17.408,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 175.343,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 14.023,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 642,413.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 932,089.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 25.603,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 876.097,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 30,389.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 932,089,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.05) GAZI UNIVERSE A) Gazi University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 81.033,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 15.563,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 155,023,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 13.857,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 601.397,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 866,873,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 15.262,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 814,497,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 37.114,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 866,873,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.06) ISTANBUL UNIVERSITY a) İstanbul University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 117.735,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 25,11,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 238.174,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 6.911,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 883.264,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Services 1,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 1.272.285,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 54.277,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 1,153,404,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 64,604,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 1,272,285,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.07) ISTANBUL TECHNIC UNIVERSITY a) İstanbul Technical University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 65,33,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 12.209,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 12.354,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 404.926,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 494,820,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 32.302,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 453,637,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 8,881000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 494,820,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.08) THE UNIVERSE OF THE BOUGS a) Boğaziçi University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 59,155,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.225,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 13.600,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 195,582,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 273,562,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 22.831,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Earnings 246,698,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 4,033,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 273,562,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.09) MARMARA UNIVERSE A) The Central Management Budget of the University of Marmara 2018 01 General Public Service 38,853,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 14.142,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 39,712,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 5,424,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 493,948,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 592,079.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 37,687,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 530,486,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 23.906,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 592.079,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.10) STAR TECHNIC UNIVERSITY A) Star Technical University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 29.100,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 8.848,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 5.79,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 257.067,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 300,794,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 14.071.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Funds and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 8.169,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 300.794,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.11) MINAR SINAN ARTS UNIVERSE A) Architect Sinan University of Fine Arts 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 18.334,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.285,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.309,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 122.355,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 128,283,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 2.308,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 143,488,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2.487,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 128,283,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.12) EGE UNIVERSE A) Ege University's Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 61,411.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.827,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 163,891000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4,884,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 527,091.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 764.104,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 30,371.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 711,003,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 22,730.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 764.104,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.13) NINE SEPTEMBER UNIVERSITY A) 9 September University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 57,791.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 7.092,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 95,160,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 8.423,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 498.988,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 667.454,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 23.630.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 612,952,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 30,872,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 667.454,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.14) TRACIA UNIVERSITY A) Thracian University's Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 29.360,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.952,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 46,874,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 7.137,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 226,508,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 316,831,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 15.636,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 286,796,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 14.399.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 316.831,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.15) UNIVERSE A) Uludağ University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 37.497,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 7.826,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 88,373,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4,360,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 379,451.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 517.507,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 29.690.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Influences 462,355,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 25.462,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 517.507,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.16) UNIVERSITY OF ANADOLU a) Anadolu University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 69.036,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.432,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.761,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 486.135,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 565.364,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 19.992,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 384,470.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 160,902,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 565.364,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.17) SELCUT UNIVERSE A) Selçuk University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 85.176,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 7.490.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 39.756,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.466,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 390.895,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 525,783,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 42,220,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 457,403,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 26.090.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 525,783,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.18) THE UNIVERSE OF THE Mediterranean a) Mediterranean University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 22.818,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 9.583.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 95,439000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,813.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 357.758,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 487,411.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 14.289,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 454,393,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 18,729000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 487.411.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.19) ERCIA UNIVERSITY a) Ercijas University's Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 34,893,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 7.697,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 70.994,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.642,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 349.341,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 465.567,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 19,491.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Influences with Donations and Aids 431,132,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 14.944,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 465.567,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.20) REPUBLIC UNIVERSITY A) Republican University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 28.972,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.664,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 82,010.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.916,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 281,046,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 399,608,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 14.602,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 370,288,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 14.718,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 399.608,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.21) CHIKUROVA UNIVERSE A) Çukurova University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 79,629.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 91,869,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3,101,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 352.504,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Aid Services 1,770,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 532,873,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 19,137,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 491,216,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 22.518,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Profits 2,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 532,873,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.22) ONDOCUZ MAY UNIVERSE a) Central Management Budget, May 19, University of May 2018 01 General Public Service 32.234,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 8.367,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 58.756,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3,160,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 333,744,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 436,261000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 21.188,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 396,405,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 18,668,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 436.261.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.23) KARADENENiz TECHNIC UNIVERSITY A) Black Sea Technical University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 40.587,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 9.035,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 67,866,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.765,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 339.343,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 459.596,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 22.875,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 418.998,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1773,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 459.596,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.24) ATATURK UNIVERSITY a) Ataturk University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 54.433,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 7.002,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 45,400,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3,6799,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 451,974,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 562.488,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 22.690.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 517,474,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 22.324,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 562.488,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.25) UNIVERSE OF MAN A) Inönu University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 44.197,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.490.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 80,059,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4,3333,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 260,400,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 395,479.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 12.392,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 369.228,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 13.859.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 395.479.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.26) FIRAT UNIVERSE a) Firat University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 49,031.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.249,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 39.505,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.837,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 282.447,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 376,069,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 16.123,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 348,071000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 11.875,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 376,069,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.27) DICLE UNIVERSE a) Dicle University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 46,464,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 8.170,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 61,473,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2,543.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 250,365,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 369.015,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 11.632,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 345,641.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 11.742,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 369.015,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.28) VAN CENTURY UNIVERSITY a) Van Centennial University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 38.022,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 7.356,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 32,319000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 7.500,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 261,848,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 347.045,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 6,983,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 328,845,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 11.217,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 347.045,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.29) GAZIANTEP UNIVERSITY a) Gaziantep University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 23.535,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.579.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 55.236,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.247,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 243,859000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 331,456,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 16,581.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 300,933,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 13.942,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 331,456,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.30) a) Izmir Institute of Higher Technology Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 15.515,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.632,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.357,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 86,770,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 106,294,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1.148,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 103,486,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,660,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 106.294,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.31) GEBZE TECHNIC UNIVERSITY A) Gebze Technical University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 12.426,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.822,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.463,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 98,003,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 115,714,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 1.075,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 113,369.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,270,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 115,714,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.32) HARRAN UNIVERSE a) Harran University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 25.341.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.961,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 22.748,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,606,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 171,003,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 224,659.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 5,149,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 213,099,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 6,411.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 224,659000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.33) SULAYMAN UNIVERSE A) Suleiman Demirel University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 30.267,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.659.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 33.171,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.495,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 343.141,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 416,733,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 17.654,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 384,737,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 14.342,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 416,733,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.34) ADNAN MANDERES UNIVERSITY A) Adnan Menderes University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 21.014,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.054,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 51,313.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.787,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 252.512,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 331,680.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 12.455,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 309.19,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 10.026,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 331,680.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.35) THE UNIVERSE OF BULENT EGEVITY a) Bulent Ecevit University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 20.231,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 7.273,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 29.660.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,741.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 177.922,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Services 1,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 237.827,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 11.061,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 214,875,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 11.891000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 237.827,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.36) MERSIN UNIVERSE A) Mersin University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 28.032,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.496,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 46.847,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,853,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 257.557,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Services 600,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 340.385,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 12.166,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 317.022,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 11.197,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 340.385,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.37) PAMUKKALE UNIVERSITY A) Pamukkale University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 31,183,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 50,164,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,607,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 265.267,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 351,221.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 16.028,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 323,839.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 11.354,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 351,221.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.38) UNIVERSE A) Balıkesir University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 15.055,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.708,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 7.013,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,518,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 169,847,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Gen. TOPLAM 199.141.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 14.443,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 180.435,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 4,263,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 199.141,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.39) COCALE UNIVERSITY A) The Central Management Budget of the 2018 University of Marseilles 01 General Public Service 26.871,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 10.066,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 48,213.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.878,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 301,979.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 390.007,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 27.140,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 349.116,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 13.751000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 390.007,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. I've observed that Mr. Akar and Mr. Sugar have voted to accept. Good luck with that.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit07spe0396par0914	I have not given, neither have I given, but he has been given his due.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit07spe0395par0915	You didn't take it?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit07spe0396par0916	He's getting the better of him. We have greatness in the 7th place, we get funding in the 22nd place. 38.40) SAKARY UNIVERSITY A) Sakarya University's Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 28.600,000
tbmm-2017-12-18sit07spe0397par0921	All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.922,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.566,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 300,324,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 338.412,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Attempts and Property Profits 38,788,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 289,271.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 10,353,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 338.412,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.41) MANISA CELAL BAYER UNIVERSE A) Manisa Celal Bayar University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 22.676,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.291,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 40.907,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,680.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 245.377,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 316,931.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 17.148,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 288.152,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 11.631,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 316,911,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.42) ABANT UNIVERSE A) Abant Izzet Baysal University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 17.198,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.453,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 10.558,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.239000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 185,916,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Services 100,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 221.464,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 10.678,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 203.868,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 6,918,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 221.464,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.43) MUSTAFA CEMAL UNIVERSE a) Mustafa Kemal University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 18.11,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.267,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 31,449.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.315,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 152.241.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 208.393,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 8.547,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 194.466,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 5,380,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 208.393,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.44) AFYON KOCATEPE UNIVERSITY A) Afyon Kocatepe University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 30,918,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.611.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 40.352,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.226,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 181,820,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Services 100,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 262.027,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 12.448,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 239,218,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 10,361,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 262.027,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.45) KAFKAS UNIVERSITY A) Kafkas University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 12.622,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.991,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 17.571,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 984,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 142.759,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 177.927,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 5,685,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 167,473,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 4,7699,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 177.927,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.46) CHUNKKALE ONSELVES MART UNIVERSITY A) Çanakkale University of March 18, 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 56,989,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 8.074,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 31.244,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.304,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 194.812,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 294.423,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 13.675,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 272.995,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 7.753,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 294.423,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.47) THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE A) Niğde Ömer Halisdemir University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 14.294,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.546,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.677,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 141.142,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 161,659.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 5.925,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 151,714,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 4,020,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 161,659.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.48) DUMLUPINAR UNIVERSITY A) Dumlupınar University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 20,408,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.393,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 4.411.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4.298,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 195,265,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 230,775,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 20,877,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 202.997,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 6,901000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 230.775,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.49) Gaziosmanpasha UNIVERSITY A) Gaziosmanpaşa University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 19,657,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.859.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 39,773,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.252,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 181.392,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 253,93,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 6,399.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Influences With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 7.677,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 249.933,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.50) STUDIES STUDENT UNIVERSITY A) Mugla Sıtkı Koçman University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 24.19,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.539.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 1.275,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.11,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 228,573 000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 260.777,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 12.727,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 241,654,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 6.396,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 260.777,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.51) KAHRAMANMARM SURVIVE UNIVERSE A) Heromarash Milker Imam University Central Management Budget of 2018 01 General Public Service 19.999,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.439.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 30.307,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2,002,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 192.274,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 259.021.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 10.291.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 233.635,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 5.095,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 259.021.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.52) }KIRIKKALE UNIVERSITY A) Kırıkkale University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 17.611.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.339.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 7.264,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.507,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 197,402,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 230.123,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 8.913,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 213,950.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 7.260.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 230.123,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.53) EXECUTE OSMANGAZI UNIVERSITY A) Eskişehir Osmangazi University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 28.855,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.418,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 73,289,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.33,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 240.696,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Services 400,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 352.981.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 16,841.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 323,472,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 12.668,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 352.981.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.54) GALATASARAY UNIVERSITY a) Galatasaray University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 10.459.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.589.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,875,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 75,788,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Services 100,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 91,811,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 8.140,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 81,739.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,932,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 91,811,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.55) THE UNIVERSE OF THE EVIL A) Ahi Evran University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 15.477,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.552,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 18.400,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4,663,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 117.178,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 159.270,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 4,701,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 151,402,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 3.167,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 159.270.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.56) UNIVERSITY OF KASTAMON a) Kastamonon University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 26.610.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.883,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.358,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 112,061,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 145,912,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 3,181,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Influences With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2,761,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 145,912,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.57) UNIVERSE A) Düzce University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 14.509,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.754,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 38,855,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.447,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 149,339.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 207.904,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.164,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 201,814,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2.926,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 207.904,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.58) MEHMET AKIF ERSOY UNIVERSITY A) Mehmet Akif Ersoy University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 7.090.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4,618,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.772,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 131,876,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 145,356,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 3,680.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 137.998,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 3,678,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 145,356,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.59) THE UNIVERSE A) Uğur University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 11.868,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3,900,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 2.080.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,614,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 112,672,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 132.134,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 6.326,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 122,979.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2,829000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 132.134,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit07spe0398par1395	It's little, but we've accepted it, Minister.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit07spe0397par1396	Did you say something, Mr. Eater?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit07spe0398par1397	I swear to God, I told the Minister. We found it rare at Butler University, but we had to accept it. Next year we'll have more...
tbmm-2017-12-18sit07spe0397par1398	Mr. Özkan has agreed, my friends, for your information. 38.60) RECEP TERRORAL UNIVERSE A) Recep Tayyip Erdogan University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 11.825,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.720.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 2,150,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.238,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 151.314,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 172.607,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 4.526,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 164,455,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 3.626,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 172.607,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.61) NAMI KEMAL UNIVERSE A) Namik Kemal University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 12.692,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4,480.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 11.980.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,656,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 153,993,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 184.801,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 6,916,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 173,806,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 4,079,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 184.801.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.62) ERZINCAN UNIVERSITY A) Erzincan University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 19.142,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.692,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,087,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 127,503,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 150.424,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 4,770,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 142.312,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 3.142,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 150.424,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.63) AKSARAY UNIVERSITY a) Aksaray University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 9.453,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.739.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,650,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 115.635,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 129.477,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 4.227,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 123,762,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,488,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 129.477,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.64) THE UNIVERSE OF ENTERMENT a) Giresun University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 11.733,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.536,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 4,041,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,388,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 138.046,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 159,744,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 4,849.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 149,182,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 5,713.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 159,744,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.65) HETIT UNIVERSITY A) Hitit University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 9.506,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.537,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.514,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 116,160,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 131,717,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2.727,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 126,637,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2,33,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 131,717,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.66) BOZOK UNIVERSE A) Bozok University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 18.903,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.165,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 23.574,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,069,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 109,443,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 156.154,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 4,050.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 149,764,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2,350,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 156.154,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.67) THE UNIVERSE OF ADIYAMAN A) Adıyaman University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 17.228,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.110,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 9.573.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,120,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 116,570.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Services 2,500,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 151,101.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 4.347,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 144.795,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,958,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Profits 1,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 151.101.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.68) ORDU UNIVERSITY A) Military University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 14.011,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.500,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 5,163,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,981,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 108,002,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 132.657,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 3.399.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 126,344,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2,914,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 132.657,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.69) AMASIA UNIVERSITY A) Amasya University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 10.226,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.522,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 696,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 85,693,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 100.137,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.093,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 95.314,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1.730.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 100.137,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.70) CENTURY UNIVERSE A) Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 8.169,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.276,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,036,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 82,272,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Services 17,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 93,950.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.206,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 89,588,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,156,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 93.950.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.71) ALONG IBRAHAM UNIVERSE A) Ağrı İbrahim Chechn University 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 7.089,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.053,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,208,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 75,894,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 87.244,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 1,884,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 83.577,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,783,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 87.244,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.72) SINOP UNIVERSE A) Sinop University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 10.808,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.337,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4,970.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 81,249,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 99.364,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 1.717,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 96,480.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,167,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 99.364,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.73) CIRT UNIVERSE A) Siirt University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 9.399.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.449.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,419,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 83,742,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 97,009,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 1,473,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 94,407,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,129,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 97,009,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.74) NUCHIHIHELVES VICTIM UNIVERSE A) Nevşehir Haci Bektaş Veli University Central Management Budget 2018 01 General Public Service 11.505,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,100,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.547,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 86,074,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 101.226,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2,844,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 96.362,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2,020,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 101.226,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.75) CONTROL UNIVERSE A) Karabuk University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 13.578,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.674,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,367,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 176,393,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 196,012,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 6,841.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 184.068,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 5,103,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 196.012,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.76) CHURCH UNIVERSITY OF DECEMBER 7 A) Church University of December 7th 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 8.99,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.480.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 683.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 64,577,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 76,719.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2.417,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 72,707,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1.595,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 76,719000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.77) THE UNIVERSE OF CHUNKIRI KATEKIN A) Çanırı Karatekin University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 14.353,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4,618,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 893000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 96,654,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 116,518,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 3,474,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 111,645,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,399.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 116,518,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.78) ARVIN UNIVERSITY OF CORUH A) Artvin Çoruh University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 8.587,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.642,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,450,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 77,788,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 90.557,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1.785,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 87.282,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,490.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 90.557,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Congressmans, the city of the organization and salvation is the University of Sheikh Edebali... 38.79) THE UNIVERSE OF BILECTIC HEITH A) Bilecik Sheikh Edebali University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 8.908,000 Members of parliament, those who do not accept... are unanimous. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.068,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 846,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 95,563,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 108.385,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 3,700,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 102,810.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,875,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 108.385,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Thank you, lawmakers. [[Applause]] 38.80) BITIS EREN UNIVERSE a) Bitlis Eren University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 9,002,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.729000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,037,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 75,960.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 89,728,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 949.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 87,721.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,058,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 89,728,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.81) THE UNIVERSE OF RIVERSALS A) Cırklareli University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 8.899.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.109,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,429000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 102,865,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 116.302,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 5,439.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 108,424,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2,439.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 116.302,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.82) OSMANIA SCARED ATA UNIVERSITY A) Osmaniye Korkuş University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 12.901.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.453,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.255,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 67,966,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 85.575,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2.983,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 81,453,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,139.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 85.575,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.83) BINGO UNIVERSITY a) Bingol University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 13.435,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.097,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,409,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 91,930.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 109,871.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 2.026,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 107,043,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 802,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 109,871.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.84) MUDI ALPARSLAN UNIVERSITY A) Muş Alparslan University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 9.849.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.354,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 753,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 90,089,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 104,045,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 980,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 101,417,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,648,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 104,045,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.85) MARDIN UNIVERSE UNIVERSE a) Mardin Artuklu University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 11.608,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.630.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,207,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 86,840.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 103,285,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 835,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 101,275,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,175,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 103,285,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.86) BATMAN UNIVERSITY A) Batman University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 14.045,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.488,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,074,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 78,945,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 97.552,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 1.902,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 95.118,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 532,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 97.552,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.87) ARDAHAN UNIVERSE a) Ardahan University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 6.132,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.380,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 686,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 68.324,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 77.522,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 1.232,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 75,509,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 781.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 77.522,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.88) THE UNIVERSE OF BARTIN A) Bartın University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 9.018,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.380,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2,250,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 85,113,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 99.031.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2,380,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 95,183,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,468,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 99.031.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit08spe0397par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission and the government are in place. Congressmans, we stayed at Bayburt University, we continue. 38.89) MRBURT UNIVERSITY A) Bayburt University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 9.917,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.770,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,004,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 70.158,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 83,869,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2,220,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 80,521.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,058,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 83,869,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.90) STRIKE UNIVERSITY A) Silver Hall University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 8.797,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.289,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,403,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 88,329000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 102,818,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 4,369.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 96,623000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,826,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 102,818,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.91) THE RIGHTS UNIVERSE a) Hakkari University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 11.634,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.178,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 778,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 35.485,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 50.075,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 429000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 48.995,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 651,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 50.075,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.92) STRIKE UNIVERSE A) Iğdır University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 8.051,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.457,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.077,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 60,461,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 72.046,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,165,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 70.096,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 785,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 72.046,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.93) SIRNAK UNIVERSE a) Şırnak University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 10.344,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.975,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 808,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 51.597,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 64,724,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 267,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 63,748,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 709,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 64,724,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.94) MUNZUR UNIVERSE A) Munzur University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 8.736,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.311,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 616,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 75,306,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 86,969.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,583.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 84,250,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1.146,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 86,969000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.95) YALOVA UNIVERSE A) Yalova University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 10.942,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,502,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,604,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 77.392,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 91,450,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,251.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 88,453,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,736,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 91.440.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.96) Turkish German University a) Turkish German University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 5.668,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,081,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 779.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 56,538,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 64.066,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 29,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 63,977,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 60,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 64.066,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.97) ANKARA STAR BEYAZIT UNIVERSITY A) Ankara Yıldırım Akıt University 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 27.011,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.509,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 218,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,786,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 136,004,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 168,528,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,049.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 166,776,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 703,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 168.528,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.98) BURSA TECHNIC UNIVERSITY a) Bursa Technical University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 6.094,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,936,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,856,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 53,404,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 63,220,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 20,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 63,071000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 199000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 63,220,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.99) ISTANBUL UNIVERSE a) İstanbul Civility University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 12:408,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.813.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,155,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 90,848,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 108,224,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 162,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 107,801000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 261,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 108.224,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.01) UNIVERSITY OF EMPLOYMENT a) İzmir Kıtip Çelebi University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 14.097,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.281,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Worth Services 6.292,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,461,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 120,948,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 145,079.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,918,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 142,061.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,100,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 145,079,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.02) THE UNIVERSE OF NECMETIN A) Necmettin Erbakan University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 16.433,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.605,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 101,429000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,193,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 234.021.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 355,681.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 7.279000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 341,184,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 7.218,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 355,681000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.03) U.S.A. GÜL UNIVERSITY a) Abdullah Gul University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 9.689,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,391,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,424,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 47,473,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 59.977,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 5,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 59.837,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 135,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 59.977,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.04) ERZURUUM TECHNIC UNIVERSITY A) Central Management Budget for 2018 at Erzurum Technical University 01 General Public Service 6.834,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,422,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 387,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 55,954,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 64.597,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 71.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 64,389.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 137,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 64.597,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.05) THE UNIVERSE OF ADANA AND TEKNOLOJI A) Adana University of Science and Technology 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 10.559.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,762,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,517,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 58,677,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 72,515,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 21,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 72,336,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 158,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 72,515,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.06) ANKARA SOCIAL UNIVERSE a) Ankara University of Social Sciences Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 5.901.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.867,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 31,973,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 41.147,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 81,888,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 81,864,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 24,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 81,888,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.07) THE UNIVERSITY OF INTERVIEWS A) Health Sciences University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 50.396,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.471,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,271,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 197,484,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 255.622,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 83.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 244,870.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 10,669,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 255.622,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.08) BANDIRM ON SEPTEMBER UNIVERSITY A) Bandirma Seventeen Eylül University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 4.170,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,826,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 646,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 58.342,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 64,984,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 1.444,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 62,339.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,191,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 64,984,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.09) THE UNIVERSE OF SOLDIER A) Alexanderun Technical University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 5.996,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,700,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,035,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 79.047,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 88,778,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.656,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 83.494,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,628,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 88,778,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.10) ALANYA ALAADDIN KEYKUBAT UNIVERSITY A) Alanya Aladdin Keycubat University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 3.096,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.788,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 73.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 892,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 55,183,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 62.032,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 833.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 60,257,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 942,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 62.032,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.12) INTERVIEW UNIVERSE a) İzmir Bakırçay University Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 3.978,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,100,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,049,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 23.677,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 29.804,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 51.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 29,403,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 350,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 29.804,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.13) INTERVIEW DEMOCRASI UNIVERSITY a) İzmir University of Democracy Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 4.318,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 800,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,049,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 25,900,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 32.067,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 51.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 31,666,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 350,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 32.067,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. So the departments of university budgets in 2018 were adopted. Congressmans, I submit to your votes that the final accounts of the universities in 2016 be transferred to the chapters: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. I'm reading the general sums of the exponents (B) with the expense ruler: 38.02) ANKARA UNIVERSE B) Ankara University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 889.658.317.69 Budget Expenses 849.796.306.45 Canceled Grant 39,839,141,46 Transferred to the Next Year's Payment 603,429,78 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 813.176,000.00 Collection 858.932.750,73 Ret and Returns 419.432.96 Net Collection 858,513,317,77 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.03) ORTA EAST TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) Middle East Technical University Central Management Account for 2016 Total allowance 529.191.821.79 Budget Expenses 497.877.269.57 Canceled Fund 31,283,050,38 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 31,501,84 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 459,865,000.00 Collection 522.417.393.83 Ret and Returns 1,208,074,02 Net Collection 521.209.319.81 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.04) HACETTEPE UNIVERSITY B) Hacettepe University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 861,720,498,27 Budget Expenses 784.693.830.63 Cancelled Fund 76,083,247,18 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 943,420,46 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 789.512,000.00 Collection 782.304.351.49 Ret and Returns 1,247,334,10 Net Collection 781,057,017,39 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.05) GAZI UNIVERSE B) Gazi University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 820.390.684.48 Budget Expenses 719,288,092.65 Canceled Fund 101.102.591.69 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 0.14 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 734.137,000.00 Collection 711.485.743.25 Ret and Returns 1,014.967.83 Net Collection 710,470,775,42 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.06) ISTANBUL UNIVERSITY B) İstanbul University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total Payment 1,174,546,523,40 Budget Expenses 1,070.794.324.24 Canceled Fund 103,629,888,40 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 122.310.76 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 1,082.002,000.00 Collection 1,047,942.052,27 Ret and Returns 281.597.33 Net Collection 1,047,660,454,94 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.07) ISTANBUL TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) İstanbul Technical University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 509,580.892.72 Budget Expenses 485.146.452.63 Canceled Fund 24,434,440,09 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 490,625,52 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 420.577,000.00 Collection 504.335.506,71 Ret and returns 425,702,81 Net Collection 503.909.803.90 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.08) THE UNIVERSE OF THE BOUGS B) Boğaziçi University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 299,871,801,80 Budget Expenses 262.100.893.28 Cancelled Grant 37,690,047,76 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 166,841,46 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 236,618,000,00 Collection 263,448.199,15 Rejections 384,785,27 Net Collection 263,063,413,88 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.09) MARMARA UNIVERSE B) Marmara University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 607.810.770.58 Budget Expenses 521.692.787.26 Canceled Fund 86,117,836,27 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 147.05 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 516,591.00 Collection 499.166.292.63 Ret and Returns 1,044.308,41 Net Collection 498.121.984.22 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.10) STAR TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) Yıldız Technical University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total grant 313,345,803,82 Budget Expenses 293.195.146.66 Canceled Fund 20.150.657.16 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 281,115,000.00 Collection 277,221,933,82 Ret and Returns 366.216.44 Net Collection 276,855,717,38 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.11) MINAR SINAN ARTS UNIVERSE B) Architect Sinan Fine Arts University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 140.156.665.65 Budget Expenses 107,874.084.86 Canceled Fund 32.241.919.66 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 40,661,13 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 134.147,000.00 Collection 90.072.194.66 Refuge and Returns 20.402.94 Net Collection 90,051,791,72 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.12) EGE UNIVERSE B) Ege University 2016 Central Management Terminate Account Total Payment 712,618,713,91 Budget Expenses 676,513,563,90 Canceled Grant 36,105,150,01 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 656.263,000.00 Collection 647,657,907,65 Ret and Returns 398.242,74 Net Collection 647,259,664,91 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.13) NINE SEPTEMBER UNIVERSITY B) Nine Eylül University Central Administration Terminate Account for 2016 Total allowance 661,608,563.99 Budget Expenses 613.865.91.11 Canceled allowance 47,740.185,83 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 2,447.05 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimated 562.996,000.00 Collection 601,913,893,59 Ret and Returns 22.184,71 Net Collection 601,891,708,88 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.14) TRACIA UNIVERSITY B) Thrace University 2016 Central Management Terminate Account Total grant 322,186,613,19 Budget Expenses 257,352,685,62 Canceled allowance 64,833,927,57 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 275,574,000.00 Collection 266,723,979,04 Ret and Returns 689,74 Net Collection 266,723,289,30 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.15) UNIVERSE B) Uludağ University Central Management Account for 2016 Total allowance 459,311,871,47 Budget Expenses 409.861.536.27 Cancelled Fund 49,449,907,12 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 223,428,08 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 430,070.000.00 Collection 412,637.692,15 Ret and Returns 453,630,96 Net Collection 412,184,061,19 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.16) UNIVERSITY OF ANADOLU B) Anadolu University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 634,487,086,48 Budget Expenses 583.683.263.15 Cancelled Fund 50.592.686.20 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 211,137,13 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 476,600,000.00 Collection 597,310,863,55 Rejections 97.403.02 Net Collection 597,213,460,53 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.17) SELCUT UNIVERSE B) Selçuk University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total grant 519,027,284,93 Budget Expenses 472.023.299.13 Canceled Fund 47,003,985,80 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 457,644,000.00 Collection 470.023.260,01 Ret and Returns 1,435,012.51 Net Collection 468,588,247,50 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.18) THE UNIVERSE OF THE Mediterranean B) Mediterranean University 2016 Central Management Terms Total allowance 486,388,081,76 Budget Expenses 427,863,564,15 Canceled Fund 58,524,517,61 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 355,638,000,00 Collection 414,259,624,72 Rejections 2,585,867,48 Net Collection 411,673,757,24 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.19) ERCIA UNIVERSITY B) Ercijas University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 457,574.909,66 Budget Expenses 403,760,497,20 Canceled Fund 53.810.092.03 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 1,098,927,43 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 397.157,000.00 Collection 415,639,227,94 Rejections 653,850,51 Net Collection 414,985,377,43 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.20) REPUBLIC UNIVERSITY B) Cumhuriyet University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 343,493,085,32 Budget Expenses 315.102.083,46 Canceled Fund 28.391.001.86 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 314,508,000,00 Collection 312,945,218,26 Rejections and Returns 11.721.09 Net Collection 312,933,497,17 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.21) CHIKUROVA UNIVERSE B) Çukurova University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 524,256,886,88 Budget Expenses 453.101.217.79 Cancelled Grant 68,698,555,10 Transferred to the Next Year 2.457.113.99 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 468.223,000.00 Collection 460.021.450,40 Denied and returned 51,875,53 Net Collection 459.969.574.87 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.22) ONDOCUZ MAY UNIVERSE B) Nineteen May University Central Management Final Account for 2016 Total Payment 429,200,119,14 Budget Expenses 397.323.012.80 Canceled Fund 31,877,023,85 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 82.49 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 393,990.000.00 Collection 387,876,967,13 Rejections and Returns 88.191.42 Net Collection 387,788,775,71 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.23) KARADENENiz TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) Black Sea Technical University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total grant 415,929,100,00 Budget Expenses 390.898.480.34 Canceled Fund 25.030.619.66 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 388.546,000.00 Collection 383,544,164,27 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.24) ATATURK UNIVERSITY B) Ataturk University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 578,381,474,30 Budget Expenses 526.925.010.89 Canceled Fund 51,411,294,74 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 45.168.67 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 499,819.000,00 Collection 504.736.562.16 Ret and Returns 377.346.51 Net Collection 504.359.215.65 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.25) UNIVERSE OF MAN B) Inönü University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 356,881,917,86 Budget Expenses 344.405.013.18 Cancelled Fund 12.476.904.68 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 316.382,000.00 Collection 334,872.266,99 Refuge and Returns 227079,12 Net Collection 334,645,187,87 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.26) FIRAT UNIVERSE B) Fırat University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 358.995.213.07 Budget Expenses 328.087.450.56 Cancelled Fund 30.907.762.51 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 322,224,000.00 Collection 331,707,888,39 Ret and Returns 244.035,81 Net Collection 331,463,852,58 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.27) DICLE UNIVERSE B) Dicle University 2016 Central Management Terms Total allowance 356,167,540,96 Budget Expenses 325,432,573,62 Cancelled Fund 30,734,967,34 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 330.958,000.00 Collection 340,710,561,61 Ret and Returns 274.282,73 Net Collection 340,436,278,88 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.28) THE UNIVERSE OF THE YUNDAY B) Centennial University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 352.761.458.30 Budget Expenses 321.932.066.22 Cancelled Fund 30,829,392.08 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 310.209.000.00 Collection 325,072,888,96 Ret and Returns 257,281,53 Net Collection 324,815,607,43 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.29) GAZIANTEP UNIVERSITY B) Gaziantep University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total grant 325.192.020,46 Budget Expenses 305.469.966.05 Canceled Fund 19,722,054,41 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 272.334,000.00 Collection 301.401.383.94 Ret and Returns 196,601,13 Net Collection 301,204,782,81 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.30) B) İzmir Institute of Higher Technology 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 104,826,500,78 Budget Expenses 93.129.602.09 Canceled allowance 11.696,746,97 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 460,351,72 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 97,962,000.00 Collection 91.580.697.43 Refuge and Returns 5.302.00 Net Collection 91.575.395.43 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.31) GEBZE TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) Gebze Technical University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 112,650,778.00 Budget Expenses 110.994.430,41 Cancelled Fund 1.656.347.59 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 102,948,000.00 Collection 114.509.165,76 Ret and Returns 72,794.89 Net Collection 114,436,370,87 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.32) HARRAN UNIVERSE B) Harran University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 232.496.940.56 Budget Expenses 211.057.567.98 Canceled Fund 21.439.372.58 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 205,375,000.00 Collection 208,622,609,18 Ret and returns 77.676.16 Net Collection 208,544,933,02 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.33) SULAYMAN UNIVERSE B) Sulejman Demirel University Central Management Account for 2016 Total allowance 399,476,813,94 Budget Expenses 376,580,838,74 Canceled Fund 22.895.975.20 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 360.245,000.00 Collection 373,222,679,63 Ret and Returns 118,091,67 Net Collection 373.104.587.96 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.34) ADNAN MANDERES UNIVERSITY B) Adnan Menderes University 2016 Central Management Terms Total allowance 289,233,920,82 Budget Expenses 268.860.042.72 Canceled Fund 20,373,878,10 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 257,578,000,00 Collection 256,969,557,21 Ret and Returns 373.481.29 Net Collection 256,596,075,92 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.35) THE UNIVERSE OF BULENT EGEVITY B) Bült Ecevit University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total grant 247,501,904,46 Budget Expenses 208,886,692.04 Cancelled Grant 38,615,212,42 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 207,766,000.00 Collection 210,245,766,94 Ret and returns 85,229,40 Net Collection 210.160.537.54 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.36) MERSIN UNIVERSE B) Mersin University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total Payment 314.127.396.23 Budget Expenses 277.024.292.19 Cancelled Fund 36,945,325,8l The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 157,778,23 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 261,455,000.00 Collection 280.868.331.06 Ret and Returns 51.149.05 Net Collection 280.817.182.01 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.37) PAMUKKALE UNIVERSITY B) Pamukkale University 2016 Central Management Terms Total grant 321,316,381,54 Budget Expenses 286.883.016.29 Cancelled Fund 34,433,365,25 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 302.466,000.00 Collection 283,092.436,13 Rejections 84,252,47 Net Collection 283,008,183,66 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.38) UNIVERSE B) Balıkesir University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total Payment 201,774,184,84 Budget Expenses 180.593.706.51 Canceled Fund 21,180,478,33 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 179,074,000.00 Collection 180.970.391.82 Ret and Returns 358.339.51 Net Collection 180.612.052,31 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.39) COCALE UNIVERSITY B) Kopeeli University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total Payment 432,685,601,64 Budget Expenses 394.417.824.29 Cancelled Grant 38,267,777,35 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 325,729000,00 Collection 355.909.216.80 Ret and returns 991,848,32 Net Collection 354,917,368,48 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.40) SAKARY UNIVERSITY B) Sakarya University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 336,762.497,68 Budget Expenses 322,712,593,80 Canceled Fund 14.046,975,55 Transferred to the Next Year 2.928.33 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 299,815,000.00 Collection 329.420.528.86 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.41) MANISA CELAL BAYER UNIVERSE B) Manisa Celal Bayar University 2016 Central Management Terms Total allowance 291,504,011,47 Budget Expenses 263.245.247.69 Canceled Fund 28,258,035,74 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 728.04 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 268,283,000,00 Collection 276,073,333,04 Ret and Returns 885.906.91 Net Collection 275.187.426,13 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.42) ABANT UNIVERSE B) Abant Izzet Baysal University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total Payment 206,404,125,48 Budget Expenses 197,937,307,91 Canceled Fund 8.466.817.57 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 130.198.15 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 192.739.000.00 Collection 210,378,380,21 Ret and Returns 304.758,57 Net Collection 210,073,621,64 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Our Bolu MP, Mr. Fehmi Cubic, also voted to accept. 38.43) MUSTAFA CEMAL UNIVERSE B) Mustafa Kemal University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 213,524,408,78 Budget Expenses 182.645.581.99 Cancelled Grant 30,878,826,79 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 193.192,000.00 Collection 185.695.307,84 Ret and Returns 167,983,15 Net Collection 185,527,324,69 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.44) AFYON KOCATEPE UNIVERSITY B) Afyon Kocatepe University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 271,357,630,43 Budget Expenses 252.058.668.15 Canceled Fund 19,298,962.28 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 237.996,000.00 Collection 252.544.770.92 Ret and Returns 131,886,26 Net Collection 252.412.884.66 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.45) KAFKAS UNIVERSITY B) Kafkas University 2016 Central Management Terms Total allowance 174.838.166,74 Budget Expenses 151,175,776,04 Canceled Fund 23.662.390.70 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 158,157,000.00 Collection 160,005,481,61 Rejections 4,408,40 Net Collection 160,001,073,21 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.46) CHUNKKALE ONSELVES MART UNIVERSITY B) Çanakkale 18 Mart University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total grant 306,887,838,11 Budget Expenses 275.431.646.35 Canceled Fund 31,456,191,76 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 278.952,000.00 Collection 272,175,193,13 Rejections 335.017.24 Net Collection 271,840,175,89 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.47) VICTIM UNIVERSE B) Ömer Halisdemir University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 161,284,085,58 Budget Expenses 144.177.424.85 Canceled Fund 17.106.660.73 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 135,966,000,00 Collection 149,328.194,94 Ret and Returns 236,258,95 Net Collection 149.091.935.99 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.48) DUMLUPINAR UNIVERSITY B) Dumlupınar University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 226,651,736,49 Budget Expenses 203.203.945.47 Canceled Fund 23.447.791.02 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 201.189.000.00 Collection 203,681,747,98 Ret and Returns 225.405.58 Net Collection 203,456,342,40 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.49) Gaziosmanpasha UNIVERSITY B) Gaziosmanpaşa University 2016 Central Management Terms Total allowance 230,982.251,80 Budget Expenses 213.161.419.17 Canceled Fund 17.820.832.63 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 214,942,000.00 Collection 216,932,437,72 Ret and returns 85.652.58 Net Collection 216,846,785,14 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.50) STUDIES STUDENT UNIVERSITY B) Muğla Sıtkı Koçman University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 233,042,557.00 Budget Expenses 220.891.123.69 Canceled Fund 12:151,433,31 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 217.574,000.00 Collection 224.152.191,82 Ret and Returns 139,879,43 Net Collection 224,012,312,39 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.51) KAHRAMANMARM SURVIVE UNIVERSE B) Kahramanmarash Milkyman İmam University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total Payment 239,430,554,30 Budget Expenses 225.263.436.07 Canceled Fund 14.167.118.23 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 213,887,000.00 Collection 222.643.414.42 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.52) }KIRIKKALE UNIVERSITY B) Kırıkkale University Central Management Account for 2016 Total allowance 232.997.476.90 Budget Expenses 220.737.121.60 Canceled allowance 12.260.355.30 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 203,197,000.00 Collection 220.761.264.94 Ret and Returns 260.777.73 Net Collection 220,500,487,21 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.53) EXECUTE OSMANGAZI UNIVERSITY B) Eskişehir Osmangazi University 2016 Central Executive Term Total allowance 331,502.062.00 Budget Expenses 312,783,409,07 Canceled Fund 18,718,652,93 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 309,588,000,00 Collection 306,097,190,92 Ret and Returns 155,749,87 Net Collection 305.941.441.05 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.54) GALATASARAY UNIVERSITY B) Galatasaray University Central Management Terms 2016 Total allowance 77.104.645.37 Budget Expenses 69,706,383,21 Canceled Fund 7.398.262,16 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 72,469.000.00 Collection 62,663,311,97 Ret and Returns 101.484.95 Net Collection 62,561,827,02 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.55) THE UNIVERSE OF THE EVIL B) Ahi Evran University 2016 Central Management Terms Total allowance 156,034,969,88 Budget Expenses 133,426,314,57 Canceled Fund 22.608.655,31 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 118,793,000,00 Collection 127,688.199,43 Ret and Returns 51.072.85 Net Collection 127,637.126,58 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.56) UNIVERSITY OF KASTAMON B) Kastamono University 2016 Central Management Termination Account Total allowance 140,169,013,78 Budget Expenses 119.931.522.61 Canceled Fund 20.207.724.60 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 29.766,57 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 118,735,000.00 Collection 117,728,918,32 Ret and Returns 8.794.01 Net Collection 117.720.124,31 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.57) UNIVERSE B) Düzce University 2016 Central Management Terminate Account Total allowance 184.356.586.58 Budget Expenses 174,352,288,73 Canceled Fund 10,004.297.85 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 166,899.00 Collection 173,656,840,58 Ret and Returns 189,429,73 Net Collection 173,467,410,85 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.58) MEHMET AKIF ERSOY UNIVERSITY B) Mehmet Akif Ersoy University 2016 Central Management Terms Total allowance 142.155.083.30 Budget Expenses 136.044.244.58 Canceled Fund 5,972.992.18 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 137,846,54 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 124.509.000.00 Collection 143,443,638,41 Ret and Returns 194.982,40 Net Collection 143,248,656,01 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.59) THE UNIVERSE B) Uğur University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 143,136,023,48 Budget Expenses 138.374.624.83 Canceled Payment 4,726,348,35 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 35.050,30 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 110,830.000.00 Collection 142.730.956,68 Ret and Returns 124.644,41 Net Collection 142.606.312.27 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.60) RECEP TERRORAL UNIVERSE B) Recep Tayyip Erdogan University Central Administration Final Account for 2016 Total allowance 194.058.312.06 Budget Expenses 159.394.320.70 Canceled Fund 34,663,991,36 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 143,702,000.00 Collection 166,099,047,23 Ret and returns 130.426.89 Net Collection 165,968,620,34 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.61) NAMI KEMAL UNIVERSE B) Namik Kemal University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 178,253,980,05 Budget Expenses 128,874,664,88 Canceled Fund 29.379.315.17 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 159,412,000,00 Collection 146,360,236,26 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.62) ERZINCAN UNIVERSITY B) Erzincan University Central Management Final Account for 2016 Total allowance 146,216,474,36 Budget Expenses 135,707,010,66 Canceled Fund 10.501.474.50 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 7,989,20 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 129,449.000,00 Collection 141,403,098,15 Ret and Returns 104,577,53 Net Collection 141,298,520,62 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.63) AKSARAY UNIVERSITY B) Aksaray University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 125,313,604,48 Budget Expenses 114.283.038.62 Canceled Fund 11.024.895.86 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 5.670.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 113,439.00 Collection 120.455.930.49 Ret and Returns 292.546.69 Net Collection 120.163.383.80 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.64) THE UNIVERSE OF ENTERMENT B) Giresun University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 146,274,321,47 Budget Expenses 116,491,906,57 Canceled Fund 29.782.414.90 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 132.779.000.00 Collection 108,347,067,39 Refuge and Returns 35.220,50 Net Collection 108,311,846,89 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.65) HETIT UNIVERSITY B) Hitit University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 132.318.025.50 Budget Expenses 117.098.651.53 Canceled Fund 15,219,373,97 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 117,661000,00 Collection 106,116,764,34 Rejections 4.031.00 Net Collection 106,112,733,34 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.66) BOZOK UNIVERSE B) Bozok University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 164,448,434,37 Budget Expenses 158,475,897,37 Canceled Fund 5,972.537.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 142,900,000.00 Collection 152.308.895.11 Ret and returns 62,470,12 Net Collection 152.246.424.99 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.67) THE UNIVERSE OF ADIYAMAN B) Adıyaman University Central Management Account for 2016 Total allowance 142.721.298.55 Budget Expenses 130.597.872.68 Canceled allowance 12.123,425,87 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 133,362,000.00 Collection 133,455,767,04 Ret and Returns 48.060,43 Net Collection 133,407,706,61 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.68) ORDU UNIVERSITY B) Army University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 137,256,057,62 Budget Expenses 120,003,963,96 Canceled Fund 17.252.093.66 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 110,804,000.00 Collection 110,687.143,74 Rejections and Returns 28.432.00 Net Collection 110,658,711,74 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.69) AMASIA UNIVERSITY B) Amasya University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 97,059,122.87 Budget Expenses 88,672.990.83 Canceled Fund 8.380.521.07 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 5.610.97 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 79.118,000.00 Collection 93.252.145. Denied and returned 57,626.35 Net Collection 93.194.519.10 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.70) CENTURY UNIVERSE B) Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey University 2016 Central Administration Terminator Account Total allowance 102,006,616,73 Budget Expenses 79,545,306,44 Canceled Fund 22.461.310.29 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 77.422,000.00 Collection 82.209.329.63 Ret and Returns 26.394.03 Net Collection 82,182.935,60 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.71) ALONG IBRAHAM UNIVERSE B) Ağrı İbrahim Çeçn University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total Payment 101,634,518,18 Budget Expenses 94,540.100,18 Canceled allowance 7,094.418.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 82,076,000.00 Collection 96,004.109,24 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.72) SINOP UNIVERSE B) Sinop University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance is 100,139,937,44 Budget Expenses 96.551.149.92 Canceled Fund 3.588.787.52 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 71,954,000.00 Collection 81,767,053,71 Rets and returns 7,598,91 Net Collection 81,759,454,80 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.73) CIRT UNIVERSE B) Siirt University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 97,159,650,12 Budget Expenses 90,717,965,33 Canceled Fund 6,441,684.79 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 80.052,000.00 Collection 95,228,504,50 Ret and returns 13.222.80 Net Collection 95.215.281.70 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.74) NUCHIHIHELVES VICTIM UNIVERSE B) Nevşehir Hacı Bektas Veli University 2016 Central Executive Term Total allowance 105,061,333,49 Budget Expenses 100,834,641,82 Canceled Fund 4.226.691.67 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 96,476,000.00 Collection 103,483,601,47 Ret and returns 69.576.80 Net Collection 103,414,024,67 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.75) CONTROL UNIVERSE B) Karabük University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total Payment 201.034.757.99 Budget Expenses 159.966.464.90 Canceled Fund 41.025.453.91 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 42,839,18 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 158.127,000.00 Collection 156,159,798,88 Ret and Returns 864.489.08 Net Collection 155.295.309.80 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.76) CHURCH UNIVERSITY OF DECEMBER 7 B) Kilis University of December 7th 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 73,424,868,04 Budget Expenses 62.404.196.86 Canceled allowance 11.020.671.18 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 67,676,000.00 Collection 59,736,444,58 Refuge and Restitution 19,506.95 Net Collection 59,716,937,63 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.77) THE UNIVERSE OF CHUNKIRI KATEKIN B) Çanırı Karateken University 2016 Central Management Terms Total Payment 114,442.472.95 Budget Expenses 92,684.082.75 Canceled Fund 21,758,390,20 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 98.361.00 Collection 94.896.524.85 Ret and Returns 10.490.86 Net Collection 94.886.033.99 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.78) ARVIN UNIVERSITY OF CORUH B) Artvin Çoruh University 2016 Central Management Terms Total allowance 87,379,865,24 Budget Expenses 74,443,942,71 Canceled allowance 12.935.922.53 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 80,488,000.00 Collection 71.830.779,41 Ret and Returns 72,665,74 Net Collection 71,758,113,67 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.79) THE UNIVERSE OF BILECTIC HEITH B) Bilecik Sheikh Edebali University 2016 Central Management Terms Total allowance 92,766,378,33 Budget Expenses 84,748,782,63 Canceled Fund 8.017.595.70 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 88,656,000,00 Collection 83.833.029.00 Refusal 99,848,85 Net Collection 83.733.180,15 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.80) BITIS EREN UNIVERSE B) Bitlis Eren University 2016 Central Management Terms Total allowance 96,748,073,63 Budget Expenses 91,173,776.00 Canceled Fund 5.574.297.63 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 86,450,000.00 Collection 98.410.947.73 Ret and Returns 3.021,56 Net Collection 98.407.926.17 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.81) THE UNIVERSE OF RIVERSALS B) Kırklareli University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total Payment 104,616,192.25 Budget Expenses 83.087.519.71 Canceled Fund 21.528.672.54 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 99,689.000.00 Collection 89,356,182,65 Refuge and Returns 22.499,43 Net Collection 89.33.683.22 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.82) OSMANIA SCARED ATA UNIVERSITY B) Osmaniye Korkuş Ata University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 85,434,140,17 Budget Expenses 82,651,319,71 Canceled Fund 2.782.820,46 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 78,575,000.00 Collection 83.062.552.23 Ret and Returns 21.293,41 Net Collection 83.041.258,82 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.83) BINGO UNIVERSITY B) Bingöl University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total Payment 111,345,124.85 Budget Expenses 87.945.172.72 Canceled Fund 23.399.952,13 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 99.33,000.00 Collection 88,335,372,73 Ret and Returns 40.767.47 Net Collection 88,294,605,26 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.84) MUDI ALPARSLAN UNIVERSITY B) Mus Alparslan University Central Management Terminate in 2016 Total allowance 91,288,507,52 Budget Expenses 73,714,167,44 Canceled Fund 17.574.340.08 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 82,699,000.00 Collection 76,724,573,01 Refuge and Restitution 9.355,14 Net Collection 76,715,217,87 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.85) MARDIN UNIVERSE UNIVERSE B) Mardin Artuklu University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 110.940.070.00 Budget Expenses 102,636,376,46 Canceled Fund 8.303.693.54 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 90,591.00 Collection 102,565,214,37 Refuge and Returns 15.331.68 Net Collection 102,549,882,69 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.86) BATMAN UNIVERSITY B) Batman University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 112,555,514,54 Budget Expenses 78,926,606,32 Cancelled Fund 33.628.908.22 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 84,009.00. Collection 87,024.609,19 Ret and returns 130.644.92 Net Collection 86,893,964,27 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.87) ARDAHAN UNIVERSE B) Ardahan University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 73.838.106.98 Budget Expenses 68,673,746,92 Canceled Fund 5,164.360.06 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 67,187,000.00 Collection 73,093,783,45 Rejections 27,543,89 Net Collection 73.066.239.56 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.88) THE UNIVERSE OF BARTIN B) Bartın University 2016 Central Management Terms Total allowance 103,804,659,25 Budget Expenses 97,661,105,31 Canceled Fund 6,143,553,94 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 84,658,000,00 Collection 88.310.103,91 Refusal 19,522,63 Net Collection 88,290,581,28 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.89) MRBURT UNIVERSITY B) Bayburt University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 124.940.167.29 Budget Expenses 111,832.851,88 Canceled Fund 13.107.315.41 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 75.114,000.00 Collection 111.903.547.47 Rejections and Returns 11:045,13 Net Collection 111,892.502,34 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.90) STRIKE UNIVERSITY B) Silverhane University 2016 Central Management Terms Total Payment 122.834.261,46 Budget Expenses 112.190.818.18 Canceled Fund 10,643,443,28 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 102,020,000.00 Collection 111,459,620,91 Refuge and Returns 3.544,45 Net Collection 111,456,076,46 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.91) THE RIGHTS UNIVERSE B) Hakkari University Central Administration Terminate Account for 2016 Total allowance 54,997,278,87 Budget Expenses 37,481,679,81 Canceled Fund 17.515.599.06 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 51,606,000.00 Collection 45,750,317,10 Rejections and Returns 190.00 Net Collection 45,750.127,10 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.92) STRIKE UNIVERSE B) Iğdır University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 77,758,746,74 Budget Expenses 68.452.599.88 Canceled Fund 9.306.146.86 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimated 61,417,000.00 Collection 75,340,745,47 Refuge and Returns 18.561.43 Net Collection 75,322,184,04 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.93) SIRNAK UNIVERSE B) Şırnak University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 70.614.897.29 Budget Expenses 64.229.109.85 Cancelled Fund 6,385,787,44 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 64,553,000,00 Collection 61,095,323,19 Ret and Returns 4.69,61 Net Collection 61.090.626.58 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.94) MUNZUR UNIVERSE B) Munzur University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 87,271,034,98 Budget Expenses 57,603,649,18 Canceled Fund 29.667.385.80 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 77,411.000,00 Collection 53,676,082,89 Ret and returns 14.178,72 Net Collection 53,661,904,17 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit09spe0397par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission and the government are in place. We continue with the Yalova University vote on certain college accounts. 38.95) YALOVA UNIVERSE B) Yalova University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total Payment 101,481,934,69 Budget Expenses 89,224,049,38 Canceled Fund 12.242.293,97 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 15.591.34 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 81,220,000.00 Collection 83,008,369,21 Refuge and Returns 115,380,54 Net Collection 82,892.988,67 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.96) Turkish German University B) Turkey's German University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 66,752.422.87 Budget Expenses 64.691.076.19 Compensation Expenses 3.591,827,04 Canceled Fund 5,653,173,72 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 42,672,000.00 Collection 35,814,872,70 Rejections 250.494.02 Net Collection 35.564.378,68 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.97) ANKARA STAR BEYAZIT UNIVERSITY B) Ankara Yıldırım Çakıt University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 182.095.995,31 Budget Expenses 176,922,398,95 Canceled Fund 5.173.596.36 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 131,104,000.00 Collection 170.220.623.98 Rejections 423.917.85 Net Collection 169,796,706,13 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.98) BURSA TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) Bursa Technical University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 54,625,964,87 Budget Expenses 35.507.672,71 Canceled Fund 19,118,292,16 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 44,981.00 Collection 31,348,053,33 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.99) ISTANBUL UNIVERSE B) İstanbul Civiliyet University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 116,578,968,72 Budget Expenses 80.467.488.05 Canceled Grant 36,111,480,67 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimated 71.662,000.00 Collection 82.134.301.52 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.01) UNIVERSITY OF EMPLOYMENT B) İzmir Kıtip Çelebi University 2016 Central Management Terms Total allowance 137.393.530.92 Budget Expenses 110,288,640,19 Canceled Fund 27.104.890.73 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 113,835,000.00 Collection 122.798.635.28 Ret and returns 39,137,77 Net Collection 122.759.497.51 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.02) THE UNIVERSE OF NECMETIN B) Necmettin Erbakan University Central Management Termination Account for 2016 Total grant 311,790,908,05 Budget Expenses 296,291,778,61 Canceled allowance 15.499.129.44 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 271,294,000.00 Collection 314,427,508,40 Ret and Returns 268.086.99 Net Collection 314,159,421,41 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.03) U.S.A. GÜL UNIVERSITY B) Abdullah Gül University 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 108,162,618,94 Budget Expenses 98,523,495,97 Canceled Fund 9.639.122.97 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 75,250,000.00 Collection 97,461,174,81 Ret and Returns 666.67 Net Collection 97.460.508,14 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.04) ERZURUUM TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) Erzurum Technical University 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 82,377,773,60 Budget Expenses 61.306.954.81 Canceled Fund 21.070.818.79 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 58.344,000.00 Collection 64,907,455,63 Ret and Returns 22.478.86 Net Collection 64,884.976,77 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.05) THE UNIVERSE OF ADANA AND TEKNOLOJI B) Adana University of Science and Technology 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 89,960,909,71 Budget Expenses 74,740,573,07 Canceled allowance 15.220.336.64 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimated 64,490.000.00 Collection 75.838.670.30 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.06) ANKARA SOCIAL UNIVERSE B) Ankara University of Social Sciences 2016 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 83,813,364,87 Budget Expenses 53.359.762.17 Cancelled Fund 30,453,602,70 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 46.381.000.00 Collection 48,328,762,19 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.07) THE UNIVERSITY OF INTERVIEWS B) Health Sciences University Central Management Account for 2016 Total Payment 208,499,949,05 Budget Expenses 50.128.695.91 Cancelled Fund 158,371,253,14 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimated at 80.799,000.00 Collection 77,678,064,19 Rejections 4.476.04 Net Collection 77,673,588,15 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.08) BANDIRM ON SEPTEMBER UNIVERSITY B) Bandirma Seventeen Eylül University Central Management Terms Total allowance 53,951,551,23 Budget Expenses 26.253.057.22 Cancelled Grant 27,698,494,01 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 47,603,000,00 Collection 28.903.542.30 Ret and returns 13.052,57 Net Collection 28.890.489,73 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.09) THE UNIVERSE OF SOLDIER B) İskenderun Technical University Central Management Account for 2016 Total allowance 79,093,561,37 Budget Expenses 40.553.530.49 Canceled Grant 38,540.030,88 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 73,229000.00 Collection 43,067,162,01 Ret and Returns 135,071,34 Net Collection 42,932,090,67 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.10) ALANYA ALAADDIN KEYKUBAT UNIVERSITY B) Alanya Aladdin Keykubat University 2016 Central Management Terms Total allowance 47.831.110.19 Budget Expenses 36,172.205,55 Emancipation Expenses 79,146,82 Canceled Fund 11.738.051,46 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 137.263,000.00 Collection 35.725.433.92 Denied and Returned 55.109.04 Net Collection 35.670.324.88 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] Members of parliament, the budgets and precise accounts of the companies involved in the seventh round have been approved. I wish them well. Mr. Ministers, do you have a thank-you speech?
tbmm-2017-12-18sit09spe0399par0198	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit09spe0400par0199	Thank you very much. If you'll excuse us, we'd like to thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit09spe0401par0201	You're welcome where you are.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit09spe0400par0202	Mr. President, at first we thank you very much, that you have managed the House so strongly by this hour. We thank all of our MPs, all the members of the House who have served us this late. We pay our respects, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit09spe0402par0205	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit09spe0403par0207	I couldn't agree more.
tbmm-2017-12-18sit09spe0402par0208	Congressmans, the seventh round of talks is complete. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. Tuesday (December 19th 2017) to discuss the budget and precise accounts of the organisations in order. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
