tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0001par0001	I'm opening the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a promise to three congressmen. The first non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0002par0010	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We've really wanted to take a pretty low-profile statement about the problems of Chile, but I thank Mr. President, who's been fair to the Speaker of Parliament, for giving this word and this opportunity. Dear friends, it's not enough to count the problems of our Shile County. He doesn't have enough doctors for access to the hospital, he doesn't have specialists, all of the patients who come in are transferred from Chile to Istanbul, he doesn't have a parking lot; his teacher is incompetent, his teachers are incompetent, his students are outnumbered. In this regard, our Chilean is a victim. Basically, what we're talking about today is the planned dam in Chile County. Since 1960, our Chilean people have been victims of agriculture and livestock in the Agva and surrounding neighborhoods of Chile County. Why is he a victim? We have 13 villages in Chile, which have been part of the dam project since 1960, with established and orderly lives. This is the Osmangazi Dam. As for Osmangazi Dam, no progress has been made, even though it has been part of the project, and as of 1987, there has been no sale done on the estates of our citizens in the province of Chile, in those villages under the Osmangazi Dam. In this sense, the population has continued to migrate from villages because our citizen has no condition to build an eye house because of its proliferation. In this sense, in 2016, by the State Waterworks Department of the 14th District, an additional budget in the region was planned to build this dam, with its project being built, but with this dam, the village of Çatakaklı, Gökmaslı, Göksu and Coollu villages are underwater, the graveyards, mosques are underwater, and in this sense, our citizens in Chile are actually being victimised by this dam. So, these existing dams... do they need to be built, is there any public interest, or is there any chance that this project will be revised again? When we look at it, in a legal sense, really, this project is bringing debates about whether or not it is of public interest, and the administration can't fully explain its public interest. The main goal is to ensure that this dam provides Istanbul's water supply. In an alternate sense, we can offer projects that are quite comfortable. This project was built in 1960 as part of the dam. Although this project hasn't been carried out in fifty-seven years, we haven't been able to make sense of it moving in the last few days. If there really is a public interest in this, why has this project been suspended for fifty-seven years? 1) There is no public interest. 2) It is not proportional. 3) The principle of modesty has been violated. Can similar projects be done here? It can be done. It's like this abroad... with small dams, low beds. At the same time, floods can also be met, and Istanbul can also be met with water supplies. However, when a large dam is built as a whole, our villages here will be victimised. It is said that this project has a cost. Who are we going to take it out on? Since this project is being done, we have to continue the project because of the cost. The main human element here is that, according to the Fifth Amendment of our Constitution, the state must provide peace and happiness for our citizen. The freighter will be corrupted by this project, which has the presence of peace and happiness of our people in this sense. This project violates the rights of property of our Constitution on Article 35 of Article 45 of the Constitution on the protection of agriculture and livestock in Article 45. The CED report has not been updated. Regarding the current project, our citizen has not been informed, which is insufficient. Under the circumstances, the fact that this dam was built...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0003par0025	Mr. Tanal, you have brought up an important matter. You didn't have enough time. I'll give you an extra minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0004par0028	Thank you very much, my dear President. 1) When looking at this existing project, this report on the project is very old. 2) The CED report needs to be reviewed and updated. 3) Since this has not been updated, our relevant citizen has not been informed in that area. 4) The information there is incomplete and underprivileged by political pressures. Therefore, the implementation of the dam project is the greatest evil that can be done to the people and disaster, even though the physical and geographical conditions of the planned region are not fit for dams. Mr. President, thank you for your sensitivity. I salute our MPs, all our citizens who listen to us at the head of their television, with respect and respect. I hope and hope that political power will give up this project. The real element is the human element. The cost of human beings should not be compared to the cost of economics. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0005par0039	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0006par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important problems in our country today is the issue of sick prisoners in prisons. As a bleeding wound to the country, the sick prisoners are unfortunately keeping their place on the agenda, yet no solution has been developed. The European Prison Rules shall be treated according to human rights for every individual who is deprived of freedom during the first time. Incarceration is also considered a human rights issue. However, it has been made clear that there will be no additional punishment for those deprived of freedom. Turkey's prisons have a situation that is hosting every day, which has no legal basis, which destroys the principles of conscience. Prisoners and prisoners with severe illness are left to death and psychological torture by taking a political stance, even though they have no probable cause. With the State of Emergency, the number of patients in Turkey has exceeded thousands. The increasing mass arrests following the State of Emergency have increased the number of patients. I'm afraid that today sick prisoners lack sufficient access to health care. It is often found that no windows, no air, no boxes, are forced to be taken to hospitals, even held in that ring vehicle for hours, and brought back to prison without treatment. Dear friends, on the other hand, the fact that during that treatment, his hands were not removed or his hands were forced into treatment in hospital basements, and that the soldiers wanted to be present in that environment prevents a healthy treatment service from being received. In prisons, the position of the staff in particular has changed and enjoyed with the State of Emergency. The opportunity is my government, especially now I'm troubled, so I do what I want, and I'm very sensitive right now. Unfortunately, he's trying to take it out on the sick prisoners. Patient prisoners are forced to live in cold, damp weather, and especially with the OHAL, in wards that have doubled and tripled their capacity. Even patient prisoners who have been identified with ATK reports at various times when it is impossible for them to live on their own are unfortunately not released, but left to die. Look, one of them is Ergin Aktaş. The court dismissed this report and continued its arrest, even though three times it was stated by the ATK that the treatment for Ergin Aktaş was not possible and needed to be released. In 2016, 47 patients were killed. Dear friends, look, when that happens, we also have some special circumstances. In the AKP's ruling period, some jihadist gangs, reactionary prisoners, thieves, those imprisoned for harassment and rape are also released on the grounds of disease. For example, one of them is being released because of Metin Kaplan's disease, a member of the Anatolian Federation Islamic State. Another example: Erkan Çapçın, who was the perpetrator of the incident that killed four people last year on Istiklal Street, is being released on grounds of his health. Dear friends, while these are being released, our group deputy, Idris Bauken, who suffered partial paralysis from his right foot due to the conditions of the prison, has been taken from the hospital to prison before the recovery period has been completed. What kind of remorse is that? He's a colleague of yours here, the person we're talking about. How can you afford it? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0007par0054	Mr. Toğrul, I'll give you an extra minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0006par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. Idris Baluken is a friend of ours you all know here. If the AKP is taking power into custody today, it seems that it has lost its conscience completely. Dear friends, are these the only ones for jihadists? For example, you've read from the press that while jihadist gangs were being released for a fixed address, HDP MPs, group MPs, especially our co-chairs, were taken to prison as if their addresses weren't fixed. What kind of understanding is that? Your hostility to HDP will never, ever give you anything, and on April 16th, it will make you lose your dictatorship. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0008par0062	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Erzurum MP İbrahim Aydemir (Abraham Aydemir) who wanted to speak about the 99th anniversary of Erzurum's deliverance from enemy occupation and the acceptance of our Istrillal anthem. Here you go, Mr. Aydemir.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0009par0067	Mr. President, thank you very much. Even though it's been four days, I'd like to write a few notes on March 12th, for which it is of great importance to both our country and Erzurum's privacy. Dear President, honorable lawmakers, let the snow not rise from this land for five or six months; this land is warm, blessed. I salute you all on behalf of Erzurum, the city of the martyrs' home, the city of the holy spirit. March 12th is a special date, a special moment. For it is the anniversary of the year when the anthem, which represents the sovereignty of this nation, was accepted at this high nation temple. This date is specific because on March 12, 1918, the blood on which the deceased Kuntay recorded the flag of the flag is the land. If anyone dies in its cause, it is the same date as the land. And March 12th is a blessed timeline, a time period when His Majesty's Alvarite Muhammad Lütfi Efe, a figure of character, whose identity was expressed by the great Islamic scholar and thought man, who spent his life on sacred values. In a nutshell, March 12th is a blessed time for the state of Asia Minor, as well as for Erzurum, as well as for the Memorial Day of the March 18th Canakkale Martyrs, which we will celebrate tomorrow. We have made a heartfelt description for Erzurum, which is the 99th anniversary of Erzurum. Although the recipe is intended for Erzurum's privacy, it represents a whole nation's geography in the truth. We call it the Havi, Erzurum, where the pulse of history beats. It's not a city of history, it's a city of history. (AK PARTY) For Ezan, it is the tent of those who have reached the secret of passing over for the flag, for the country. It is the city of those who have sacrificed their souls for the sake of justice, and who have dedicated their existence to Ilaakimollah. It is the furnace of a fellow man who describes all human beings and nobility, which is the lap of those who lie without shrouds. Erzurum is not a three-syllable name. Erzurum, the source of the national spirit, the spring of conscience and social consciousness, is a place where the armies of the faith keep it pure. And Erzurum is the name of a blessed land, in which history stands, standing before it; and the city is blessed, and the city is blessed. Erzurum is a harmony that brings special meaning to the Istiklal March. All praise is lacking in the name of Erzurum, for Erzurum is a city where the suns are set for a crescent. So March 12th is no ordinary date. Because of March 12th, once again Mehmet Akif Ersoy, the ruler of our national thinking, remembers before you with respect, gratitude and gratitude that we pledge never to abandon the values he emphasizes. In this chapter, we congratulate our 18th March Martyr's Day, with grace and gratitude. I'd like to record a wish and a goal on this occasion. Erzurum successfully completed the Inter-United Winter Games in 2011, and this year we had a successful process at the European Youth Olympic Winter Games. So, the new merchale, the new target should be the 2026 World Winter Games Olympics. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) We can successfully perform these games in an Indian game that includes Erzincan, Bayburt, and the Silver House, as we are now partners in the context of attraction centers. At this point, we expect our great House to support this goal.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0010par0075	We give, we give.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0009par0076	Thank you very much. In a very poor expression of our Prime Minister, we have brought to the nation's presence for every born, to take our country across the ages and bring it to the level of murky civilizations.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0011par0079	Mr. Aydemir, I'll give you one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0009par0081	Mr. President, thank you very much. ...to the new Constitutional process, to Erzurum, to the referendum process, and to all of you, to all of you, according to the fact that Erzurum is committed by a heart, to Hınis, to Ashkale, to Ispir, to Tortum, to Shenkaya, to all of their cities, almost to an alliance. Mr. President, for your kindness, for your magnificence, I also express my respect, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0012par0085	Thank you very much. And we thank you for this lovely speech, Mr. Aydemir. Members of parliament, the non-responsive talks carried out under Article 59 of the Interior Charter have been terminated. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who are entering the electronic system demanding word. I'm starting the promise process. Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0013par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the president of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: The proposed system is always from the President's ruling party, which has a majority in parliament. The president elects MPs in the general elections as the ruling party's leader, making them choose what he wants. Such a parliament does not bring a law before the President that he does not want. If the President vetos and renegotiates a law adopted by the Assembly and returns it, the Parliament must accept this law with the full majority of members, which makes it impossible for the Parliament to adopt a law that the President does not want. The president is granted the authority to disband the House whenever he wishes. In this case, his choice is being renewed, but since he also has the position of party leader, he decides again who will run from his party in the general election. Even if the President has the authority to disband the House, the lawmakers have no objection to the President's wishes...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0012par0095	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0014par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the president of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: The proposed constitutional amendment proposes to raise the number of MPs in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to 600, offering 50 new MPs. This number can also be found by ministers and undetermined vice presidents. This costs a citizen $400 million. With this money, the needs of a citizen can be met. With this money, subcontractors can be cast in public. With this money, 2,000 job inspectors could be employed to supervise business killings to prevent them. This could give pensioners a raise. With this money, 400 thousand people can retire who have paid their premiums, but who are old enough to find a job. With this money, the examination paid by our citizens can be paid for their participation, their drug turnouts can be paid. With this money, 15,000 new employees can be available to the public to reduce unemployment, 15,000 jobs can be created in the state. 40 hospitals can be built with this money. Would it not be more appropriate for this nation to use its taxes to serve the nation in better areas? It is for the good of our country at the referendum.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0015par0100	Mr. Benli...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0016par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the anniversary of the Aleppoca massacre, a black mark on human history. March 16, 1988 is the date of shame. It's been twenty-nine years, but the pain in her conscience is still fresh. That day, when Iraqi fighters were bombing Aleppoce, the children ran away to never return to the scent of a sharp apple spreading around. Civilians were killed that day with chemical weapons, thousands injured. Turkey, who has always been with the oppressed throughout history, has welcomed and mobilized all its resources for our Iraqi Kurdish brothers who fled the Aleppoce massacre. I no doubt consider this violence a crime against humanity, and especially to fight with chemical weapons, I call on all of us to fight together. I curse this savagery with the hope that it will never happen again in geography.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0017par0104	Let's assume it's genocide, Congressman.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0018par0105	Mr. Kavakcı...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0019par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to present information to the Veterans Assembly regarding the Parliamentary Forum for the UN Convention on Desertization. The United Nations Convention on Fighting Desertization (COP 12) was held in Ankara, hosted by Turkey from 12 October to 23 October. The Parliamentary Forum is run by Parliamentary Presidency until the end of the year 2017. Our Parliament Speaker is the president of this forum, but we have been given the mandate to conduct these presidential and working group meetings. The aim of the Parliamentary Forum is to increase the awareness of the Assembly and the effectiveness of land policies in terms of land destruction, desertification.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0020par0111	Mr. Akkaya...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0021par0113	Mr. President, I'd like to ask the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey this question: According to our current Constitution, the authority to declare a state of emergency belongs to the Council of Ministers in the presidency. In this case, our constitution stipulates that when the country faces great risks and problems, it should be consulted by the Council of Ministers, or the common mind of a council. With the proposed constitution, the President will declare the State of Emergency on his own. One man, under the decision of the Parliament, will extend the time as long as he wants, and will rule the country as he wishes with the State of Emergency decrees. There will be an end to consultation with the government. In the State of Emergency decrees, he will be able to make any decision without any boundaries. It will include the arrangements to remove the freedom of life and property of a citizen. They can be held indefinitely, and they can't even be taken to the Constitutional Court. That kind of authority is given to a man who is also the party's president.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0020par0115	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0022par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. From here, I would like to ask the Speaker of Parliament: The proposed constitutional amendment proposes that the number of MPs in parliament be raised to 600, offering 50 new MPs. Those who advocate this change state that the representation of the will of citizens will become more powerful, that the least MPs in Western democracies are in Turkey, compared to the population. However, one of the most important ways to ensure the democratic representation of our citizens in politics is by local government. Political power closed city municipalities with a law issued in 2012, providing cost and waste as a justification. Minister of Industry and Trade Fikri Ik has made this statement for the benefit of Turkey. The public source is the source of the nation; it is a decision not to be squandered, to be used correctly, and at this point it is made for the efficient and effective work of the public in every way. The mayor's salary, chief of staff, and the fuel of his car are no longer available for all municipalities. As it turns out, when the municipalities run directly by democracy are being shut down...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0020par0120	Mr. Ercoshkun...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0023par0122	Mr. President, thank you. Last Friday, we organized a great rally with our Prime Minister from every corner of Bolu, from Mudurnu to Taşkesti, from Göynuk to Seben, Cyprus to Yeniça, Gerede to Mengen, Gökçesu to Karaköy, from Karacasu to Tekdurt, from all sides of Bolu, and the reflections of this rally were both positive and positive for both Bolu and its environment. Of course, perhaps with the surprise of this rally, there is another provocation of CHP MP Baris Yfriend. There are allegations from posters hanging in the square to vehicles being used -- unsubstantiated, non-employable -- that the official vehicles are being used, and the posters are being used in official apartments. In the square of national will, in the square of democracy...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0020par0125	Mr. Hosnuye Erdogan...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0024par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. In Pakistan, we attended a conference on the Role of Women Parliamentaries in the strengthening of democracy and Social Justice, which was held by 13 countries, and brought you the greetings of our sisters in Pakistan. We had our first talk at the opening session of the Women's Parliamentary Role of Terrorism for a Peaceful, Democratic World. In addition, during the session of Violence on Women, we strongly, strongly condemned the brutal attack on our Minister Fatma Betül Sayan Kaya, and received their support. I salute the Veterans' Assembly, sir, with the hope of continuing to fight together to keep people, especially women and children alive.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0020par0129	Mr. Ilican...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0025par0131	Thank you, my dear President. I have some thanks, and I'd like to present him from here. My first thanks to our Minister of Culture and Tourism, Mr. Nabi Avcı. For the development of tourism, some airports -- which were 10 airports -- were added to the $6000 per plane, as well as Erzurum Airport, with the latest decision of the Council of Ministers. It is crucial for the development of tourism in Erzurum. The second important issue is: We have to deliver the letter of intent for the 2026 Winter Olympics in September of this year. We thank the main opposition, opposition, the entire Turkish National Assembly, who previously supported it. We would like to thank Deputy Prime Minister Numan Survivmiş Bey, who visited our city last Friday. From now on, the elders of our state, our Olympic Committee President, will, hopefully, receive Erzurum, Erzincan, Kars, Sarıkamis Olympics, as Mr. Ibrahim Bey has just stated.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0026par0135	Dear Maker...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0027par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. Under Article 10 of the Constitutional Amendment, all the rights and unlimited powers granted to the President can be used in exactly the same way by his deputy, which means that the authority taken from the public can be transferred to an appointed one who has not been elected. Given the arrest of the vice president in the Å investigation, the danger is obvious. After being elected, the president can appoint an unlimited number of vice presidents among those qualified to be elected MPs. While we lawmakers can't employ any of our relatives, including our third-degree blood relatives, so as not to be favourable, there is no obstacle to the appointment of first-degree associates to the President. Just as in Azerbaijan, he will be able to appoint his wife and children to assist him, so that he will have an actual opening for the dynasty. If it's allegedly not going to happen, then the President is already not going to be able to assist any of his relatives...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0026par0140	Dear Müslüm Doğan...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0028par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. 55 people were taken into custody today, including our party's Izmir County Co-Chair, who had been taken from their homes. No legal reason has been given for those detained during the week of the festival of Nevroz. An indictment has not yet been filed regarding our party friends who have been under arrest for 14 months. I'd like to submit to the Justice Minister's attention that the prosecutor who looks at the case has a biased and illegal view of the case and that the necessary investigation into this prosecutor will be done and the removal of the victims.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0026par0144	Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0029par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the AKP government has transformed the arrest fair against HDP (HDP) into a torture, a psychological war device. Look, I'll give you two concrete examples, Mr. President. Kahramanmarash was arrested on June 7, following the election. He was arrested on the second day of the Metin Heartful Congress, which later took place in our congress. Mehmet Eren, who was appointed last week, was taken into custody. Mr. President, the second example is Gaziantep. Earlier in Gaziantep, our wife-in-law Güler Erat was arrested and left behind for 48 days. This time our male co-Chair Erkan Şahin has been taken into custody. A week later today, Guler Erat was taken into custody again. I say that your persecution may increase so that your end may be near. No one has a crush on persecution, so let me rephrase that. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0030par0151	Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0031par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Speaker of the House: The age of parliamentary election is reduced to 18 ▪ with a proposal for a constitutional amendment. If an 18-year-old has the right to choose, he should also have the right to be elected, but it is impossible to understand the president's proposal to exempt young people from military service. In that case, the Aghas, gentlemen, will elect their children as MPs and allow them to be exempted from their homeland duties, but the poor child will serve. This solution, which has made parliament a way to avoid military service, is unacceptable. Apart from the issue of being exempted from the military, this arrangement is true, but it is a great injustice and dishonor for young people to be placed in this package, which brings only one man's regime. Strong Turkey as Parliamentary President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0030par0156	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0032par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. The Assembly General Assembly building, where we are now, consists of about 16 columns. If we bring down 16 columns in this building into one column, this Parliamentary General Assembly will collapse. Law, execution, judgment is what sustains the state, and these are the pillars of the state. If we put the government's columns in the hands of legislature, execution, and judgment as one column, the government will collapse. Let's not bring down our government. Come on, let's not let the government down to one column. Legislation, execution, judgment; let's preserve the separation of forces, protect democracy, say no to the future of our children. Thank you. My respects.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0033par0161	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0034par0163	Thank you. I'd like to ask the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: the Constitutional Proposal of the President single-handedly determines national security policies and takes the necessary measures. A mandate is being issued. This means that he can identify internal enemies and external enemies alone, that he can identify the political parties, unions, democratic mass organizations, associations as terrorist organizations; that he can declare the workers who strike, the citizens who act peacefully as enemies of the state, direct instructions to intervene in law enforcement. Is it not an authority to be removed from a National Security Council where such authority is represented by the most important institutions of the state and given to one person and the party's president that would undermine democracy? In the future, what will you do if this person, given the authority, declares all those who do not support his party a terrorist in the interest of his own party? He's asking as MPs from the CHP and...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0033par0166	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Now, Mr. Group, I'm going to make a promise to the vice presidents. Mr. Master...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0035par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. March 18, 1915, the 102nd anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale. I celebrate the 102nd year of the victory of Çanakkale, which has allowed us to live independently on the territory of Asia Minor. This holy victory is a clear example of how the Turkish nation will overcome obstacles when it comes to the integrity of the country and the independence of the nation. I'd like to call our people from here: Let's not have a day where we don't feel the Chanakkale spirit in our bones. With these consciousness, with these emotions, let's work together in unity, let's build, let's bring together the peace of our country. And first, of course, I wish you once again the mercy of Commander-in-Chief Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and of all our heroic army members, who have joined in this struggle, who have sacrificed their lives for their country, and all our martyrs who have sacrificed their lives for their country. Mr. President, on April 16th, you know, we're going to a referendum. Today is the last working day before the referendum of the House. So, in this sense, in fact, I think it would be appropriate for me to take some steps to ease some of the problems that are waiting in society. The fight against this Fetullahist terrorist organization must, of course, be continued without any interruptions, unflinched, but I'd like to rephrase the fact that we have to be a little more sensitive about victims. In particular, arrested soldiers, arrested military students, military students who have lost their rights need to be taken a step. If possible, I believe it would be a relief for the community to be tried without arrest. At the same time, we also need to be a little more careful with the people who are suspended or who are unemployed because of criteria like the bank, like the union or without a conscious account movement.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0036par0178	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0035par0179	Again, a decree on the immediate return of innocent public officials must be issued immediately. Let's not give these people a day of unnecessary sacrifice. Seriously, society's so stuck, it's so overwhelmed. We need to be aware of that. Every day there will be a KHK. It's been said that there hasn't been a proper KHK in months. Again, I think it would be very appropriate for the government to step up in some of the issues regarding the appointment of non-assigned teachers, non-assigned health staff, subcontractors, and to explain an action plan to the community in this process. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0037par0182	Thank you, Mr. Master. Mr. Timberson...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0038par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. It's March 16th, and unfortunately, we always remember the massacres, and we're tired of it. I hope one day we'll just have to remember what we've accomplished, what we've done, what we've done. On March 16, 1978, seven university students were killed and 41 students were injured as a result of a bombing and armed attack at Istanbul University, and the case of that attack is still in fact hidden deep within the tunnels. Sadly, today is the anniversary of the Aleppoce massacre, and the end of the six-year Enfal operation, which began with the Enfal operation, was the Aleppoce massacre and its effects for many years. The effects of that gas on gas poisoning continued for years later. In fact, the Hiroshima of the Middle East is known for the massacre of Aleppo. After the massacre, 53 countries of the Islamic Co-operation Agency gathered and they remained silent. Chemical gases were actually supplied from the West. Now, if the Justice and Development Party that raised the Kurdistan flag in Turkey today is genuinely sincere, it should recognise the genocide of Aleppoce like Norway, Sweden, England, and all parties should actually condemn this massacre and make a decision about it, as if it were Srebrenit, with the sensitivity of massacres, as a teacher.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0039par0191	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Kerestecioglu.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0038par0192	Thank you. Another important point is, yes, we want to celebrate Nevroz. It's a brotherhood holiday, and our member, who has reached dozens or even hundreds today, is actually only the chairman of the committee of the organization at the Nevroz (participation) celebrations, and they are being taken into custody because they are conducting studies. I think it's another opportunity for power, but at the same time, the fact that our friends who are going to run this campaign are in custody will prevent them from working. Now, if it's really going to be celebrated on March 21st and with enthusiasm, then March 21st should also be on vacation, and we have an offer on that. All these detentions, unjust practices, must be terminated immediately, because I'm surprised at which one I'm actually going to count, which means that more than 100 of our friends have been taken into custody today, and I'm just talking about today. So I'd also like to ask you. So, we would like you to give a voice against these detentions against people who should be a center of democracy, who are conducting the study or who want to celebrate for the sake of Neroz. I mean, there's got to be a noise coming out of here, otherwise it can't be fair work. If there are even obstacles brought to Nevroz, or if there are two options, yes, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0040par0196	Complete, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0038par0197	And we would like to ask you, as Speaker of the House, to give us a voice. And we don't understand how our party can be particularly quiet because, yes, we are a party in Turkey that has received a vote from millions of people; we've now left our arrested MPs aside, and we're looking at our other friends who have been taken into custody. I mean, if it's really called democracy, that would never be acceptable. So it's not democracy, let's change the name of this regime. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0040par0199	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0041par0202	Thank you, Mr. President. And I, on March 16th, wish God's mercy to those who lost their lives in the Aleppoce massacre. I want to confirm once again our desire and will that peace prevails in the world and in our region. Mr. President, however, next Saturday, we will perform the March 18th Memorial Day events, and we will perform our gratitude and gratitude to our martyrs with various activities. At the same time, we will celebrate the 102nd anniversary of our Çanakkale Sea Victory. Mr. President, from 1071 Malazzgirt, we remember our heroic martyrs and veterans, who have died from domestic and external threats to this day, who have shed blood, who have been brought to eternity, especially those who have died from the treacherous attacks of terrorist organizations in 1960, 1971, 1980, and, of course, on behalf of the People's Party of the Republic, the Great People Group of Turkey, who lost their lives on July 15, 2016, and of course Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0042par0206	Well, thank you very much. Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0043par0209	Mr. President, I have been promised our victory on March 18th. I salute you all. A hundred and two years ago, the land of Çanakkale witnessed a unique struggle. The enemy armies who wanted to wipe out our country, our nation, from the scene of history, came at us with all their might, using their cannons and rifles, trying to break our nation's resistance. In the face of these attacks, our nation led a heroic epic, with faith, with faith in cannons, with weapons, with faith, with supreme sacrifice, martyrs, veterans, but not the enemy. In the face of this faith and dedication, the enemy armies were helpless. The epic battle of Mustafa Kemal, of the Seyit Sergeants, took its place in the honorable pages of history, and became our pride. Our nation was the leader of a civilization's myth, the future and glory of the spirit he received from the victory of Çanakkale. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, and also, our Çanakkale is moving forward today with much more power and confidence. A hundred and two years ago, the land that was saved by drinking the sherbet of testimony began to become the rising power of Turkey today. On Saturday, March 18th, as well as celebrating the victory of Çanakkale, we will perform the groundbreaking ceremony of the 1915 bridge, which is nominated to be the symbol and pride of Turkey, not just of Çanakkale. The bridge, which was to be launched in 2023, will be the world's longest suspension bridge, with a distance of 2,023 metres and a total length of about 5 kilometers. The 1915 bridge, which will facilitate transportation between Thrace and the Aegean, will increase the commercial volume of the region. Our groundbreaking ceremony will be attended by our President, our Prime Minister.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0044par0213	Complete, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0043par0214	I invite all of our political leaders, all of our ministers, all of our representatives and all of our nation, as a representative of Çanakkale, this historic mother of Turkey's pride. Çanakkale is a common denominator that makes us a nation beyond all political ideology. Çanakkale is the first word of the Republic of Turkey. At such a time when Turkey faces global attacks, Çanakkale is a special value that connects us. Once again, I remember our martyrs who died in Çanakkale. I salute the entire House.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0044par0217	Thank you, Mr. Turan. Congressmans, today is March 16, 2017. March 16th is the anniversary of some painful events. One of them is an act of murder, a massacre, an anniversary of the massacre, which resulted in the end of the life of seven of our students in Istanbul on 16 March 1978. I cherish our people, our students, who have died in this massacre, and I offer patience and condolences on this occasion to their families. March 16th is also the anniversary of the Aleppo massacre. Twenty-nine years ago, during the Iran-Iraq War, the anniversary of one of the most brutal massacres in the history of mankind, which resulted in the death of thousands of Kurdish brothers by the administration of Saddam using chemical gas. On this anniversary, I wish God's mercy to the people who lost their lives in the Alepposic massacre, my condolences to their families. I wish that mankind's history, not in the Middle East, would never experience such a tragedy in any of the world's geography. There are many reasons to live in peace, to live in peace, to live in freedom. By recognizing these reasons, I sincerely hope that mankind will open the gates of a century in peace and peace. Congressmans, I have no way to participate in the debates in the General Assembly due to the restrictions imposed on the 94th and 64th Amendment of the Constitution, as acting Speaker of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I have no opportunity to make an assessment of these issues, not even on behalf of the party group I belong to in the ranks of the General Assembly. The rules of neutrality set by the Constitution and the Civil Law prevent this. However, my understanding is always a liberal democracy, always a part of it. All of my politics, my way of directing the General Assembly, are in this frame. Other than that, it is not possible for me to be in a position to confirm or express an opinion on the issues expressed by political party groups; I offer it to you, to your discretion, to evaluate them. Off-the-book talk is over.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0045par0225	Sir, just for the record. Not confirming us, just...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0044par0226	Let me turn on your microphone, Mr. Kerestecioglu.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0045par0227	Thank you. I certainly asked you to make a call not to confirm us, but to confirm freedoms. Because there's an important referendum on the fate of the country. We just wish that in this referendum process, all of our people, all of our parties, all of our politicians or non-politicians could be able to express their thoughts freely and not be prevented. That's all I'm asking you to do.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0044par0229	Thank you. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, as we have political parties who express opinions in favour of the general council as we go to the referendum, we also have political parties who express opinions in favour of the vote. Of course, you didn't say otherwise, but once again, I don't have a chance to express an opinion from anyone. However, my understanding of democracy, my understanding of freedom, our Constitution, all the universal laws of law, all the opinions, the views to be expressed in favour of the "yes" vote, or the ideas to be expressed in favour of the "no" vote, can be expressed freely by everyone in every environment. Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm having them read separately. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The loss of electricity costs reflected in electricity bills, and other costs, and the practice of electricity distribution companies that have victimised consumers, have been addressed for many years to public complaints, mainly by associations related to consumer rights, the Chamber of Electrical Engineers and the real people. Although it has been discussed on many grounds, including the TBMM, consumers' victimism has deepened. Distribution of distribution companies is not limited to the fact that lost illegal costs are being imposed on consumers. Extra pens, such as delivery costs, delivery costs, meter reading, retail sales costs, favoured distribution companies without legal basis, and victimized consumers. Companies have changed the ownership of consumer electricity counters automatically, by unfairly uploading the cost of dismantling them to consumers. The consumer's victimism was not limited to these. The total price on electricity bills has been raised exponentially, with the value added tax on funds and shares imposed on consumers. Although the EPDK, tasked with organizing and monitoring the electricity market, left the cost of distribution, service costs, and meter-reading costs in addition to the cost of illegal use in pencils, and had been tasked with resolving the losses of companies that cost consumers by changing the electricity counters by distribution companies without the knowledge of consumers, although it has been tasked with resolving them many years ago. Upon intense reactions, the EPDK also considered the missing price of illegal electricity use in the electricity market and the regulation of tariffs on the electricity market 4628 as an element of energy cost in pre-2003 regulation. As of 2011, cost pencils have been separated and cost-effective items previously included in retail sales have been shown in separate pencils in bills. However, a new indeterminate billing of the Energy Market Editing Board (EPDK) ruling, which has been valid since January 1, 2016, has been launched, which has been made unresolved by users to control the tariffs of the cost content, that violates the principle of transparency of the Power Market Act 6446. A new application has been launched under the name of energy and distribution costs, the cost of loss of 1 kilowatt-hour energy, the price of retail sales, the price of delivery and the price of one-time energy in retail; instead of bills defined as a cost of reading the meter, all of the tariff components have been stored under the name of energy price and distribution. The new application is not a demeaning factor in the missing fugitive ratio. This practice violates law and Electric Market Law's purpose by excluding companies in high-lost illegal areas from the quality of service, and has again developed intense reactions. It's about the judge. In such circumstances, it seems difficult to produce a healthy decision in such a short time. It is only the law enforcement's job to rule that the country cannot be checked for illegal measures, as it is suggested, without entry. It's against the law for distribution companies to decide that. There is no mention of the TBM's transfer of authority. The firms will be encouraged by the state to perpetuate practices against consumers in compensation for the damage caused by the priceless energy presentation and electricity shortages, when they receive exemptions with high-lost company status, showing their missing fugitive rates high on paper. In this regard, I would like to ask that Parliamental research be opened in accordance with Articles 104, 105, of the Constitutional Charter 98, 105, to determine the issues in the production and delivery of electricity to consumers, to identify the missing fugitive costs, which are illegally added to normal production costs and reflected to consumers, and unfair practices, such as payment markers hidden in the bill. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Although nearly 17 years have passed since the August 17th earthquake, when thousands of our citizens have lost their lives and thousands have been injured, it is still known that sufficient measures have not been taken. Experts state that 96 per cent of our country is involved in the active earthquake belt. As a matter of fact, in many parts of our country, there have been many large and small earthquakes. The earthquake, which was recorded as 7.4 on 17 August 1999 as the Lake earthquake, is the greatest disaster our country has experienced in the 20th century. According to official figures, 17733 of our citizens were killed, while 48,901 of our citizens were injured. According to some sources, 400,000 structures have been damaged, including the August 17, 1999 Lake earthquake and the 120,000 heavily damaged, 120,000 moderately damaged, 128 thousand lightly damaged and undetected, in the November 12, 1999 flat earthquakes. Although some 17 years have passed since the earthquake, our cities of earthquakes have not been fully resolved. The repair and strengthening of the earthquake's damaged structures is still inconclusive, but the area is also marked by official language. The following is that even though 617 buildings were determined to be destroyed in the wake of the earthquake, 3,756 buildings were found in 2012 by the governorate, 9,971 dwellings and businesses, 4,200 tenants were found in buildings that needed to be destroyed. These figures and contradictions show that although there have been many painful experiences with earthquakes, there are still no necessary measures and measures, many of our citizens are unaware of living in damaged buildings. The most effective and cheap method of preventing loss of goods and lives in the earthquake is to make buildings resistant to earthquakes based on the earthquake. For these reasons, the Lake earthquake on August 17, 1999 and the November 12, 1999 Düzce earthquake have affected the provinces of Kosheli, Sakarya, Bolu, Düzce and Yalova, and again affected by these earthquakes, and in Istanbul, where a possible earthquake is expected, we offer to investigate whether the medium damaged buildings are being repaired and strengthened in accordance with the nature and technique, and to determine the nature of the failures that have occurred so far, and to take the necessary measures quickly, we propose that the Constitution be investigated by Articles 98th and 104th and 105th Articles of TBMI, which are expected to be carried out in Istanbul. [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Scholarship]] [[Sinop]] 8) Oğuz Kaan Salcı [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Aydın]] [[Scholarship]] [[Kayseri]] [[Slap]] 14) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] 15) Bornt Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Amasya]] [[Janitor]] [[Denizli]] 20) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Denizli]] [[İzmir]] 24) Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt [[Inconceived]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 78th article of Highways 2918, which regulates the obligation of drivers and passengers to use protective gear, is required by designated drivers and passengers to use protective gear during the driving of vehicles, and is specified in what type of vehicles and roads to use in which conditions the drivers and their passengers will use in the city and in which conditions in which conditions they will use the protective gear and the quality of the guards and the quality of the safety belts will be used from which date." It is ruled by its form. According to the type of vehicles, the Roadways Traffic Rules, which include punishments for drivers who violate the rules, also contains information on which protective measures to be used. The subject of punishment is organised in Article 78/1-A of Highway 2918. According to this, no seatbelts or use of seatbelts in vehicles that are required to have a seatbelt were set at $69 in early payment, according to the 2016 Traffic Administration Criminal Guide. In our country, however, many drivers who go into traffic do not wear seat belts, although they are mandatory, endangering the safety of their own and other drivers in traffic. In our country where thousands of accidents happen every day, many people die because they don't use their seat belts. Although the applications to prevent these losses were passed in 2014, many drivers still insist on not wearing their seat belts. In contrast, studies indicate that 24.8% of those who use seat belts in fatal accidents survive the crash unharmed, while those who do not use seat belts are 6.3%. Seatbelt use has been determined to prevent 2/3 of the deaths and injuries in the backseat and 6% of the deaths in the front seat. In all severe injuries, the seat belts in the backseat reduce the impact of injury by 50 percent. According to the national study carried out by the Security General Directorate in September 2014, only 43.6% of the drivers in our country use seat belts, while 35.9% of the front seat passengers use seat belts. In 2013, 719,583 people were sentenced not to use seat belts, while 533,400 people were fined in 2014. Turkey is among the 10 countries responsible for nearly half the deaths of global traffic accidents. In terms of their frequency, health and economic consequences, traffic accidents should be a priority on the public health agenda. The five main factors that cause the World Health Organization's car accident are to be determined that it is not a choice, it is a necessity, not to use a helmet, not to wear a seatbelt, not to use a DUI, not to use a speeding seat, and not to capture even 50 percent of the safety belt rate in our country. In this direction, I respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to establish policies on raising social awareness on the use of seatbelts. 1) Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt [[Inconceived]] [[Scholarship]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Sinop]] 5) Oğuz Kaan Salcı [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Denizli]] [[Adana]] [[Scholarship]] 10) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[Kayseri]] 12) Brült Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] [[Janitor]] [[Slap]] 15) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] [[Denizli]] [[Amasya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Thursday 16/3/2017 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. On 16 March 2017, pressures, bans by administrative authorities, police interference and civil groups to determine the rights of citizens to make propaganda have been proposed to Turkey's Parliamentary Assembly, which has been issued to the Turkish National Assembly in order to determine solutions given by İstanbul MP Fliz Kerestecioğlu Demir in 468 rows, as well as other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly on Thursday (16/3/2017). In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Fiz Kerestecioğlu, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0046par0384	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs and empty parliamentary seats, our dear people, the fact that there is no democracy in a country, even though elections alone do not make a country democratic. Today, almost all parties call themselves the democrat, but unfortunately, that's not the truth. When dictatorial governments use the bat, the bat, the threat, people use propaganda rights in democracies; people convince each other not by stick, but by defending each other's opinions. But if you say no in Turkey today, propaganda is impossible. No, you can be attacked by law enforcement forces that should protect every citizen's rights without realizing whether he says yes or no, when he distributes the brochure or hangs a poster. The law enforcement forces no longer protect the interests of citizens, but only the President. If the President violates the Constitution, if he violates the principle of neutrality, there is no waiting for law enforcement to break the Constitution. The constitution has repeatedly stated the need for the state's representative to abide by the principle of neutrality. However, the President is actively campaigning with state opportunities, and he accuses those who run the campaign of no, that he is a supporter of coup and terror. On 13 February 2017, in his statement at Ataturk Airport before Bahrain's visit, the President declared that those who said no were near July 15th. In the same way, on March 13, 2017, he appeared on a special TV channel with the same side of the "no" and "terrorism." No, it's about supporting a separatist terrorist organization. Those who say no don't even have an obelisk in this country. The president is making his statements on this minor with all his programmes, and the prime minister and other government spokesman are going after him. Whereas we all have an obelisk in this country, my friends. We all have an obelisk, and democracy is to see and accept, not to discriminate. The State of Emergency and the KHK, which were supposedly opposed to the coup attempt, have been hurting hundreds of thousands of people, and now it's being used to hurt those who say, "No" as long as the vote goes up against the referendum that you've brought in until morning. After the constitutional amendment was adopted in parliament on January 21st, 70 people who ran the no-no campaign were taken into custody. Now, as an excuse for the celebrations, the State of Emergency is applied to those who wish to celebrate, in fact, by conducting detention practices so that they can't campaign in the referendum again. In many counties, including Adana, Van, Mersin, Gaziantep, all kinds of activities were banned for a month. This ban, however, is only intended for those who run the campaign. Now, let's look at the obstacles that have been brought against everyone who opposes this referendum. In 16 counties, in fact, the governor of 16 counties, General General General Yasar Güler and Interior Minister Süleyman Soylu, have been sent to the governor of the 16 provinces to prevent it, and they've ordered operations in 16 provinces. 13 MPs and thousands of party workers and managers were taken into custody and arrested, including co-Chairs, to prevent our party from conducting an effective election campaign. A major media censorship is being implemented against HDP. All activities and activities of our party are banned by the chiefs in a row. In almost all universities where no work was conducted, Antalya, Black Sea, İstanbul, Van, Ankara, Technical University, Ankara University, Ankara University, Karadeniz Technical University, all students who distribute or distribute documents were almost victimised or attacked. Ankara Governorate has banned election propaganda from campuses in an article sent to university presidents. A group of 25 men attacked the KAMU-SEN headquarters, which called, and the confederation building was raided. İstanbul Maltepe has been attacked by an unidentified person or persons with an armed attack on the referendum. DEV-LIS member four students who said no to the presidency from high school, no matter what you did on Ankara's Yüksel Street. The tradesman, who said he would vote no in the referendum, was complained by an informant citizen, and the tradesman was taken into custody. İmit Özdağ and Yusuf Halaçoğlu were attacked on March 8, 2017 by a group who chanted slogans from State Garden, leader of the movement in Mersin Silifke. Because of the anniversary of Özgecan Aslan's death in Mersin, five women have been taken into custody who have hung banners for equal living which legitimizes male violence. Police have seized the vehicle which stopped the announcement vehicle of HDP and DBP (HDP) who are conducting the referendum for Ercişte. And how many more we can't count here. Yes, Turkey is going to a referendum, and blessed be the ones who prevent it, the ones who create freedom of propaganda and an unequal way of working. Now, in Turkey, before AKP rulings, leaders and political representatives in Turkey, no matter how harsh the political climate, expressed and discussed their views publicly in television programmes such as open session. Today, this climate has been completely eliminated by power. I'd like to show you, for example, this picture of the late Orhan Doğan and Alparslan Turkesh, whose views were completely opposite, two politicians who could argue for hours on television. Yes, prior to the elections, the cartoons of political leaders were able to decorate the cover of magazines, and Jumble magazine, Leman magazine -- it was important in our history -- these magazines were filled with examples, and all political leaders looked at it with tolerance. We've come to a point where there's no news, no comics, and not even the long-wind magazine of the years is closed today. I'd like to show you another picture. And this photo is actually a historical photograph.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0047par0402	It's not so obvious, who's there?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0046par0403	Necmettin Erbakan, Mesut Yilmaz, Süleyman Demirel, Bkent Ecevit, Ismet Innu, East Perincek...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0048par0404	Erdal Innu.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0047par0405	There's Erdal Innu.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0046par0406	Erdal Innu, the deceased, all of them.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0047par0407	It's all there, isn't it?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0046par0408	They're all really important leaders in the history of this country, which is important for different parts of the world, and they can argue together, and I really, really think we all miss them, too. Although I may not have missed this painting of all male politicians, I would have preferred a different painting, but in the end, we missed the discussion of ideas, the ability to approach each other with tolerance; that's what this country has been through. And today, when we look at it, the leaders -- the ones in power, of course -- are trying to sue a cartoon, even a piece of writing. There is a famous saying: People should fear the people, not the governments, but the government is doing its best to frighten the people as the people in Turkey resists. We've lost our way, greed has poisoned some souls, our worlds are restricted by hate. Now, I want to say, I want to ask you: you've been in power for fifteen years, and let people express their opinions freely. Look, 13 parties have entered parliament in the Netherlands, where you have criticised so much, and you have not broken the dam in 15 years. You promised me that.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0049par0412	Economically, they're behind us, and even in democracy, they're behind us.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0050par0414	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0046par0415	For fifteen years, we will reduce the election dam. It has been said, and it has not been lowered. There is a 10 per cent election dam barrier in front of the public. All right, you've made it to the government, so be it, but that's enough now. So power poisons power, and with this poisoning, the country is unmanageable. It's time for a change. That's what democracy is all about, there's nothing to be afraid of. Change is what's important, democracy. I, on this last day before the coven's break, salute you all again with love and respect, with the belief that our people will be the cause of change and good fortune.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0051par0419	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Against the proposal...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0052par0421	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0051par0422	Mr. Incescuz...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0052par0423	We've just been told that our power, the government, and we've been pressured to do no, we've been informed...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0053par0424	That's a lie. There's no such thing!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0052par0425	...has made a criminal speech. The obligation was born to answer that, according to 69.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0054par0426	I mean, the Justice and Development Party...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0052par0427	That's right, that's right...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0054par0428	Right, not the government, the Justice and Development Party?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0052par0429	His government, the Justice and Development Party, has spoken incriminatingly to everyone.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0055par0430	They canceled three city halls in my town.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0054par0431	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0052par0435	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first and foremost, we haven't been here of our own free will for 14 years, we are the representatives of our beloved nation, our heroic nation, who brought us here. It's important to know that we're here because they gave this will in the 11 elections we've been in. There's no such thing as an appointment here. This needs to be fixed. Democracy... in 14 years, of course, we can't discuss our criteria at the point of democracy, rights, freedoms, the steps we've taken at the point of raising the bar. Here, in the framework of democracy, rights and freedoms, it's never and never within the scope of terrorism, to advocate terrorism, to come and speak on behalf of terrorist organizations in this parliament. Fighting is a struggle with terror and terrorist organizations. In the cities mentioned earlier, our citizens are under the threat of low, treacherous terrorist organizations such as the PKK. In order to free our citizens from their threat, to ensure that they can go to elections with their will, yes, especially recently, a decisive fight with terrorist organizations has begun, and this fight will continue in the form of an attack, until they are cleared, and will be able to reflect everyone's will freely into the chest. If we look at a campaign, the campaign for the campaign, if there's pressure, then the people who run the campaign. That's what I need to look at with the backstabbing of the PKK terror organization, whose soil hasn't dried yet, my brother, his brother, has just become a martyr. We have to provide all of this in order to be able to conduct comfortable elections in that area, to represent the will of the nation. We will never, ever accept those words on the floor. Yesterday, similar remarks were made here, and with them... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] When we see each other, we've all witnessed that they're false. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0056par0444	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0057par0445	Mr. President, since the speaker has taken the word of taunting me in response to my speech, and there are those who speak of terror organizations here, those who express themselves...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0056par0446	Yeah, a party didn't mention a name, but you're considering it was intended for you?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0057par0447	Yeah. So now we're used to being called terrorists.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0058par0449	Why are they taking over?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0057par0450	That's why we're taking it upon ourselves.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0059par0451	Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0060par0452	We talked about PKK.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0061par0453	After whose speech, Mr. President? Jesus Christ.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0060par0454	Why are you being offended? He said, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0062par0456	Now, there's something we've been through for a long time. We're giving a gene question here, for example, and we're saying that over the years, especially in the last two years, there have been so many explosions in this country, so many people have died. Who is in power now? It's not us, is it? Therefore, we are not the ones to answer for it. So power is, above all, a responsibility. What is the way that those who have undressed to take responsibility are inspected for this responsibility? At the same time, it is judgment, accountability, or listening to the word of the people, opening the way for the people. Now, whatever we say here, we're constantly dealing with terrorism, terrorism, terrorism...... and no one's telling you not to fight terrorism. Do what you're doing. You're the one who's in power, you're the one who's got all the power of the state. Do it. I'm talking to you about the interception of the announcement vehicle in İzmir. I'm talking about the detention of those who are going to celebrate in Maraş. I'm talking about the attacks on all parties that say no. You're going out, you're yourself, you're doing fine, look, you're delivering teas and pastas with packages. No, but what is this vehicle now? These photos were taken in Istanbul. So we think it's actually very inappropriate, and we think it's really inappropriate.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0063par0460	HDP has them, HDP has them.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0062par0461	So this is the HDP's?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0063par0462	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0062par0463	It says "yes." Is that right?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0063par0464	Maybe.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0064par0465	Don't interfere with rudeness!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0062par0466	Yes, tea and pasta are being delivered. We've never done anything like this in our lives. Even if you have to use the means of power to avoid them, or even if you do, answer this if you want to leave the front and the way of those who preach no.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0065par0468	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Against Mehmet Erdogan, Muğla MP will speak. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0066par0475	Mr. President, I have made a pledge today on behalf of the National Movement Party Group against the HDP group's proposal. I salute your high council. First of all, Turkey is going to a referendum on April 16th, where national will will be put on the line. We want the Turkish state to have a way out for the Turkish nation's back, as the National Movement Party, and as we have said from day one, the National Movement Party respects the will of every Turkish citizen who says yes, saying no, and he knows that the national will that will come out on April 16 will bind us and everyone. Therefore, because he said yes or no, we do not consider it the National Movement Party to be a challenge to anyone in this referendum campaign. In this referendum, to ensure that the national will is right, everyone must go to the chest of their own free will and put his hand on his conscience and use the game. However, there are obstacles to campaigners. Some things are tried to cover. We cannot accept that the judicial and administrative procedures of those who belong to a terrorist organization or to those who are connected to terrorist organizations should be shown as a block of the campaign. Those who are campaigning today are under pressure. We cannot accept that. Because the campaign began months before the campaign. The "No" campaign continues today from the day when our leader, State Bahçlı, leader of the National Movement Party, gave the first signs of this 18-point constitutional amendment proposal on October 11, 2016. On January 21st, however, this package was adopted at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey after the referendum was opened. Today, the real pressure is on those who say yes. So now, many of the spokesmen who have come out, the campaigners, especially the Nationalist Movement Party, have identified them as the target audience and have accused us of treason. Those who accuse us of treason at the National Movement Party need to take good care of the archives. The Constitutional Compromise Commission, established after the 2011 elections, contains what they say in the archives of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It's possible that anyone and all of our nations have access to these archives. Yesterday, those who brought up a number of changes that would threaten Turkey's unitary structure, who brought them up in many rallies and election studies again, today's talk of the National Movement Party in that sense is absolutely meaningless, it is not understood by us. To whom does it serve to declare a referendum, to be declared a second war of salvation, to reveal our nation's will? Those who have made these allegations have to be told here in a very good way. Since the 18-point constitutional amendment package arrived in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, some MPs who campaigned have tried to suppress our will by sharing the phones of all of our MPs in the National Movement Party Group through social media, trying to use a mobbing on us. This campaign is still under way. As for the European countries, the European countries have campaigned in the referendum on September 12, 2010, looking for ways to conduct this campaign, much less in the European countries, in our country, but the same EU countries are campaigning today in both the way they want political parties to do to Turkish citizens living in the EU. This is not just an obstacle to the ruling party. All meetings that the National Movement Party has either applied or planned to organise in the countries of the European Union have been blocked. In this regard, it is surprising that everyone who today has different attitudes about what happened yesterday is talking about the obstruction of the no-no campaign. Again, it has been said that the campaign of Yusuf Halaçoğlu and Umit Özdağ, and some of them, under the name of Mr. State Bahçlı, leader of the National Movement Party, was taken into action. The National Movement Party has nothing to do with and has nothing to do with these interventions. Today, in an interview with a newspaper by our Mr. President, this is clearly rewritten by our president's own statements. Again, in recent times, on the question of the press members, and at group meetings, Mr. President has underlined this issue. Some of them shouldn't try to use the National Movement Party to stay on the agenda. Let each man carry out his campaign in a manner that he wants to conduct, and let no one attempt to run his own campaign over the National Party of Action. The National Movement Party has never been involved in such a provocation, nor will it ever again. Again, of course, Turkey has been facing serious challenges over the years in the fight against terrorism. In Turkey, today, more than one terrorist organisation is under joint attack against the Turkish state's union. All terrorist organisations, such as the PKK, NYD, DHKP-C, DEAS, work in sync. In such an environment, the fight against terrorism must be coordinated very well by the government, especially in Turkey, which does not cause any provocation in this referendum process, because terrorist organisations will try to play their new game in Turkey by sabotaging the referendum campaign held in Turkey. This has been expressed and expressed in Turkey today, both from Kandil, Iraq, and elsewhere, by all terrorist organisations. In a period where Turkey is under this much threat of terrorism, no one must enter into any association that will prevent these operations against terrorist organisations and neutralize those operations. The National Movement Party has made it very clear its views on the referendum. I'd like to repeat some issues with the testimony of Mr. President. Mr. President Bahçeli, the 18-point constitutional amendment package of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, said backstage that it is not right to increase the tension of the press, so that after the 18-point constitutional vote passed Parliament, this could lead to increased tension in the field, so everyone should take the same step carefully. Gene, everyone needs to know, of course, that after the 18-point constitutional amendment referendum, those who say "no" in this country will not leave this country, and those who say "yes" will not leave this country. If there's a problem with style, there's only those who say yes here, and especially those who say no, by blaming the National Movement Party, no one can get anywhere, and those who say no need to take care of their own language. A decision from the referendum should be used by everyone who can't justify it. However, from the moment the constitutional amendment comes to the country's agenda, a certain group wants to shape voter behavior with threats. Recently, those who have criticised Mr. State Bahlı, the chairman of the National Movement Party, and Prime Minister Bululi Yıldırım, for their speech on the Constitutional Amendment should be very careful with their speech. Do the people not consider the unity and integrity of this country, whether it is for civil war or for peace? Those who make such statements, according to this point of view, those who say yes, are on the side of civil war, and if there is a civil war, there will be a civil war in our country. Those who try to spread their image need to pay close attention to their style. Again, if a government party is built in this country, the result will be chaos. Those who say that need to be careful where they go. It is almost the eve of a civil war. Those who often use statements, such as those who use them, need to consider the consequences. And he believes that it is not right for the unity of our country tomorrow to call some of the art masters who say yes, and I salute your great delegation, that this referendum should be a new way out for our nation.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0067par0487	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0068par0488	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0067par0489	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0068par0490	Thank you, Mr. President. In the final part of his speech, Mr. orator made a statement that it was understood that the words of those who wanted to vote no had expressed in the form of a civil war cry. For example, if you build a party state, there will be chaos in this country. That's what I said. To avoid any confusion, it's a taunt...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0067par0492	Here you are, Mr. Altay. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I promise you for two minutes.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0068par0497	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I agree with the minister's concerns. I agree with another window. We, of course, think that the person who votes yes and the person who votes no is equal to the citizens and politicians of this country who have equal rights. But politics, of course, is no doubt a matter of courtesy and conscience; it's a business of politics, of style. I told you yesterday, you don't do politics with neighborhood language, you don't do diplomacy; my word isn't on you, it's on top. But, now, it's also his duty to show some concern about the central event. Now, don't you agree that if a party state is built in a country, the party state...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0069par0500	But, he's for you.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0068par0501	...in that country...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0069par0502	It's for you, Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0068par0503	Wait, I'll come to you. ...can you say that there is no chaos in that country? Please respond, please. If the party state is built, I'm telling you - in a country...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0070par0505	It's an invalid assumption.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0068par0506	What do you mean, an invalid assumption?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0070par0507	It's an invalid assumption, of course.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0068par0508	Again, if you build a party state in a country, you create chaos in that country. And that's where it's gonna go... that could happen in any way. It's not just about the referendum. The government has norms to abide by. The government shouldn't be under the umbrella of the law. Everything the government does has to be in our international and national law norms. Now, if I may say so, that's what happens if I do so. It's called. Yeah, I'll treat anyone who votes no the way I treat a member of the PKK's terrorist organization in this country. He threatened the nation. Those of you who remain silent against this lewdness, you have no right to speak of it now. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0071par0512	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0072par0513	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0073par0514	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0071par0515	Mr. Master...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0072par0516	He called it "silence" and called it "suddenly taunting our party."
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0071par0517	You're going to talk?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0072par0518	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0071par0519	Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0074par0520	To you and to the AK PARTY. The same is true of the AK PARTY, at the point of my silence.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0071par0521	So you have multiplied the taunting part. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0075par0524	The National Movement Party has always acted on its own line once -- this sort of thing -- always said what it knew was right, always opposed to what it was wrong. We need to see this once. We agree that politics is a level business. In fact, everyone has to pay attention to the language here. Second: In this process and in another time, let no one take up politics on scaring these people.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0076par0527	We're saying the same thing.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0075par0528	That's what we're saying as the National Movement Party. I mean, but you have to be careful with that, too. I mean, there's a whole war thing going on over there, so whoever says that, it's wrong. There's no point in doing politics by scaring people. Let's tell our people the truth. Look, it's on TV screens, it's about 18 articles, politicians who don't tell our nation the truth. I'm afraid we're seeing this with regret. We know what he's going to do, and he's definitely going to come out of there.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0077par0529	We're saying it's a no.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0075par0530	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, of course we're against the party state.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0078par0531	Say it.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0075par0532	I mean, why don't you say something like, "Why don't you object?" But in the context of the referendum here, it's also an invalid assumption to make an assumption called the party state, which is that when we talk about it at another time, we say we're against it, but if this referendum comes out as a result of this referendum, there will be a party state in Turkey. This would be a wrong assessment, and we would not participate in this assessment at all.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0079par0533	Why would it be wrong?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0080par0534	You don't believe that, Master.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0075par0535	But other than that, we're not opposed to having a party state in the past or in the future, and we're against the National Movement Party. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0081par0537	Thank you, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0082par0538	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0081par0539	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0082par0540	Just now, as the speaker spoke, he said: "Sir, some MPs are pressuring us with our phones on social media. I am the one who gave them to us. That's teasing, I want promises from teasing.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0081par0541	He didn't give me a name.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0083par0542	I didn't mention the name.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0082par0543	But he implied me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0084par0544	Don't pick on me here, okay?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0085par0545	Did you give it to him?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0082par0546	Yeah, yeah. He teased me with a hint.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0085par0547	Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0086par0548	If there's anything Mr. Mahmoud would do here, he should apologize to us 100,000 times.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0087par0549	He needs to apologize to all of us.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0088par0550	So he's gonna talk about it with no shame? He'll probably apologize.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0086par0551	Please don't. And don't try to pull a rant out of here. Is that possible?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0089par0552	Our phones aren't private, they're our friends.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0090par0553	How is it not special?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0086par0554	Let's deal.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0091par0555	It's on the Internet.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0092par0556	Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0093par0558	Dear friends, dear MPs, my dear President, I salute you with respect and respect. Friends of the National Movement Party, don't worry, I'm giving you my cell phone here for 80 million, that's the public's deputy: 0 532 314 91 49.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0094par0560	You can't give us ours, bro.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0095par0561	For God's sake, stop being a populist, your life is populism.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0093par0562	Attorney Mahmut Tanal: 0 532 314 91 49.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0095par0563	Are you speaking specifically of the lawyer? Mr. Mahmut, why are you telling me about the lawyer?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0093par0564	Our whole nation can reach me. Our nation's trouble is ours. We say no to lawmakers who run away.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0095par0566	Mr. Mahmut, why are you saying you're a lawyer?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0093par0567	Dear friends, you are taunting Europe. Look, what does the election law say, 94/A me? There can be no propaganda outside the country or in the diplomatic missions, he says. I was in Batman, go to Batman, do propaganda; I was in Diyarbakır, go to Diyarbakır, do propaganda.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0095par0568	We're always there, always.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0093par0569	You can't leave, you can't go to the ruling party, you can't go to the others. You're bringing in the HDP who's gone. Only the Republican People's Party works in the region, dear friends. You've divided the country, you've torn the country apart, you've created a brother's quarrel. We're on the side of peace, we're on the side of democracy, we're on the side of freedom. Look, tension... Are you going to protest against Europe? O ministers, O Prime Minister! Close the companies of you and your children in the Netherlands, open a company in Turkey, close the companies in the Netherlands. The President of the Commission yelling at me, the car you're in, it's German. Let Turkey release its German vehicles, the Grand National Assembly. All vehicles used in the Turkish Grand National Assembly are German-branded, German-based. The speaker of the National Movement Party who attacked us, what brand is your president riding? Isn't the car he's riding a German-branded armored car, German-branded? Leave them alone.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0096par0573	Let's build a local vehicle. You said you can't do it. Let's build a local car. When we say "You can't do it," didn't you say "you can't do it"? No. No, not everything.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0093par0574	Three: Likewise, look, you're being nationalist, aren't you? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We say no to conjunctural nationalism.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0097par0577	You're riding the BMW. Shame on you. For God's sake, there's a brand-new BMW under there.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0093par0578	There are German soldiers at İncirlik Base in Adana. There are also Dutch soldiers at İncirlik Base in Adana.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0098par0579	Mr. Tanal, thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0093par0580	Let's get them deported. Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0098par0583	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0099par0584	Why did you say you're a lawyer, you think there'll be work here? It's a shame. It's a shame. You make an apology.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0100par0585	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0098par0586	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0100par0587	Sir, he just picked on my words.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0098par0588	In what sentence?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0100par0589	He said he shared our phones with us. It's against the rights of a person. I'll answer that.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0098par0590	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0101par0591	It's embarrassing. Why did you apologize, Mr. Mahmut? You shouldn't have apologized.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0102par0592	How can you give away our cell phones?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0103par0594	Mr. President, the honorable lawmakers are not the same as what the minister said here and came to our group.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0102par0595	That's what he does. He sings from behind the door, sings separately in front of it.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0103par0596	After sharing these phone calls, I often came to our group and apologized, and then I shared it here. It's a cheap hero, one.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0102par0597	That's right!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0103par0598	Number two: it's cheap to say your own phone from here.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0102par0600	That's right, bravo!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0103par0601	After my phone was shared, my lawyer and daughter called you several times, but you didn't answer your phone once.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0102par0602	He won't, he won't. He's an artist, artist!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0103par0603	Don't lie here, don't lie. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] After that, who gave you the right to share my private phone -- you're a lawyer -- to put so much pressure on the nationalist movement group? Anyone who wants to reach me already has my contact information in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; you have no right to share it. You're going to apologize, and you're going to come in here and say something else. Again, there is no armored vehicle assigned to Mr. President of the National Movement Party. The nationalist Movement Party's President, President of State Bahçeli, is the property of the National Movement Party's headquarters with the license plate MHP 01, and I want everyone to know that. Don't get us mixed up in the nationalist movement party, the designated cars, the cars you drive, don't mess with our cars.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0104par0607	BMW, BMW.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0103par0608	The National Movement Party has said the same thing today as it has so far. When the nationalist movement party came here with the 18-point constitutional amendment, did something else say on the street? Whatever he said yesterday, that's what he said today. Everyone has to go through their notebooks first when they're talking to the National Movement Party. Exposure traders try to stir up other people's past. Please, I invite you to be kind.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0104par0610	He doesn't understand, he doesn't understand.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0105par0611	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0106par0612	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0107par0613	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0105par0614	Mr. Master...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0106par0615	On the matter of the armored vehicle, in order for it to go into the reports, our president has been asked by the press, and our president has stated that he has not requested an armored vehicle. However, as far as we're concerned, Mr. Kilicdaroglu has taken the armored car. I mean, now, such cheap politics really don't suit you, it doesn't suit the Clave. Cheap politics and lies...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0108par0617	He did it yesterday.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0106par0618	Now, he bought a car for a general president who didn't buy an armored car. You're going to say, "You're going to have a general president who's going to buy an armored car; that's not politics."
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0109par0619	It's all lies!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0110par0620	It's material, it's material; there's nothing to do.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0111par0621	It's in the transcripts, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0112par0622	And I'll tell you something else: the president didn't accept him when it came to increasing the security guard's police, either. He said, "If we burn, don't let the populace children of Anatolia burn." You have no right to speak to such a general president, sir.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0113par0624	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0114par0625	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0113par0626	He's already made two clear oratories, and I want to hear from him about the bullying.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0114par0627	What sentence?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0113par0628	For example, the previous orator called me a liar. That is, officially, enough for the 69th article.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0114par0629	Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0113par0631	Dear friends... Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Master, what kind of vehicle are you in, what, Audi?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0115par0633	Yeah, you take care of your own vehicle.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0113par0634	Wait a minute... I'm riding my own shit, with my money, with my money.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0115par0635	I'm not doing politics on this, brother!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0113par0636	Is the car you took from the House Audi or not?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0115par0637	I didn't buy a car from the House.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0113par0638	Wait... whose car are you driving? You're the vice president of the group.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0116par0640	What's your group vice president's car? Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0117par0641	What does Engin Altay use?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0118par0642	Mr. Tanal, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0119par0643	Then do this...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0117par0644	What does Engin Altay use?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0118par0645	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0117par0646	What does Hamzacebi use?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0120par0647	If you're upset, leave the Audis to Germany.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0117par0648	That's a shame!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0121par0649	I didn't buy a car at the council, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0122par0650	Congressmans, please, sir.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0123par0651	Leave the Audis, then leave the Audis, and don't ride the Audis.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0121par0652	You have no shame!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0122par0653	Mr. Tanal, please don't bother with the person, sir. Please... please.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0123par0654	Then don't ride the Audis.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0124par0655	Simple! Simple!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0122par0656	Mr. Tanal, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0123par0657	My dear President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0122par0658	Don't get personal, sir.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0123par0659	Look...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0125par0660	Ask him what car Hamzacebi's in!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0123par0661	Ma'am, instead of yelling at me, go figure out who you're covering your head against in America. Ya, get over it, get over it. Say new words, say new words.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0126par0663	Tell me the phone bill.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0123par0664	Where do people cover their heads? One: he covers his head at the funeral. Two: he covers his head on the way to Umre. Three: the pilgrimage covers its head. You went and covered your head in front of the terrorist organization. You're the last person to talk to.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0127par0666	It's in his headdress.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0128par0667	For God's sake!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0129par0668	Mr. Tanal, just a moment...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0130par0669	Where did you cover your head?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0128par0670	None of your business!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0130par0671	How do I care?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0128par0672	None of your business! Who are you! None of your business!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0130par0673	In accordance with our religious needs, where is the head of our religion covered?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0128par0674	None of your business!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0130par0675	One: the head is covered at the funeral. Mr. President, step in. Two: Umreya, the head is covered on the way to the pilgrimage. Three... where is the head covered? You went to America and covered your head.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0131par0678	None of your business! None of your business!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0130par0679	Look, my dear brothers...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0131par0681	None of your business!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0130par0682	I don't care... You can't play with people's religious feelings. So, get on with it.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0131par0684	If you think you're gonna scare us with this, you're wrong. Get over it, get over it.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0132par0685	Are you a teacher?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0130par0686	My dear brothers, there can't be lawmakers running away from the public. I'll put you back on the phone.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0132par0687	He's gonna ask you guys?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0130par0688	Let the National Movement Party come and not run away from the public.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0133par0689	Tell him you're a lawyer.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0134par0690	You can't teach religion on the stand.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0135par0691	Who's running away from the public?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0136par0692	Isn't it the person who said no to the presidency? How many times did Mr. State Gardener say we don't want the presidency?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0137par0694	We just don't want to.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0136par0695	So, what changed, and what made you come back from it?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0137par0696	We don't want to.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit01spe0138par0697	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0138par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0139par0002	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0138par0003	Mr. Akçay, I give you my word according to Article 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0139par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not trying to create a polemic and argument, but I'm calling on friends to avoid unnecessary polemics and controversy. Mr. Tanal has just said a lot of things here, and although he has repeatedly apologized to us about publishing the phones of all the MPs of the National Movement Party, and has apologized to our president here, he has rephrased with a defensive attitude on the stand, there is no covert excuse for the crime committed in the open. I wonder if the Republican People's Party Group approves of these speeches. I'm worried about him. We will use a positive language. Of course, it is not possible to accept this language as a positive language. This office is talking about vehicles. All the party groups, the members of the group... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I complete, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0140par0013	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0139par0014	...that I also condemn the presidential representatives, the Speaker of Parliament, the clerks, the commissioners, the members of the House of Parliament, and, of course, I don't think the Republican People's Party Group approves of doing so. Mr. Tanal, first I say how your friends drive those vehicles, how many miles they drive, how much gas they spend... and I also say I'm not comfortable with the officers entering some kind of war with their communication costs, $1,200,000 in bills reflected in public. It's good to avoid these kinds of polemics. Of course, the public will appreciate all of this. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0141par0017	Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0142par0018	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0141par0019	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0142par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a promise from the concern of my colleague and from the question of whether the CHP Group approves what Mr. Tanal has said. Let me make it clear to you right away that the treatment of our ministers of Germany and then the Dutch governments, our ministers, to our beloved nation, I have no doubt as much as I do Mr. Akçay, Mr. Ustah, our entire nation, the MPs of other political parties, have been deeply injured, our pride has been hurt, naturally, we have suffered a loss of prestige. His reaction to German vehicles in today's speech is an emotional reaction from the injury of his pride, as do all of us. In this regard, the vehicles we're talking about here, the vehicles I'm driving...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0143par0026	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0142par0027	...the same vehicle used by Mr. Akçay and Mr. Ustah. Besides, we don't have a problem with the private sector of Germany, with the workers who make those vehicles in Germany, with the workers, with the federal administration of Germany. Thus, the return of these vehicles, the absence of the use of German goods, must be evaluated by a very thorough consideration of a situation. Because when we think about our 2.5 million family members, our citizens, our 400,000 citizens in the Netherlands -- I said so yesterday -- there is a need for tough diplomatic reflexes -- but in doing so, we also need to avoid attitudes that will lead to the decline of the lives of our citizens in the countries of the European Union. My dear colleagues have spoken of today's cars, directed by Germany and the Netherlands to our country and to our nation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish right away, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0144par0031	Complete, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0142par0032	I'd also like them to consider it an over-emotional response to this attitude. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0144par0034	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Can...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0145par0037	Mr. President, I certainly don't think it's right to deal with the character of lawmakers, representing the group. Deputies, vice presidents, clerks, political parties' representatives and other officials have been assigned a power tool. That's quite true. We don't think it's right to use these to use abuse here, to execute the dignity of lawmakers, and that's not the right thing to do. These are the things that discredit lawmakers and Parliament, and it is not right to put pressure on lawmakers in the process of the referendum in public, and I speak for all groups. I'm saying that we all have to protect the reputation of the MPs, the presence of the House together, and that we must avoid such words as best we can on behalf of all lawmakers. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0144par0039	Thank you, Mr. Can. In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, the second voice belongs to Istanbul MP Zeynel Emre. Here you go, Mr. Emre.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0146par0046	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends are different concepts of law and justice. Kenan made the law in the universe, but it wasn't fair. We're going to one of the most critical votes in the history of Turkey. On April 16th, we will experience perhaps the most important referendum of Turkey. Do you really believe in such a referendum that political parties can express their own opinion under just, equal conditions? For example, last week he went to Prime Minister Mush, didn't he? Under very difficult circumstances, there was a helicopter landing on the snow and people mobilising to get it out of there. If the Prime Minister had gone to Misha to promote the referendum, he went as the chairperson of the Justice and Development Party. So will the same helicopters be assigned to all four political parties -- so I'm asking a very simple question -- will the same possibilities be granted? For example, do you find it fair that governors, governors, judges, National Education Directors, propaganda for yes? The declaration of terrorists of those who say no... the precious orator of the Nationalist Movement Party has just said here: "I find the declarations of civil war screaming very dangerous." Yes, we are too, but we see it day and night in the squares: no one else is doing it directly, the Prime Minister is doing it; when there's a debate about the referendum, we say, "Yes, yes." He says, "See who says "No." It's as if someone else brought this offer and looked at the power, who says yes here, who says no, and who talks like he's made up his mind. The implications of the approach here are as follows: See, every day, from different provinces of Turkey, party representatives call and share information about their propaganda being blocked, attacked, and many of them have images. These are also shared with the public. This is the political atmosphere of those who say "no" during propaganda. I'm sure almost everyone in this parliament has a security problem. What, though, is one of the basic elements Turkey must do to overcome its security problem, Turkey's terrorism problem? It's the support of inner peace. Calling 50 per cent of the country "terrorism" is an indirect support for domestic peace in Turkey, even if it is indirect to dynamite and terrorism. Here, in the field, we can see that in terms of those who say yes, right? So, what happened to the young man who's been posing with a gun and threatening those who said no in the past few weeks? He was released the minute he was taken. I'm sure he's walking around with a pat on his back where he is now, maybe being treated like a hero. But here yesterday, Mr. Group President Engin Altay told us the details. Youths who travel for no have been detained, intervened, and in various ways, their propaganda, based on the laws of state of emergency, has been prevented, and this is called justice. Just today, the banner was cut off by Güngören County, friends, and right next to it is the banner. Do you think that's fair? Can those who cut off that banner go down there and put the sign down? Can you take it naturally? The provocations in the coffeehouses, again, are a complete scam that happened to our MP, Bulent Bey. He enters the coffee, someone is ready to record from his cell phone, pulls the table before the attack happens, and when he goes there and starts to talk, there's an attack as a result of provocation; there's an attack on the door, where the attackers enter immediately as if they were attacked, and a supporter media and cameraman comes in, interviewing them, and connects them to live broadcasts. Now, isn't that a scam? Can you imagine that there's a fair propaganda here? Dear friends, look, during the State of Emergency, there are dozens of examples that prohibit constitutional construction, dozens of countries. What was the State of Emergency for? As a matter of fact, after the coup, he was given the reason for the fight against ▪ and that was his motive. Even the snow tire is being arranged with the State of Emergency today, isn't it? For example, over the past few weeks, Turkey's many years of efforts have resulted in its savings transferred overnight to the Entity Fund. As a matter of fact, isn't it a matter to discuss, to be held under the supervision of us, the House? What did this have to do with the State of Emergency? Who could object to that? What is the experience of those who have been appointed there, who have been appointed to the Entity Fund, and those who have been appointed there? Did we talk about this here? Or why was the Entity Fund created, why were billions of dollars' worth of ornaments created, and why was a debt pool created to get a loan? Did we discuss this here? Has anyone asked why this fund is out of the Court's control? Dear friends, here's where you brought us, unfortunately, the situation you've caused is so embarrassing that we can't even explain it. When the law is restored in Turkey one day, of course, these will be investigated and, of course, all of these will be accounted for, but I gave this example for this example: There is a regime in Turkey that you want to dominate after April 16th. Right now, we're watching a trailer of that regime. So, just as the country is run under an State of Emergency regime, right now, after April 16th, if you reach your goals, we will become a country ruled by the ruling regime of Turkey under the law, and we will have completely given up democracy. We have no choice but to say no to this bill that will remove the democratic quality of our Republic, which will lead to instability, authoritarianism, poverty. We can explain perfectly why we say no, we have the right and the right reasons, but you can't explain why you said yes. Instead of trying to convince people, you're trying to create a mass by criminizing people who say no, by scaring the community. It's not just anybody, it's the managers of your party. Dear friends, we say that the citizens of this country, those who say yes, and those who say no, have a place above our heads, and we respect their decisions. What we expect here is that this race will run fairly. Today, can you say that Turkish Radio and Television can broadcast equally and fairly? Come on, friends, every night, a representative from each party will go and discuss it in the TRT, the amendment, the 18th amendment. You guys up for this? Can you say yes to that? Can you call this what I am? So, what's the motive here? Look, when you say stability, you can't create stability if it's unfair. The defenders now say that Turkey is in a second war for salvation. Come on, let's get this right for a moment. Didn't the Party of Justice and Development bring us to this situation, friends? If Turkey has a beka problem, are we going to cross this problem by dividing society by 50 to 50 percent, by enemyizing it? The presidents, prosecutors, governors, governors of this country are all involved in the campaign, yes, and that's how we're going to make a national union? You and I both know that there's a very unfair, very antidemocratic campaign going on right now. Therefore, the remaining time here is of great benefit to be placed under Parliamentary supervision, supervision, research. It's also possible to avoid the worst of things that could happen next. We say, as the PKK says, as we are not interested in any of this, that repeating the opinion of any terrorist organization over and over again is propaganda for a terrorist organization. And we curse that thought with violence. We know that our Republic was founded ninety-four years ago. We will unite with our people the days when we will establish a real state of law that will crown our Republic with democracy. On April 16th and April 17th, I say Turkey will sail in good faith. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0147par0062	Thank you, Mr. Emre. Against the proposal, Yilmaz Bronze, Bart's MP. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0148par0066	They don't understand the system, tell me again.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0149par0067	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge against the HDP group proposal. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. The HDP group proposal demands that a research proposal be discussed today for the investigation into allegations that the referendum process has been under pressure for those who have been preaching no, and that the propaganda has been obstructed. Before I go on these claims, I would like to point out that the constitutional amendment referendum that we're going to hold on April 16th, which gives the government power directly to the nation, that strengthens the neutrality of the judiciary, that will now eliminate the impact on our country, which is faced with coups every ten years, has a very important provision that erases the understanding of guardianship from the Constitution.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0150par0070	What if the president dies?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0149par0071	The Articles of the Constitution, 18 articles are open here, I wish you'd open them and read them...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0150par0072	What if the president dies?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0149par0073	...you can clearly see what these substances mean.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0151par0074	You've forgotten about people in those 18 articles.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0152par0075	You're talking about what's not in writing.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0149par0076	Now it's said that there's one thing repeated over and over again: Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, here's what he said to those who don't want it. There's absolutely no such thing. We are all aware of the propaganda of terrorists, especially those belonging to the PKK, DHKP-C, such as these organisations.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0153par0077	Where, we've never heard of it?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0154par0078	We have no contact with Fetullah.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0149par0079	That's what they're going to give us now, the members of the terrorist organization are saying. Just because we say "no" doesn't mean that everyone who gives is a terrorist.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0154par0080	We have no contact with Fetullah. You used to have contact with Fetullah Smiley, and now it's going on? We don't know, we haven't heard what Fetullah Gulen said.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0155par0081	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker, sir.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0149par0082	But preventing terrorist organizations from saying no is also pressure for those who say yes. That's what you get out of this. There's absolutely no such thing.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0156par0083	Will Fetullah Gulen also vote? Will Fetullah Smiley vote?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0149par0084	The freedom of the givers and the givers in Turkey is wide open.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0156par0085	Are the terrorists voting for this Constitution?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0157par0086	Lies, lies!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0156par0087	Who said yes in 2010, in 2010?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0158par0088	Where is it closed? Closed in the Netherlands, closed in European countries.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0156par0090	Who said yes in the 2010 referendum, who?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0158par0091	In countries that do not want to strengthen this country, to become a big country, to become a major country, to become a global project, to strengthen its democracy, to strengthen the republic's regime, to reflect the will of the people, yes, to HDP MPs and CHP MPs, the halls are open to the Turkish Republic's Foreign Minister, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Family, the halls are closed to the parliaments. Our people know the picture very well, very clearly.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0159par0092	Lies, lies, lies!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0156par0093	You've closed the book. You've closed the halls for us. Your municipalities put an embargo on us.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0160par0094	Calm down, calm down.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0156par0095	We're calm, we're very calm, we're talking calmly.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0161par0096	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, now, 18 amendments, these are very important. We're always responding to distortions, and we're actually telling each of the hall meetings that we go to, in village coffees, we're telling our citizens very clearly what these 18 articles bring to our citizens.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0162par0097	Does the Speaker represent the President?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0156par0098	It's not just 18 articles, it's a bag of constitutions, a bag of constitutions.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0161par0099	Now, you don't get up here every once in a while and tell the nation what these 18 articles bring. You're the one who doesn't.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0162par0100	Does the Speaker represent the President?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0161par0101	Look, we're dealing with distortions about every single substance.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0162par0102	What's the national will in the House?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0161par0103	When we look at the matter, it's different, but when we look at the propaganda of the non-profits, we see that there are things that have nothing to do with it.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0162par0104	Tell me, does the Speaker represent the President?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0163par0105	You forgot national will there, you forgot national will.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0161par0106	You tried to present it as if it were a regime change. Now our nation realizes the truth.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0162par0107	You're giving power of attorney to the appointed officer.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0164par0108	Congressmans, sir, please listen to the speaker, please, I beg you.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0165par0109	Mr. President, the preacher is lying.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0166par0110	Look, these are the changes that strengthen the republic's regime. These are changes that strengthen the rule of law. The first four articles of our Constitution are protected by unitary structures.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0167par0111	The Speaker has no power of attorney, so where are you strengthening it?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0166par0112	These are the changes that made those first four more likely to strengthen the unitary structure.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0168par0113	Tell it to the MPP, to the MPP.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0166par0114	When you look at it, you'll actually see it, but our nation sees it. We give the people the authority to establish government with the presidential government system, not through Parliament.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0169par0115	The president is leaving his power of attorney abroad.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0170par0116	Congressmans, I'm going to have to take a break from the merger. Please, sir...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0166par0117	In one of the two polls put before the nation, he will select Parliament, Parliament; in the other, he will choose his government; in the other, he will choose the presidential government.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0169par0118	The Vice President is acting as acting minister. Is that a will?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0166par0119	However he chooses the mayor and members of parliament directly, he will choose the same way, but those who see too much of this authority, no, the nation cannot choose its government directly, it must be by means of it. Those who say "No" are allowed to give it to the people.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0171par0120	Will the people choose the minister, the minister?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0166par0121	But we believe that this nation is strong and powerful enough to choose its own government directly.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0172par0123	While the president is abroad, he becomes a deputy officer. Where's the will here?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0166par0124	You have to trust these people. I wish you could trust people. That nation will also elect Parliament, the Parliament, to oversee the government he chose by the hand of the House.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0173par0125	Where are those people in Barzani? Is Barzani a patriot, too?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0166par0126	That's what this system is about. I wish you could read this stuff, but you don't get a chance to twist it.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0173par0127	Where are those people in Barzani? Are you counting from there?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0174par0128	I can tell you're not reading, you're not reading.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0166par0129	Since you constantly express your own thesis, you have to go over the thesis you created at the beginning.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0173par0130	Barzani was working on it.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0166par0131	This is a system that generates stability, this system has a choice.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0173par0132	Barzani's a patriot, too?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0166par0133	If the nation likes the conduct of its president for five years, there are no more than two periods that can choose another term. That's why you're afraid for him, the president of the Republican People's Party is afraid for him.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0173par0134	There's a third term, there's a third term! That's three years of subtlety!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0166par0135	Losing the convention seven times, losing the election won't be possible.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0175par0136	What's it to you? None of your business!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0166par0137	Once you lose an election, that president won't be able to stand there anymore. That's the most important thing about this system.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0175par0138	Mind your own business!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0176par0139	It's none of our business! Look at you, look at your Prime Minister!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0166par0140	Now, we've made a constitutional amendment in 2007. You didn't get the President elected, so we said, "Let the people choose."
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0177par0141	You've also changed the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0166par0142	You said, "Don't let the nation choose." Then you said, "The nation can't elect the president." You said, "No." But we said, "The people have the authority."
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0178par0143	Where is he, where is he, where is the Prime Minister? Where's the Prime Minister with 49 percent? He was chosen by the will of this nation, 49%. Where is it?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0166par0144	Now, there's a president elected by the people, the Prime Minister elected by the people, and there's no harmonisation between the two at the moment...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0179par0145	The people don't choose your proxy.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0178par0146	The guy got 49 percent, where is he now?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0166par0147	...but in this beautiful country where our children will live in the future, in order to avoid crises, we need to adapt this government model to the presidential election model, and we need to do that. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Now...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0180par0150	You threw out your own Prime Minister, your own Prime Minister. You've chosen Davutoglu yourself.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0166par0151	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0181par0152	What we see every moment is...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0182par0153	Congressmans, I have stated that I will have to interrupt the merger.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0166par0154	The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0182par0155	Wait a minute, wait a minute... I mean, I'd like to invite you to a quiet moment, please. I mean, there's a reasonable limit to talking, I think we've crossed that line. Carry on, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0183par0158	Mr. President, of course it's so uncomfortable to hear the truth.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0184par0159	Misunderstanding, what truth, my friend!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0185par0160	We're comfortable, comfortable!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0183par0161	I wish... Listen to me, listen to me. You're criticizing the election of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, the system that's being brought in now, and you're going to say no to that. In this system, this system, the existing system, is open to this again.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0186par0164	Who changed him, my friend?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0183par0165	You also did this; you went to the Constitutional Court in 2010, you brought in the list process, and the Republican People's Party was the cause of the settlement in the list.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0187par0166	Boo! In 2010, you cooperated with the government and changed the Constitution.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0183par0167	Now, dear friends, the impact floor, the impact that happens every ten years now... yes, we're doing today's battle with the laws of the state, but for our children in the future, we need to remove the substances that are available to our Constitution, for the future's sake, for the future of our country's future. Can you say no to the 16th article, which stipulates that the Turkish Armed Forces should be subject to the State Control Board? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] See, we have to make this change so that the Turkish Armed Forces don't have illegal structures in dark rooms, people don't have guns pointed at people.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0187par0170	You opened those rooms, you opened those rooms. You opened the cosmic rooms!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0183par0171	248 martyrs, over 2,000 veterans. If we don't do this, we won't be able to take care of their trust.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0187par0172	You handed it over to him.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0183par0173	Very valuable MPs, the 18-year-old issue is still being distorted. Look, this is my fourth term, I've been a congressman for ten years, and I'm not a congressman now, and even if I quit now, I can't retire even though I've been a congressman for ten years. Don't make this distortion anymore, it's a shame. They're going to put an 18-year-old boy in front of thousands of people in a square, and he's going to retire in two years. In fact, it must have been Mr. President-in-Chief who had done it in the past.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0187par0174	Doesn't he get it or doesn't he get it? Doesn't the Regent get the right?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0188par0175	Lies, liars!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0183par0176	If he's an 18-year-old congressman, he can't retire until he's 65. Our people don't respect these distortions anymore.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0187par0177	You're twisting, giving false information.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0183par0178	What is it? He'll be exempted from military service! There's no such thing. The item is clear. Don't you have a reading?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0189par0179	Read it, read it.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0187par0180	You signed it without reading it, you signed it without reading it.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0183par0181	He says he will not be associated with military service. He says that his military service must be postponed. You won't get anywhere with these distortions. What is it? When the President gets up in the morning, he'll be able to terminate the House!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0187par0183	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0183par0184	Is there such a thing here?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0187par0185	Yeah, yeah. Read it, read it, read it.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0183par0186	You say yes, and you're a lawyer. What's he saying? If the President of Turkey renews the election of the Grand National Assembly, his mission will be terminated, he says.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0187par0187	That's the point, that's why he's doing it, to change you.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0183par0188	He even says that if he does it in his second term, he will never run again. Why are you twisting it?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0187par0189	You haven't read it, you haven't read it, go home, read it.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0183par0190	If you don't read the other sentence of matter, you're not being honest. 600 MPs, increase the power of representation by 50 more. There are not two of Bart's MPs, but three of them from Bilecik, and not two of Artvin's.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0190par0194	Friend, how many people are there, and you're raising them to 600? How many people come to the House and raise it to 600? How many people are here to discuss the law?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0183par0195	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0191par0196	Here you go. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0183par0197	Why should it bother the people to increase their representation, to strengthen the House?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0192par0198	Let them come to the House first, to the House.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0183par0199	Your one-man reviews are all hollow. Can we get the president to be investigated right now, do we, in our Constitution? The President is irresponsible. But with this system being brought in, the President's criminal responsibility to parliament is now being brought in, his political responsibility to the nation.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0193par0200	400 MPs, 400 MPs.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0194par0201	Will he be able to find 400 lawmakers, 400 lawmakers?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0195par0202	Tell me how many deputies we need.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0196par0203	Again, look, all of the President's transactions and transactions are currently not subject to judicial supervision, but with this change, we are subjecting all of the President's transactions to judicial control.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0197par0204	Do you have the heart? Will you be able to judge the President? Do you have the heart? Can you judge Erdogan? Do you have the guts?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0196par0205	You're saying: "They're taking away the vote of confidence." See, that's what people who are afraid of the nation say. We're not taking down trust, we're giving the vote of confidence, we're giving it to the people. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) The government that the nation trusts, gathered here a week later, and you trusted us, but we don't trust you, so once again we're going to take a vote of confidence here. It's an insult to the nation. First you have to think about where you're going with what you're saying.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0198par0206	When did this happen? When did this happen in Congress?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0196par0207	With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0199par0209	Thank you, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0200par0210	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0199par0211	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0200par0212	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, I would like to point out to our party that we have not read the Constitutional amendment proposal...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0199par0213	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0200par0217	Unfortunately, there's no chance of fixing 11 minutes of damage in two minutes, physically and pedagogically, there's no way. I'm going to ask two questions, ask two questions, get out of here, and make an offer. Mr. Orator came in, told me another story, and then our Zeynel comes out, tells us another story, everyone looks out their own window, thank you, there's nothing wrong with that. Now, this has been much discussed in reading and reading the Constitution, and I shall be included in it. I asked Mr. President a question on Monday, and he may not ask me a question, and he may not answer me, but I asked this -- very, very, he, the nation -- in the name of the great nation -- and I said, "Mr. President, with this offer, can the House elections be renewed with 100,000 signatures?" I'm still waiting, and we're still waiting.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0201par0221	He gave me his answer on TV.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0200par0222	The president's spokesman will at least give me an answer. I asked Mr. Prime Minister a question, as I said to Mr. Bali Yıldırım, the first signator of the proposal: Mr. Bali Yıldırım, does the 17th article (h) of your proposal gain immunity in the first election to be made the last joke of the 67th article of our current Constitution? Come in. The Prime Minister's party is here, come in, come in; you are the MPs of the party where the President is the founder, come in, come in. Two questions. Who has read this proposal, how much has read it? This one has read it. This one has read it so much. But the sad thing is that it is understood that the owners of the proposal had no knowledge of the offer. Shame! Shame!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0202par0225	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0203par0227	What your president said on the radio, you answer him, one.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0204par0228	Mr. Orator...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0202par0229	I can't hear you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0203par0230	Second of all, we are representatives of the nation, not of the people's googists. Please know your place and talk like that.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0204par0231	Mr. Orator, regarding our motion...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0202par0232	Mr. Altay?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0204par0233	No, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0205par0234	Ma'am, I think you have an excuse to understand that you're listening. Who says you're not a representative of the nation?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0202par0235	Just a second, members of the law...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0206par0236	What do you mean, people's goys?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0202par0237	Mr. Erdogan, please, sir...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0207par0238	Guys, I said you were a googist. I didn't say you weren't an agent.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0202par0239	Mr. Altay, please, sir... Mr. Timberboy, I'm listening.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0208par0241	Earlier, Yilmaz said that the Prime Minister and the President regarding the system did not call those who said "no", and that they were lied to.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0209par0242	Don't go everywhere!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0210par0243	Look at you!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0211par0244	What the hell!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0209par0245	What do you mean?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0211par0246	I mean, is there a language like that, Mr. Engin?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0209par0247	Don't speak, I came to apologize to you one day. You didn't reach out to me. Don't speak.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0212par0248	I invite you, I invite you, I invite you.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0209par0249	Try to understand what you're listening to.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0212par0250	What's goygoy?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0209par0251	Understand that you're listening!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0213par0252	Okay, okay... look, Hosnuya, look, no, that's not true.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0209par0253	Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0214par0254	I know exactly what you're talking about, so take your time.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0215par0255	But what is it to be so soft and all that, Mr. Engin?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0216par0256	Me, too.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0217par0257	Did he mean you?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0216par0258	He gave us some examples of our motion and my speech.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0217par0259	Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. I promise you for two minutes...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0218par0261	Before you know you're listening, you're so full of shit.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0219par0262	Oh, Mr. Engin, that's a shame!
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0220par0263	Mr. President, we don't accept such language.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0219par0264	Mr. President, a woman is officially insulting our deputy. What do you mean by that, dear? The deputy's saying something from there.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0221par0265	What do you mean? You're interfering with everything, what's wrong with that?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0219par0266	Mr. President, please step in, warn me.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0222par0267	That's not what a bunch of vice presidents would say. Oh! We don't accept that language! Get the transcripts.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0223par0269	Here, look.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0224par0270	Mr. Kerestecioglu, please, sir, I'm rebooting your time. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0225par0274	Mr. President, did the President and the Prime Minister call those who said no terrorists? He claims he didn't, Mr. Yilmaz Bronze. On 13 February 2017 -- I've already told you -- but I think we have to say some things over and over again -- in his statement at Ataturk Airport before Bahrain's visit, those who say no are near July 15th. He declared a coup artist, as he did on 13 March 2017 in a special TV program where he attended the program, where he used no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. That's not the kind of thing a president should be neutral about on his way to a referendum, so don't hold back just because he's lying or something. And every time I get up here, July 15th, the State of Emergency came from this, and I don't want to hear about it. There really is a trial going on today, so look at his political wing. For example, what the 37 MPs mentioned there are actually implying, were there lawmakers in that case, or why do you say there are no political wings, why did you suddenly shut down the coup commission? I need to take a look at this. By the age of 18, this is the only item in the proposal that can only be explained to get votes, which is a populist, but I would also like to say that as the group president of a party that has the youngest MPs: Yesterday unemployment rates were announced, and Turkey must pay $200 billion in debt within a year. Young people are unemployed, young people are hungry, and young people are most interested in this. I'd also like to ask you that we can't be on any television channel, that 160 journalists are under arrest, that 160 journalists are under arrest, and that the child's rights permanent commission is set up in this parliament -- against the abuse.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0226par0279	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0227par0280	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0226par0281	Mr. Bronze...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0227par0282	The words I said were distorted. And children's rights...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0226par0284	I can't hear you, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0227par0285	The words I said were misreaded.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0228par0286	I didn't even mention the words you said.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0227par0287	And about the child's rights commission...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0229par0288	Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0227par0291	Mr. President, the high-profile MPs, of course, are clear on what I'm saying here, in our nation's discretion, everyone is saying it. With regards to child rights, yes, we worked together with Fiz Hanýz Hanım, in the Commission on the Obstruction of Child Instruction, we have prepared our report. Some legal regulations have come to life, related to the control of the dorms. We also offered the law on the establishment of a permanent child's rights commission as lawmakers from the EC PARTY. The Republican People's Party has an offer in the same way, you have one, you have an MHP, and hopefully after this public vote process, this commission, which is very important to our children...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0230par0293	But in the meantime, the rapes continue.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0227par0294	... And I believe that all political parties will work together at the point of assembly because our children are our future, they are vulnerable to the dangers of society. Yes, I'd like to point out that we're sensitive at this point as Congress.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0231par0295	Unfortunately, one person's future is more important than the other.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0227par0296	The stuff Engin Bey was talking about... The matter here is open one by one, we all have our readers. The amendments to the electoral code will not be implemented within a year. Oh, this amendment can be applied within a year. There's no doubt about it. Article Seven: 100,000 people gather, collect signatures, and show the candidate of the President; there is nothing more democratic than that. Look, if political parties find 5 per cent, they can nominate, small parties...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0232par0298	That's not what he says.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0227par0299	...parties with the Mecliste group can nominate...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0233par0300	He's twisting it again.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0227par0301	...without a party of independent people, 100,000 citizens gather together, can present a candidate; it is not right to vote no for something more democratic than that, and I want to express it. Again, yes, that's usually the criticism, but the other reviews haven't been answered. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0234par0305	Thank you, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0235par0306	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0234par0307	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0235par0308	Mr. orator, in my speech, 100,000 signatures to be nominated for President, what could be more democratic than this? It's as if I was against it, in my speech...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0236par0309	That's what you said.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0237par0310	Then, yes...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0235par0311	...as opposed to this, he made a judgmental assessment of what I was talking about.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0238par0312	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0239par0313	How many substances do you agree to in exchange for the system? How many items do you accept?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0238par0314	Please, Mr. Altay, don't make a fuss. I hope we can end this here.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0240par0315	Mr. Engin, I assume you'll apologize to our deputy. Mr. Engin, I assume you'll apologize to Hosniye Haným.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0241par0317	Yilmaz Bronze, are you making fun of people's minds...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0242par0318	Oh, please, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0241par0319	...are you making fun of the people? I didn't say it was a strange situation. I said, "If the President signs 100,000 people, the parliamentary elections will be renewed," he said.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0242par0320	No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0243par0321	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0241par0322	He said he did.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0243par0323	Show me. Yeah, where does it say that?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0241par0324	He said, "We will show you."
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0243par0325	Tell me where he wrote it.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0241par0326	Mr. Prime Minister also said that the last joke of the Constitution 67 was that Muharrem Sarıkaya said no, nothing like that. You just denied the Prime Minister here, and I congratulate you, you're an honest man, you've denied the Prime Minister, you've told the truth, but you've distorted a truth I've told you. Mr. President may have read his powers about him, but he didn't read the entire text; had he read them, read them, and signed 100,000 people, would he have said that the parliamentary elections would be renewed?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0243par0327	It's not like that.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0244par0328	Nah.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0243par0329	It's only written by the President; the text is there.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0245par0330	He wouldn't. That's what I said.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0246par0331	They didn't hear it because they were watching TRT.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0245par0332	But, Yilmaz Tunç, a very talented friend of ours, says something that 100,000 people gather signatures and show the presidential candidate, brother?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0247par0333	So you agreed.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0245par0334	It's not ethical, it's unethical.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0247par0335	Ethics, ethics.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0245par0336	You come now, you answer if you want, and I'll answer. Greetings.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0248par0339	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0249par0340	Mr. Bronze...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0248par0341	Mr. President asked me to answer, so I'd like a word.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0249par0342	No, he doesn't want you to answer, he doesn't need me to promise you. If there's bullying...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0250par0344	He was just picking on me.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0249par0345	One moment, members of lawmakers, Mr. Bronze is an experienced congressman, and he can express his point. Why are you trying to help him?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0250par0346	We're vice presidents, we always say that.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0249par0347	Yes, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0251par0348	He used statements that I denied our Prime Minister.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0249par0349	Here you go, Mr. Bronze, two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0252par0351	They didn't hear the president because he was watching TRT.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0251par0353	Yes, good lawmakers, there is absolutely no denying our Prime Minister.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0253par0354	Correction... correction...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0251par0355	The Parliamentary elections can be renewed by ▪100,000 signatures. The Prime Minister did not use the sentence. It's already open...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0253par0356	I didn't say the Prime Minister, he said the President.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0251par0357	Our president doesn't have that expression either. However, there are many statements you have denied. You said: "There is a prime minister in this system." You said: "If a president of the people's choice, a president of the people's choice, and there is a problem of harmony between the two, how will we prevent this crisis from happening?" [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] So, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, did he actually make this system sloppy, or is there something else he wants to say subconsciously?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0254par0360	That's not reckless.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0251par0361	A public-elected president, a public-elected prime minister. In this model, we have to unite the execution under one roof; we have to strengthen the execution, we have to strengthen the government.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0255par0362	Fifteen years we haven't been in power.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0251par0363	Not only do we defend it at this time, but in the past Alparslan Turkesh has defended it, and Necmettin Erbakan has defended it, and Ozal has defended it, and Yazbioğlu has defended it, and Demirel has defended it.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0256par0364	Mr. Recep didn't defend him, Mr. Recep didn't defend him in 1993.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0251par0365	And in this period, we continue to defend. The administration will be strong, and the Parliament that oversees it will be strong, and the judiciary will be neutral; that is the essence of these changes. We have to turn Turkey into a more democratic, more modern, stable system. We have to give this country a government model, a government model, not a coupger every ten years, but a constant stability, subject to the control of the people and the Assembly. We're doing something very important for our future, for our children, and we're in the process of making an important decision.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0256par0366	The government is made up of whom, Yilmaz Bey, tell me that too.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0251par0367	I said no to the group proposal, but I say yes to the referendum.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0256par0369	Who is the government made up of, Yilmaz Bey?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0257par0370	Thank you, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0258par0371	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0257par0372	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0258par0373	In his speech, Mr. Orator, the main opposition party received a statement from Mr. President, saying it was a slip and a lie.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0257par0374	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0258par0376	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bronze, you know, I know, all three of these are slips of the tongue, all three of them.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0259par0378	It's a long sentence.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0258par0379	Wait, wait, wait, don't worry. Now, let's start from the top to the bottom: Mr. President really knew that with 100,000 people, with 100,000 signatures, the parliamentary elections would not be renewed, but he did. What did he mean by that? I don't know. Mr. Prime Minister didn't know that the last joke of 17 (h) and 67 were granted immunity for the first election, it was a technical matter, he might not know, I don't know. If the president and the Prime Minister are from a separate party, there will be problems. The matter is like this: Even here, on this bench, you said 100,000 jobs, where you would call the president. It's about 100,000, the President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0260par0381	That's different.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0258par0382	What we're saying there is that we stand by our claim that if the president of a separate party, the president of a majority party in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey comes from a separate party, there will be problems. You know why it does?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0261par0383	Why?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0258par0384	You give them both equal pens, equal authority pens. It's not a problem right now, it's not a problem. Is there a problem between Mr. Gul and Mr. Erdogan?
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0262par0385	So...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0258par0386	It didn't come out of any of them. But if you give them both the power to make the law, it'll be a problem. We're against it. And let me tell you, there are common values, common denominators that have kept this nation alive and standing for a thousand years. The presidency is the highest of these common denominators and values. When the time comes, we'll all gather under that umbrella. So let the presidency be a common value, we say it, we can't explain it. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0263par0389	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Hosnuye Erdogan, come in. I'll turn on your microphone for a minute.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0264par0393	Thank you, Mr. President. As acting chief of the group, our deputy has said a word not to be said to a deputy lady. The General Assembly of the Veterans has witnessed this. I expect an apology from them. If they don't apologize, I'm inviting them to apologize. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0265par0396	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Members of parliament, during the previous session, during a speech by Mr. Mahmut Tanal....from the bench, some of our MPs used some sentences in response to the speech of Mr. Tanal. It's a tradition in Parliament that when the atmosphere of the General Assembly gets tense, our lawmakers use the seats they're sitting in to speak out against the minister on the stand. But two of those words were directed directly at me. Therefore, I have a personal right to defend the MPs of the Parliament, given to me by Article 64 of the Civil Code. On the basis of the sentence, I will have an answer for the friends who use these sentences. Mr. Tanal has started a car discussion, a car-brand debate. From his seat, Mr. Hakan Sergeantoglu asked me, "What is Hamzacebi using?" He even stood up and waved his hand at me with such an angry expression. I couldn't hear what you were saying, but I got the transcripts, and I saw this sentence. Mr. İlknur Eyüköz, deputy chairman of the Justice and Development Party, ask Mr. Mahmut Tanal, which car does Hamzacebi ride in response to. Congressmans, these kinds of sentences, according to my understanding, I commit a crime, but Hamzacebi also commits it.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0266par0401	It's a very difficult explanation.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0267par0402	Don't push it...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0265par0403	If you're right about this, you don't need to give an example of the Deputy Speaker who runs the merger. There's a political party group belonging to Mr. Tanal. I'll tell you the truth now. If I were to say: "All Parliamentary Speakers of the National Assembly of Turkey, all the members of the group, and all the heads of the commissions, are in the same brand. " There is nothing I can do to justify myself by adding Hamzacebi to the defence context, which will be criticised. I'm congratulating these two friends of mine.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0266par0404	Mahmoud Tanal.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0268par0405	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0265par0406	I won't promise.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0268par0407	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0265par0408	I won't make any promises, sir.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0268par0409	I don't drive a car like this, so there's teasing.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0265par0410	Mr. Sergeant...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0268par0411	I don't drive any authority vehicle, so there's teasing.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0265par0412	Mr. Sergeant, you said my name...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0268par0413	Right.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0265par0414	What does Hamzabi use? You tease me.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0268par0415	Right.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0265par0416	So I take the right that the Civil Code gave me, and I defend myself, and I don't accuse anyone of defending me.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0268par0417	And I'm the psychology of guilt, as if I were doing it. You said, "I don't have a authority tool..."
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0265par0421	I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0268par0422	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0269par0423	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0270par0424	Mr. President, she wants a word, Mrs. Firstinur.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0268par0425	Mr. President, I want a promise.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0269par0426	I want a promise.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0271par0427	Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0269par0428	I want word from my position according to 60.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0272par0429	Mr. President, I want word on 60.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit02spe0271par0430	Unacceptable. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit03spe0271par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will begin the open vote of the Turkish Ministry of Environment and Forestry, which is part of the agenda's "Operations to Vote" section, as well as the draft of the Dair Law Charter, which is suitable for ratification of Covenant in the Environment Area between the Iraqi Republic's Environment Ministry. The open vote has been approved with an electronic voting device. I'll give you three minutes to vote. I ask that members who have not been able to enter the system during the time of the vote ask the technical staff for help and that the members who have not been able to get into the system despite this help should deliver their ballots to the presidency within a three-minute period of voting. In addition, I would like to ask that the ministers who will vote by proxy vote be voted by any minister, the color of the game, and the ballot, which bears his name and name and signature, be delivered to the presidency again during the time of the vote. I'm starting your voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-03-16sit04spe0271par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough meeting in the open vote of the entire Law Bill 354 rows. I will now repeat the open vote. I'll give you three minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Since the second vote did not find enough meetings, the decision required to discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues on Tuesday (April 18th 2017) at 15 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Have a good evening.
