tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. Erzurum EYOF 2017 belongs to Erzurum MP Mustafa Ilıcalı, who wants to talk about the European Youth Olympic Winter Festival. Here you go, Mr. Ilıcan.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, my dear MPs, my fellow officers and fellow citizens who are watching us on the screen, I salute you all. Once, at first, at first, I didn't have a speech today, Heromarash MP Imran Kılıç gave me his due. I'd like to thank my esteemed Regent and our Parliamentary Deputy Chairman Akif Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0003par0012	We're listening to you, so thank us.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0002par0013	And thank you very much. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Then let's start with something that concerns everyone. I'll tell you what I'll say in my speech and what I'll say yes for.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0004par0016	We know that, Hajji.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0002par0017	But with his power and opposition, I'll expect you all to say yes. For what, yes, I would like to announce that the 2026 Winter Olympics would be nominated for Erzurum-Erzincan-Sarikat. We have a lot of potential in these Olympics. Let the Great National Assembly of Turkey give a support first, let our government support, give us an extraordinary advantage over the development of that region. (EC PARTY and CHP rows) Now we're looking at the main opposition, although not the entire opposition, and I think the National Movement Party and HDP will also support it. Dear MPs, well, why Erzurum or Sarikamish could run for the Winter Olympics, I'd like to share it with you. Currently, the Winter Olympics, called EIOF, are being held in Erzurum, the European Youth Winter Olympics. Young people of 14 and 18 are participating, and about 680 athletes from 34 European countries are participating, we have about 70 degrees from Turkey, and before these games, Erzurum had taken the 2011 Universiade Games, he had successfully done it, and before that he had hosted two more international games. And because he's done it all successfully, that means they're a big coaster. At work on Sunday, Mr. Health Minister Recep Akdağ, our Sports Minister Akif Çağatay Kılıç Bey, our former Minister of Interior Efkan Ala, our governor, our mayor, our president, was a magnificent opening at Erzurum, Erzurum Kazbekir Stadium. Here are the shining stars of 34 countries, the shining stars of our country. In the beginning of the work, we received three percent in the snowboarding, a fourth in the jump -- there are many branches, nine in the competition -- in many areas of winter sports, and in many areas of ice skating. In the meantime, why am I giving this speech today: I have two requests from our esteemed Parliament, from our MPs; I invite you to Erzurum this weekend with my most heartfelt feelings that we can run for the Winter Olympics. There's an event that's very important, and the EYOF may be going to end at 18, but we have to give it a shot at art here. Erzurum Ataturk University School of Fine Arts opened YOF Cultural Street. It's amazing, I'm very impressed, and many of our guests have been affected. How much can I show you from here... the ancient works of Erzurum, here is Erzurum's Double Minareli Medesesi, Erzurum's homes, Bakırcı Mosque, and Clock Tower, a street of ice that symbolizes 100 tons of snow and ice? Thank you very much, Dean Mustafa Bey, President Omar Bey. The teachers worked for a month and built 100 tons of this street. Now, this street will serve a month. Please go this weekend, and for those of you who have not seen the Palandöken of Erzurum, see the Concourse, see the snow courses here, ski here, and see this street. I'm showing a few more visuals here. Other than that, it's an enormous street and the ice sculptures of the figures of Erzurum, the teachers, the students, it's a wonderful thing. Erzurum likes tea; it represents Erzurum's samovar, teacup, no sugar, lemon tea cup. Other than that, Erzurum was the ebrum, the export, the clay, the clay stone, the Oltu stone for food culture, the capacitor for food culture, so why was there, in this cultural event, the future of Erzurum, which shows the past of Erzurum, and why were you not affected by this past, and why was Erzurum Sarkamid, with Kars? Why wouldn't he be?
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0005par0022	Let's go as a commission.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0002par0023	By the way, we thank our Olympic Committee Chairman Uður Bey very much. We're waiting for their absolute support. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Wait a minute... let me wrap this up.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0006par0026	Here you go, Mr. Ilıcan.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0002par0027	I thank my dear, kind president very, very much. By the way, the most important thing in these Olympics is the athletic capacity. I'm more impressed with one thing, my valued representatives, and I'll share it: a brother, Menderes Eren, who is over 18 years old -- a shepherd, his father, a shepherd -- is currently in the world's first 20th category of ice-speed skating. In 2018, he will compete next year at the Winter Olympics in Korea. I mean, we need to increase the athletic capacity. There's talent on this side. The Croatian President's wife had arrived, and I asked her there, next to national televisions: "Can Erzurum have these Olympics?" she said, "Why not?" Many national channels have filmed coming in. Without further ado here, as in my previous speeches, I say, my esteemed deputies, come and support this Winter Olympics.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0007par0032	We'll give it to you.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0002par0033	Also, the Academy of Fine Arts at Ataturk University has a very important request, which I would like to address from here to my government: Let's build an ice museum, and this will serve longer. Let them come, let them see, it's not in many parts of the world. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In that sense, we expect your support.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0007par0036	Bravo! We're supporting, we're supporting.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0008par0037	We support our friends, our friends.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0002par0038	I want to thank you for a good future. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0009par0041	Thank you, Mr. Ilican. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Istanbul MP Gamze Akkuş Ilgezdi, who wants to speak about democracy and human rights. Here you are, Mr. Whitebird Illustration.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0010par0046	Mr. President, I've been promised the rights and freedoms of Turkey. I salute the High Council. Last week in the United States, the World Freedoms 2017 report was announced. In the last ten years, we have been competing with the Central African Republic in the category of countries where freedoms have been the highest, but the leader has not been able to pass, but we have crossed Gambia, who has fled his country, and we have settled in the second place. Unfortunately, our country, which has been part of the free country, has been awarded the country's engagement, where freedom has been the worst in the last year. In short, we were in the same category as the third world countries, such as South Sudan, Libya, and Nicaragua, and we continued to decline steadily. On the other hand, Turkish-type advanced democracy was another occasion for pride and freedom of the press and the Internet in the category of our country not free. The European Council's Human Rights Commission report released yesterday included the same statements. In Turkey, the democratic area is shrinking at an alarming rate. So I'm asking you, doesn't it bother you that there are more pressing regimes like Mali, Bahrain, Ethiopia, Yemen and Tajikistan, that the freedom report card is better off than we are? Dear MPs, the international reports that we're failing in the field of freedoms say I haven't heard it, I haven't seen it, I don't know it. As members of the Veteran Assembly, may we consider this painting, this silence worthy of our country? However, before the referendum, these reports had to be discussed very well. It seems that the referendum is now our last chance to claim freedom. Look, there have been regulations in Turkey for months under the law. Turkey's historical and social memory is being wiped out in this order, where everyone can be branded as a terrorist at any moment. Sixty thousand teachers have been dismissed so far. There is no education or system left in the national education system that has already been destroyed by the secular character. The Constitutional Court said that the State of Emergency decrees are not my domain. Thus, there remained neither neutral nor independent judgment. Because of their opposition, tens of thousands of people were removed from government service overnight without justification, condemned to hunger and misery. Turkey has become the world's largest outdoor prison for reporters. Too much noise in the press has been eliminated. More than 4,000 academics were expelled from universities. Scientific training is prohibited until further notice. The universities are at the mercy of trustees. There's no place left in the prisons. The number of prisoners and prisoners exceeded 17,000. As the country's population grew, the young population in prisons grew every day. Dear Regents, let no one expect us to accept this painting standing before us because freedom is the whole of the struggle for life, civilization and human life; it is the essence of the millions of years of human life, of inequality, of oppression, of exploitation, of discrimination, of abuse, of abuse, of rights violations and of nature; it is the basis of man's journey to re-create and re-create himself in the streets, in the factories, in the squares; it is the essence of millions of years of human life. So that's what we're breathing, freedom. See what the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk says: "The path of all progress and solutions is freedom. Where there is no freedom, there is death and destruction. Dear Regents, that's why we're warning you that if you see democracy as a ballot, freedom as a vote, you're going to lead the country to a major disaster. Without us, there is no stability. If you insist on saying, "Come, come, accept malaria." If you say, divide society. If you play with the dignity of man and then correct it, if there is injustice, we will undo it. If you simplify the sacrifices, you will receive the right of the servant. When you have the freedom to say yes to those who use the freedom to say no to others, you lose. Dear Regents, where we are today, we see the right to say no has been struck. We see that those who say no, they're a traitor, they're labeled terrorists, they're oppressed by law enforcement, they're digested by courts. However, many great men who grew up in this land never gave up the importance of justice when they urged us to be just. See, the symbol of tolerance, the Master, says that unfair power has no power. I'm going down in history so it doesn't get forgotten. We say no to those who oppose the free man with practices that do not search for the period of abuse. It's called permanent stability. We say no to those who want permanent power. We call those who want a single man's regime "No" by calling them "Strong Turkey." We say no to those who want to destroy the parliament and build the party state. We call it "no" by bringing politics into the mosque, the barracks, the courthouse, and destroying common values. We say no to our children being brought up with hatred, not love, and their future being destroyed. As I end my words, I would like to remind you that there's an expression in the common language: "No, I wish no to your neighbor." And I wish you the same wish from here, no to power. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0011par0064	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0012par0065	Thank you, Mr. Whitebird Illustration. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Aydın MP Deniz Depboylu who wants to speak about Aydın's problems. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0013par0070	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath on behalf of our National Movement Party Group to bring the problems of our province to the attention and to ensure that these problems are resolved. Before I begin my speech, I salute the holy Turkish nation and the Veteran Assembly. Sadly, the growing problems of Aydın, the centre of agriculture, tourism and historical culture, described as a city of honey flowing from its mountains and oil plains, upset us and worried us. You know, tourism is one of the most important sources of livelihood in our Enlightenment. Unfortunately, as a result of developments in 2016, the crisis in tourism has reduced the revenue of all sectors. This is causing serious crises. I'm afraid the information we've received as a result of our meeting with the head of the archipelago is worrisome. The number of ships arriving in Kuşadası is close to 900. The number of reservations in 2016 is around 500. The number of reservations in 2016 is 175. Unfortunately, the number is increasing. According to TUI figures, one of the largest agencies, the number of people traveling around the world is increasing, not diminishing. Neighbour Greece has turned our situation into an opportunity, raising tourist reservations by 40 per cent, and even Egypt has a 5% increase. Despite an increase in the number of German citizens making reservations for the agencies, Turkey has a decline of around 80-85 per cent in Turkey for German tourists. It's not different from other countries, the number is dropping. Many negative events in 2015 and 2016 have led to a serious decline in the number of tourists from countries such as Europe, Iran, Russia. This negative situation reached 70 per cent of the damage done to the tourism sector and businesses in the sector in 2016. It's no different in Didim County. In addition to our tourists, it has a negative effect on the locals who make a living this way. The decline of ships to Kuşadası port is not only a decline in tourists coming to Kuşadası, but also fewer tourists coming to Pamukkale of Deniz, Aphrodisias of Karacasu, İzmir Selçuk Efes. We, the National Movement Party Group, have submitted several parliamentary research motions to ensure the solution to the problems in tourism. Businesses operating in the tourism sector need to be assessed according to their financial size, delaying their debts, incentives and subsidies; the debt of the locals needs to be restructured. Again, domestic, foreign advertising is important, there are many options, but of course, we can take our time, and we can take the solutions in a different dimension. Again, valuable lawmakers, our Aydın has an important place in the world market, not only in the domestic market, but also in the world with products such as figs, cotton, olives, chestnuts, as well as the main agricultural products. Our local manufacturers are in great straits. The olives and olive oil that our farmers are still waiting for has not yet been given to our olive makers, who have been promised and have not been fulfilled. The support given to the fig should not only be given to the government's supporters, but to all the locals, farmers; the duty of the state is to give equal rights to our citizens, to every member of the Turkish nation, to every member of the mighty Turkish nation. The biggest problem for those living off cattle and cattle is the higher price of bait, the low price of dairy products. In particular, there must now be a solution to the theft of animals in China, and legal regulations must be reconsidered. Our farmers can't go to the bank without guarantor, all farmers are almost vouching for each other. As the farmer tries to pay off his debt, his default rates force him. The farmer's debts need to be restructured. The farmer's price of diesel is $4.70, the yachter's $2, I'd say a little conscience. As a government, you must fulfill your commitments at election time.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0014par0077	Then why are you going to the referendum? For God's sake! And he's telling me about the troubles, and then he's going to the referendum.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0013par0078	The Enlighten-Sea highway line needs to be finished quickly. At least our Mad Airport must be made available to commercial flights, which must be arranged. We need you to keep your promises to this day, and we especially ask you to do so. But, by the way, there's been a good development. In 49 counties, 141 plains are covered by large plains. Enlightenment was left out of them, and I've learned that the Plains of Aydın, Watermelon, and Davids were covered, and this is a delight. I ask you to keep all your promises, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0015par0082	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. Members of parliament, the non-responsive talks carried out under Article 59 of the Interior Charter have been terminated. Now, I'm going to take turns making promises to lawmakers who are asking for word by entering the electronic system. I'm starting the promise process. Mr. Gündüz...
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0016par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Prime Minister: No matter what the name of the system is, whether it's the presidency or the kingdom or the parliamentary system; in democratic, modern countries, it's the strengthening of the separation of men, it's the distribution of authority to men. The common structure of the developed countries is the operating of the principle of separation of men. The common structure of low-developed countries is that authority is collected in one person. Mr. Prime Minister, as Prime Minister, I can't rule with my friends, I can't rule with the Parliamentary power behind the system that Bahçeli and Erdogan brought in by compromise. How are you going to process history as the last Prime Minister of the republic? But, don't worry, it'll be better for you. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0017par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. Thousands of drivers and movers are having a hard time in our country. In addition to the price increase in diesel, when they use the price of bridges and roads, they consume their earnings in this way. The trucker's shop is having trouble making a living. Like the village of Niğde Obruk, the owners of the vehicles who earn almost all their livelihood in this way are troubled about what they're going to do in our villages. The government does not provide solutions to our problems. They used a loan to own a car, their business fell down, they're having trouble paying. They say they don't get as much profit as they do in spare parts and services, they're getting less. As their earnings are not proportional to their working hours, they are unable to provide for themselves and their family. Drivers want a discount on the mazotta and transportation crossings. People who don't have a job to do, who have a medical report, who are 65 years old, are not being driven by transport vehicles. They ask me, "Why am I being prevented from doing what I know best? " They want the government to be sensitive to their problems. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0018par0099	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0019par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Prime Minister: We have learned that 163 million dollars were spent in January alone from the covered grant you used with President Erdogan. How did you spend 163 million euros in Turkey today, where there are 3 million,750,000 unemployed, 5 million minimum wage workers and 21 million families living on minimum wage? Where did you spend it in just one month? If you maintain this spending stability, you will spend billions of dollars, quadrillion dollars, during the referendum, along with the propaganda. Do you find these expenses ethical? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0020par0104	Mr. Sibel Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0021par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. The period of AKP governments will most likely be commemorated by women's murders. In January 2002-2017, 14.293 women were killed. In 2016, the government failed to maintain the right to life of 328 female citizens, and 37 other women were killed only last January. In our weekend visit to the family of Sinem Metin....who was killed by her husband, whom she wanted to divorce....we witnessed personally that the government had not been responsible for the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. I'm calling on the Ministry of Family and Social Policy to act now in an effective fight against women's murders, which have reached a terrible extent in your power. Stop hiding statistical information about the murders and support the families of the victims who have been abandoned by your irresponsible policies. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0022par0109	Dear Kazim Arslan...
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0023par0111	Mr. President, I'm asking the Prime Minister: The changes you want to make in our Constitution are not just a change, it's a regime change, it's intended for the establishment of the presidential system. Besides, this request is entirely aimed at the President's needs. But why are you making this change on a personal basis when all the constitutional changes so far have been made in the interest of our country's needs? You're making these changes to deal with the secular republic, step by step to suspend democracy. At first, we, the President, the Prime Minister, the ministers and the MPs, all of us came here because of the republic's regime and democracy. Do you accept these attempts to make changes to deny the past morally and morally? Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0022par0113	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0024par0115	Mr. President, you know that in the last few days, the Israeli administration has been trying to ban the opposition as an oxymoron of ionist thinking by disregarding international law, fundamental human rights and freedom of faith in the sacred city, where our Prophet, the Prophet, is on the altar. History has shown that any forbidden persecution has led to great reactions in the eyes of Muslims. Therefore, I believe that every one of our oppressed Muslim brothers living in the land of Palestine will go up to their roofs, on their balconys, and will continue to read Ezanumhammediayeh, and will make every house a mosque, and every roof a minaret. The breath of any evil in the world, especially Zionism, will not be enough to extinguish the light of God, and He will perfect His light. On this occasion, his testimony strongly condemns the government of Israel, who attempted to silence the oppressor, the foundation of religion... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I believe this practice is in the hands of all the Muslims in the world.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0025par0119	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0026par0121	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I've mentioned many times before the problem of state hospitals and physicians in Balıkesir. I've also called the Ministry of Health on these matters, but at this point, we still have medical problems in our hospitals across the Balıkesir, and most of the hospitals have their own local problems. Especially in Dursunbey County -- an area where the AKP has 80 per cent of the vote -- no obstetrician at the state hospital, no ear nose, no throat doctor, no staff. I'm calling the Department of Health for Dursunbey. You get the vote and you don't do your duty. At the same time, we don't have an eye doctor in the District of Borders, and we're short-staffed again. As soon as possible, save Balıkesir (Bokesir) from this deprivation environment. I'm calling the Department of Health over and over again here, and let's keep an eye on health. Reach out to Balıkesir, and let us take care of our health. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0027par0125	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0028par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, there are unfortunately frequent power cuts in the village of Güllü, 1,900 people, in the village of Uşme district, in this village -- only in this village -- because the problem is the transformers. Because transformers are so old, the electricity in the village, unfortunately, is at an extreme stage because the distributor is not investing. In this regard, I'm calling from here to the Ministry of Energy: we demand the immediate construction of the Gullu village's power shortage to be resolved. On the other hand, unemployment data has been released as of today, reaching the summit of the last decade. So unemployment is 12.1 today. The government is not doing anything to reduce unemployment. The economy's over, the firms are going down, the tradesman's going down, the farmer, the peasant, he's a terrible victim. With all these problems, AKP's only concern was fucking the hell out of it. That's why we say no to this injustice. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0029par0131	Mr. Baki Lightning.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0030par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. The families of the arrested privates and privates now cry out for help. For about six months, the children that his parents sent to serve are imprisoned in Sarikamiş, in Silivri, in Mamak, in Mamak. We expect Mr. Secretary of Defense and the Minister of Justice to begin the procedures for the evacuation of these privates and privates immediately. Nearly 100,000 government officials have been discharged. However, the grounds for exports have not been disclosed to many. In a legal state -- 20 to 20 years serving the state -- if he's guilty of a crime, if he's being discharged for a crime, the grounds must be explained. It is said that a seven-man commission has been established regarding those who should be reinstated. In a place where there are 100,000 exports, the commission of 7 people, according to my calculations, will be able to answer these files in about eight years if he looks at every file in ten minutes. We expect that the number of these commissions will be increased and that the governorships will be authorized if necessary.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0031par0138	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0032par0140	Mr. President, Europe, especially Germany, has been rocked for three months by allegations of espionage by the Imams of the Turkish Islamic Union. I've asked Mr. Prime Minister about these allegations before with a written question motion, and Mr. Merkel, the German Prime Minister, had expressed them during his visit to the President. Now we're learning that four Turkish imams were raided the house on the grounds of espionage. I'm asking the Prime Minister, is there a statusal connection between the DITIB and the President of Religious Affairs? Is this a call from any state institution to our imams, where there should be a bridge of peace between our country and Germany, where they should be speaking about Jonah, Haci Bektas Veli, Mezlana, Anatolian humanity, and contribute to the integration of the Turks? If such a call was made, why were our imams called upon to explain and protect our religious values instead of the German authorities responsible for some activities against our state and nation in Germany?
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0031par0143	Mr. Starsniper...
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0033par0145	Mr. President, if we fail in this referendum vote used by the AKP Vice President in Soma, prepare yourself for war. Their testimony includes blackmail and threats and a public crime. Your failure in the referendum is the will of the people, and you will respect the will of the people. You can't threaten anyone. The statement shows what the AKP will follow in the referendum, and what the method will be. That's exactly why we insist on saying no. We say no to the authoritarian regime, based on intimidation and intimidation, which exerts pressure on the will of the people. You took the miner's kicker into the palace, and you're going to counsel the man who threatened the people with terror, assassination, civil war, and chaos, like the goat's son who was facing the pine? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0031par0147	Mr. Çanrý...
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0034par0149	Mr. President, our party, which left 15 years behind on its way to serving the nation, continues to add work to its work day by day. With our ministry of transport, Maritime and Communications working hard, we are happy to receive the news of the transition of projects that will radically solve the traffic problem of our ancient Mardin, the city of languages and religions. The university bridge intersection, which has been completed and served by our people, begins with groundwork, and will be soon to be built, the TOKİ state hospital, the Kızıltepe road crossing and the completion of historic Mardin-Midyat road crossings, the north and southern freeway routes, will be the end of the traffic ordeal of our countrymen. On behalf of my fellow citizens, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Transport, who have never denied their support for our ancient city with its projects.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0035par0152	Mr. Imran Sword...
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0036par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. Tencitites should be right and in their doses. A review of everything, an objection to everything, is an act of destruction. If you don't like something, you have to try to do better. From destruction comes ruins, and from doing so also from destruction. The rule in carving also applies to criticism: no cutbacks. We should not always waste our time trying to answer that. We should do business and serve. That's the best answer, otherwise we won't be able to reach our destination and we'll be out of our way. We have to say what we don't agree with before we fight. Where there's no self-criticism, there's no improvement, but let's face it, the critic who doesn't offer a solution has no right to the judgment, no one takes it. Before we criticize something, we have to suggest how to solve it. We don't have to stick the needle in someone else before we stick it in ourselves. Easy to criticize, hard to do...
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0035par0157	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0037par0159	Thank you, Mr. President. Due to the government's policies on social service, social work, which has been a science, has been unfortunately reduced to a pure philanthropy in the last 14 years. For this reason, the appointment of social workers who have been converted into a zakat service officer has been made by appointing people from different majors, regardless of merit. However, an important part of a clinical area of social service education is performed with mandatory courses consisting of various internships, with a capacity that no other major could ever replace. Right now, thousands of unemployed social workers are looking at ASDEP assignments under the Family Support Project. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy's right to act righteously and provide social workers with the rights they deserve would have solved an injustice. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0038par0162	Mr. Cakirözer...
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0039par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. The Human Rights Reporter of the Council of Europe, which we are a founding member of, announced in a report yesterday that our country has issued severe criticism of freedom of the press and has issued an alarm. When will the indictments of Republican employees and other journalists arrested for months be prepared? When will these journalists appear before the judge? Prime Minister Bakili Yıldırım, who had been using it over and over again, had to leave their homeland and settle in Turkey, has deeply hurt our relatives and former citizens, hundreds of thousands of Crimean Tatars who have given martyrs in the national struggle, in the southeast, in Çanakkale, since the day they settled in Turkey. Will the Prime Minister correct these words and apologize to the Crimean Tatars? Have a nice day.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0040par0168	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0041par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, a car accident occurred in Palas district of Sarıoglan district of Kayseri Province, Turkey. Five of our citizens were killed in this accident. I learned that among those who lost their lives five years ago, there was also our little baby Asia Skyturk, who opened her eyes to the world in my hands. This has increased my grief a whole lot. I offer God's mercy to our lost citizens, an urgent healing to the wounded, and my condolences to our people. Yesterday, a painful family there called the AKP every semester, we're members of the nation, so they take our vote and go. Today, our most painful day, there are no AKP officials; there are seven MPs, one of them is not here. He cried out, "We are no longer men of the nation." He said, "They will not be able to deceive us. Have a good day. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0042par0175	Thank you, Mr. Arik. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who are demanding a word. The first word is for Mr. Master. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0043par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. Ninety-two years ago today, the Turkish Thai Society was formed to support civil and military aviation. Current name: Turkish Air Agency. I'm celebrating the anniversary of the foundation. At the same time, the spiritual conqueror of Istanbul, Akshemseddin, is also the 558th anniversary of His Majesty's death; and may his soul rest in peace. I wish his knowledge, his spirituality, his light, his light were always above our country. It is also the anniversary of the departure of the actor Gazanfer Özcan, and of the role of the state artist, the father of the family, and God's mercy to him. Mr. President, we often bring it up in our conversations. One of the most important problems in our country is that education and employment planning is not in our country, unfortunately. In fact, with the newly established universities, this plan that wasn't already there was completely screwed up. Here we talk from time to time, we have a teacher who can't get 450,000. We say -- these people are waiting for work, they can't do any other work -- or from certain departments, there's explanations from institutions that there won't be any appointments soon, but there are students there. Today, we were visited by non-sanitary assistants in our group. There's about 400,000 people like that. I mean, we somehow graduated these kids either from the university of applied sciences or from the high school level as health professionals, but there's no way we're going to give them a job. The failure of the economy, the lack of systems, that's the problem, that's what the government has to do. Why? Because somewhere -- there are 36 majors here -- one of these majors should be working, but people are being employed under the name "Sertifika" for example, but they can't find a job with a degree in that department. There is also a victimage due to such problems with management.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0044par0187	I'll give you an extension, Master. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0043par0189	Subcontractorization is their big problem. I don't want to waste any more time here. Today, our Health Commission member Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Hodja will make a detailed statement. Another thing I brought up yesterday -- we had men who died that night or the next morning during this treacherous coup attempt on July 15th. I'm not bringing this up as a political issue. Look, if you count these, they're all 50 or 100 people, not for political or political reasons, but if even one of our people is being victimized... now, the families are looking for us, our child's name is the traitor. Turns out they weren't traitors, they weren't shooting. For example, one of them called yesterday, and the mother of PFC Noah Empin. His two eyes are two fountains, and his father hasn't been able to go out for seven months. There are 11 bullets in the palm of his hand, so he raised his hand, understood what was going on, but there are 11 bullets in the palm of his hand, which the government treats as traitors.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0044par0192	Here, let me take your last words.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0043par0193	Again, Burak Religions of Sivas. Ballistics came through, no gunshots were fired from his gun. Again, Osman Küçük of Maraş... Look, our government needs to do something about their extradition right now. Families are miserable, you've got to see that. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0045par0197	Thank you, Mr. Master. Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0046par0200	Thank you, Mr. President. As pleased as we were to receive the news of the release of our Şırnak MP, Ferhat Encu, yesterday, it is against the law that our Group Vice President, Çağlar Demirel, has been decided to continue his detention. All of our deputies are actually in the same legal situation, and we would like each of them to evacuate as soon as possible and return to this House. Mr. Idris Baluken, our former vice president, has had a serious operation today after he was released from prison, and he's in good health. We wish him all the best and all the best that he can come to us as soon as possible. Mr. President, a person named Ozan Erdem, an AK PARTI Vice-President of Manisa, spoke very dangerous words in an event organised by the AKP's Soma County youth arm, or youth. If we fail to pass 50 per cent and fail this referendum vote, be prepared for civil war. If anyone really wants to drag this country into civil war, let them know that none of us will ever see this country the way it was before. He has to look back at the words that everyone makes, the seeds that he sows in a society. In particular, young people are referred to as madmen; there is no man or woman. To use their faith, their excitement, their political influence, especially to motivate them into death, war, hostility, civil war, is a major crime. Another important issue: statements from the President and the Chief of Staff.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0047par0206	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Kerestecioglu. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0046par0208	Thank you. Chief of General Staff, El Bab is finished, and we've got a good eye. When President Erdogan says he'll have good results soon, Al Bab says it's about to be taken care of. It has been 177 days since this operation began, and nearly 70 Turkish citizens have lost their lives. I'll leave what's good and what's good and what's good and what's good and what's good and what's good for these young people, to the public's review. Finally, I'd like to talk about an event that has increased our faith in goodness. His photo is also here, a dog who was rescued after 13 days of being in the well, and who has worked hard to save him, and we are actually giving our endless thanks to everyone, especially them, and to HayKonfed.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0048par0212	Complete, please. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0046par0213	Okay. I can't help but remember the verses of the great poet Hasan Hussein, who we need for good, peace especially these days, and I want to end my words with him: We slept together on the roof, It's not the sheep. It's the mountains. You think we let ourselves down. When we looked down on the ant, And the sparrow's wing, when We have broken it, Did We kill the baby of the deer, How can we kill a man? Yeah, let's not kill people or animals. The right of life is precious to everyone. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0049par0225	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. I learned from your speech that Mr. Idris Baluken, the MP of Diyarbakır, was having surgery. I wish him well, I wish him health. I wish he'd be with us as soon as possible.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0046par0229	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0049par0230	Mr. Kerestecioğlu, who stated that after being in a drilling well in Beskoz for thirteen days, the rescue of his lovely kangaroo dog, who had been rescued from the well because of the intense efforts of fire crews, and had been trapped in the well, had been brought back to life. At a time when we were in need of love, especially when we were called animals, I was very happy that we were united by the concept of love, which, unfortunately, was sometimes used in a different language of speech, which was really an example of love, a symbol of love, because this little being came back into our midst. Thank you very much for saving him from the Beykoz Fire Department. On this occasion, I offer my love once again. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now it's time for Mr. Sky. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0050par0237	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to express to you that we wish him immediate healing for the operation of Mr. Idris Baluken, Vice President of the HDP Group. As it was said, the return of the Well dog, the resurrection of life, raised a smile for all of us in Turkey, a joy. It seems our sensitivity to animal rights and to every living creature will now be a symbol of the well dog. Mr. President, the people who founded the republic ninety-two years ago are in the high heavens, with a very advanced view. They have established the institution called the Turkish Thai Thai Society, and then the Turkish Air Organization, to support civil and military aviation in Turkey. I want to wish them the best of luck in the future, stressing how big a vision the Turkish Air Agency was founded 902 years ago. Mr. President, the words of the vice president in Manisa are not ordinary words. Although it has been announced that the AKP Headquarters has asked for its resignation, it is undisputed that the vice president of the province, who has taken power from somewhere and has made these promises with the power that he has given himself. This has its consolidators, so when we go to the referendum process in Turkey, where are we going to fit in the way that the president, for example, is said more than the vice president of the province who said those words than the president, who categorized the prime minister's use in Turkey, at the referendum, by polarizing, polarizing, and conducting a perception operation on them? Look where this is coming from. They can't keep things that way. There's a clear attitude...
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0051par0243	I'm turning on your microphone, Mr. Sky, please complete.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0050par0244	In this regard, it is imperative that those who rule the country take a clear stand. Turkey must be kept far away from polarizing languages, and if they continue in these languages, no one can account for how to prevent these ideas, which have appeared today in the Manisa vice-president's mental world, which we don't yet know about, and everyone must be careful and avoid polarizing Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0051par0246	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0052par0249	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. I'd like to point out that the group's deputy presidents have just stated that we have not found the testimony of a member of Manisa, which is reflected in the press, and we have clearly rejected it. Our headquarters has taken the necessary steps, the person has been asked to resign and has been suspended. Therefore, this issue is no longer on the agenda for us. If the presidency passes, blood will be shed. The more dangerous the language, the more dangerous it is, the more dangerous the speech in Manisa, which was reflected in the press yesterday, the more dangerous and wrong it is. I invite everyone to be responsible again, to make the right statements. In peace and security, it is our duty to reflect our nation's will on the chest. Thank you again.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0053par0253	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0054par0254	Mr. President, I want a promise.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0053par0255	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0054par0257	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, wish my condolences to Mr. Idris Baluken, Vice President of the HDP Group, and wish him well. I expect him to join us as soon as he's healthy. Now, Mr. Turan and our friends, the vice president of the other group, have also expressed that it is not really possible to accept the unfortunate words of the vice-president of the Justice and Development Party of our province. The joy of that is that this person has been relieved of his post. In this referendum process, all politicians, speakers, speakers and publicists have a great responsibility. What we need to pay attention to here is the obligation to use a language that will keep society from camping and tensions. In that respect, I wish that these unfortunate words and the matter would be a warning from now on, and I advise all political parties to pay very close attention to the way they behave. It means that we, as the National Movement Party, will take the proper care of it, thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0055par0261	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation. I'll have the motions read separately. The motion will be read in a summary of the motion, since the motion for parliament research is more than 500 words in the first place, but will be included in the full text of the motion in the journal. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our country's problems, such as terrorism, security, economic instability, political uncertainty, foreign policy issues, not getting along with its neighbours and the lack of social peace, also have a very negative impact on the tourism sector. According to current data, there is an average loss of a reservation of 38 per cent, which could increase further. In this case, Turkey's loss in the tourism sector alone will be at least $10 billion, which means the country's tourism collapse. According to a statement by the Association of Businesses and Investors (TUROB), Turkey's hotel capacity fell by 12.4 per cent to 65.3 per cent in September 2015, compared to the same period in 2014. The number of visitors from Russia, our country's second largest tourist destination, dropped to 4,482,388 people in 2014, while 3,652,430 in 2015. Before the effects of the crisis with Russia became clearer, the number of tourists from Russia in 2015 declined by 18.5 per cent. We would like to ask that the Constitution's 98th and TBM Inclusion of the Constitution be opened by reviewing the effects of the political and economic crisis in our country's tourism sector, investigating the decline and loss of revenues in the tourism sector, and by the failure of the sector and resolving negative effects and reviving the tourism sector's share of the world's tourism cake and producing the policies needed to increase and increase. With all due respect. [[Tripoli]] [[Slap]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Burdur]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Samsun]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] 11) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[40s.]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] 22) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[Ankara]] [[Edirne]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mughle]] [[Kayseri]] Turkey, a country with a wide range of natural, historical and cultural entities, has a very important potential for all kinds of tourism. The tourism sector, affected by political and economic crises, has recently been the most affected sector of political developments. Given the value of the world's tourism potential, the Turkish tourism sector, which has come to a point today, is expected to grow even further, but its crisis may have no future impact on measures and supports that have not been taken in place or in time, as well as will the other sectors. Turkey's tourism revenues have increased over the years, but there is no increase in average spending and average overnighting per person. Moreover, average spending per person shows a trend of ups and downs. According to the Outgoing Visitors Survey, Turkey's tourism revenue was 34 billion 305m 904,000 dollars, while the number of visitors was 41,415,70 people, average spending 828 dollars per person, average number of nights is 10°. As of 2015, Turkey's tourism revenue was 31 billion, 464 million, 777,000, while the number of visitors was 41,617,350, and the average spending per person was reduced to $756. Turkey's tourism revenue was reduced by 8.3 per cent in 2015, compared to 2014. The number of foreigners leaving our country was 36 million, 507, 184 in 2014, while 35,903,327 in 2015. The number of visitors from Russia, the 2nd country where most tourists came to our country, dropped to 4,482,388 in 2014, and 3 million 652,430 in 2015. Before the effects of the crisis with Russia became clearer, the number of tourists from Russia dropped 18.5 per cent in 2015. Our country's problems, such as terrorism, security, economic instability, political uncertainty, foreign policy issues, not getting along with its neighbours and the lack of social peace, have a very negative impact on the tourism sector. According to current data, there is an average loss of a reservation of 38 per cent, which is concerned that the number could increase further. In this case, Turkey's loss in tourism alone will be at least $10 billion, which means the country's tourism collapse. According to a statement from the Association of Businesses and Investments (TUROB), Turkey's hotel capacity in September 2015 was reduced to 65.3%, compared to the same period in 2014. Tourism collapsed suddenly as the political crisis in 1999 did not have new sales, as the old sales were cancelled. The coalition government at the time took very serious measures to help Turkish tourism emerge from its major crisis. Fuel support for airplanes at the time; cheap and long-term credit support for tourism companies in proportion to their active size (with no pay for two years); heavy Turkish advertising in many countries and visual media abroad; 25 dollars per person for every tourist brought to Turkey; a tour operator, airline, agency, hotel; and the opportunity to provide tourism companies with the opportunity to guarantee and restructure their debt without interest. Although our country today has entered the largest economic crisis in the history of the tourism sector, the government's only support is fuel support for aircraft. It is easily understood from the results that proved to be inadequate. A parliamentary survey is needed to examine the effects of the political and economic crisis in our country's tourism sector, to investigate the decline and loss of revenues in the tourism sector, to address the negative effects of the sector, to improve the tourism sector's share in the world's tourism cake, and to produce the policies needed to increase and not decrease. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the problems of public transport in Ankara's province and to provide effective and continuous proposals for solutions to the problems in the situation, we respectfully offer and offer the necessary provision for the opening of parliamentary research under the 98th, 104th and 105th Articles of the Constitution. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] 6) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Mersin]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] [[Samsun]] [[Mughle]] 14) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] 15) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Edirne]] [[Scholarship]] 21) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Kayseri]] [[Çanakkale]] Citizens in Ankara, the capital of the Republic, are at 22 p.m. After 00, there's no means of public transportation. Due to the removal of local services from universities, students have to travel to and from school in four vehicles. These antiquated practices in public transport do not suit Ankara, the republic's capital. In major cities such as Ankara, transportation is supposed to be 24 hours, while subway flights are 22. Ends at 00. 22. For the train that ended at 00, an impossible night in the ring was asked to be tried, as a result of which the night flights were removed due to lack of passengers. Subway flights and bus flights in Ankara end before midnight. Many citizens who want to travel across the city have to visit the Red Sea. Citizens are forced to travel in more than one vehicle. The subway's signalification study began on May 12, 2014 and should have been completed within a year, while it is still incomplete and is also flooded by the rain and snow on the subway, which operates on the Grove-Grey Road, which is also known as the highway subway. The infrastructure of these subway stops is not done enough, and the safety of citizens is at stake. As early in the journeys of rail transports, the number of expeditions is inadequate. In particular, people are unable to use these vehicles effectively during the hours of their commute and return from work. The number of expeditions must be increased. NGOs and EGO powers must regroup and set a transport map for Ankara. The road map to which NGOs and EGO officials will explain must be restructured. The railway transports and buses must be added to the night flights and the Ankarans' transportation ordeal must end. The Redbeard must be removed from the common route of all vehicles and the Kızılay traffic must be relieved. It is imperative that parliamentary research be opened in Ankara for effective and continuous proposals for solutions to problems in public transport and problems being investigated. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer the need to open Parliament research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution to investigate the problems of tourism operators and their employees in order to bring about increased terrorist attacks in Turkey, events in the East and Southeast regions and the economic losses caused by the Russian aircraft crisis in the tourism sector, and to investigate the further deepening of the crisis. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Denizli]] [[Samsun]] 8) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] 9) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[Mughle]] [[Scholarship]] [[Slap]] 17) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Hatay]] 20) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Kayseri]] The tourism sector has suffered a major crisis since the fall of Russian aircraft on 24 November 2015, due to the recession, the decline of tourists and the security threat of increasing terrorist incidents. Due to security in Europe, the increase in cancellations of reservations, closing of the Russian market has brought the tourist to the brink of bankruptcy. Especially in Antalya, hotels have been closed for four months and have been selling the facilities of tourists with a large debt to banks. 1,300 hotels have been sold on the Aegean and Mediterranean coasts due to a growing crisis in the tourism sector. The total amount required for these hotels is said to be $30 billion. The tourism sector has been having a difficult time because of events in the Southeast and Eastern Anatolian regions and tensions surrounding the entire country, while the plane crisis with Russia has made tourism business in Turkey unsustainable. Fuel support for 12 countries presented as "B plan" by the government, the strategy for opening the Middle East market, has been insufficient in the face of the sector's severe crisis. In 2016, tourists' number and tourism revenues are expected to shrink by 35 per cent. This narrowing down in tourism means closing down businesses and unemployment. The AKP government must first consider policy to support the financial structures and employment of businesses that could be saved in the heavily hit tourism sector. Tourism businesses are difficult to deal with by lowering prices, by doing advertising and market research, by their own means. The sale of 1,300 hotels on the Aegean and Mediterranean coast in the early months of 2016 demonstrates the seriousness of the situation. The closure of tourism businesses will bring with it a serious unemployment rate and employment problem. The government's strategy for supporting tourism is to expand the market and increase the number of tourists. However, the decline of the profitability rates of tourism businesses is far from being rectified by the increased financial balance of input costs and debt rates, expanding the market and increasing the number of tourists. In order to support the financial structures of tourism businesses, legal regulations for the construction of tax, SGK and bank loans, incentives for reducing input costs and support are required. A strategy to create an effective domestic market using public resources should be considered instead of waiting for the tourism market to spontaneously resuscitate in terms of the market economy. The use of public resources may be possible if public institutions are organised according to the needs of the tourism sector, seminars, education, congressional planning. Adding additional incentives for tourism to public personnel may also be beneficial. The government's fuel support for 12 countries and the opening strategy for new markets should be supported by creating the perception that tourism zones are safe abroad in Turkey. In this context, additional security measures must be taken. It is necessary to open Parliamental research to investigate the growing terrorist attacks in Turkey, the events in the East and the Southeast region and the negative effects of the plane crisis with Russia, the tourism sector, the economy and employment, to bring effective and continuous solutions to the problems of tourism managers and their employees. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Thursday 16/2/2017 (today), I respectfully submit that the following proposal of our group should be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. On 18 January 2017, Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul and his friends (33642 rows) suggested that the parliamentary research motion given to the Turkish Parliament to investigate and block the causes of the deaths of workers was taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the presentations Thursday (16/2/2017) at the same date. The first speaker of the People's Democratic Party group's proposal is Garo Paylan, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0056par0464	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Unfortunately, in my hometown, it's the days when death becomes ordinary, natural. However, in democratic countries, each death is a disaster, and death is so rare that when one death happens, one death is the agenda of that country for weeks and weeks, and every precaution is spoken for so that death will never happen again. But in my hometown, unfortunately, the fact that there are deaths again, ordinary and killings is being made to look like ordinary, natural events. It's in the fountain. It's called fate, it's called destiny, it's called destiny, I'm afraid. However, as in every aspect of life, the political institution exists to stop these deaths and take the necessary measures to ensure that the deaths never happen again, such as in the field of labor, as in working life. Friends: Unfortunately, we are facing 18604 jobs in 17 years -- this is a 17-year report card of AKP power -- unfortunately a very bitter report card -- in 17 years. In 2016, more than the previous years, and unfortunately, the AKP's government reached its highest number of jobs killings, we face 1,970 murders. It has distributions according to the sectors, and the deaths continue to repeat themselves over and over again. And as a political institution, we do not take effective measures, and even the practices in the legislation are effectively activated, and there are no necessary inspections and regulations for this. Dear friends, labor is sacred, the rights of labor are sacred, and workers are forced to work with their lives and under much more difficult conditions. Look, with these numbers, dear friends, we are number one in Europe, number three in the world. These things happen all the time, they're in his mind. He said, Mr. President. But look, compared to Germany alone, the illegal domestic product is a country that produces three times as much as us, three times more than we do, whereas in business killings, in business accidents, we have one tenth of a tenth of a man's life, as many as one fifth of us, and in every job loss, the necessary measures are taken and the job killings are reduced every year, while in my country, they continue to increase. Dear friends, look, we have families of workers looking for justice, they've made initiatives, and every first Sunday of the month, they go up to Galatasaray Square and try to make their voices heard, unfortunately, not enough from here. Today I hope we can show that we can hear their voices to the families of workers seeking justice. Likewise, a Association of Hope publishes an almanac every year. I've studied this almanac and I'm ashamed as a congressman. Look, I'll show you from the side, look at the thickness, the almanac of 2016 is just this; we're dealing with an almanac of this thickness about business killings. Dear friends, look at the photos of our workers, look at their faces, look at how they died, how they were killed, all repeated murders. If measures were taken on each of them, if the necessary work safety measures were taken, many would be alive today, whereas your government, unfortunately, has not taken the necessary measures to do so, the murders continue, and these thick almanacs continue to be published. I'm celebrating a Hope Society's efforts in this sense, and I'd like to say that we're with the families of workers looking for justice. So, why the increase, fellas? Look, we're in a middle-income country, we're in a middle-income trap, and unemployment figures have been announced, you know. The unemployment figures rose to 12.1 per cent in November. So, what's our young unemployment? Twenty-three percent. So from 17 percent to 23 per cent in a year, unemployment numbers rose from 9 per cent to 12.1 per cent. In climates like this, capital grunts. Look, I'm a member of the Plan and Budget Commission. Aman says there's a huge crisis of capital, how do we support this capital, how do we compromise more? Let's not take taxes, let's offer funds, let's give loans. We're talking about all the laws, all the measures. On the other hand, we do not discuss a single clause in the rights of labor, friends, and on average in the Republic of Turkey, five or six people face work murders every day. Okay, guys, why is this happening? Like I said, in middle-income countries, labor is always riding on its back. It's labor exploitation that's the main thing. I have cheap labor here. It's called capital, I have cheap labor. I don't have a additive product, I can't produce it. My universities aren't free, I can't develop creativity. What have I got? He's got cheap labor. So, is there a union? It's the right thing to do. The union is just the yellow union, the unions with the government. Besides, of course, there are a lot of revolutionary unions like the 50-year DİSK that are struggling, they're fighting, but the government is doing everything it can to regress those unions, to raise the yellow unions. No union. I won't take the tax from you, come and invest. Is it business security? No. Business safety is part of the legislation, but we don't oversee it, and there are no measures involved. What if the worker dies? Don't worry, you'll save it with small fines. It's called capital. And as long as that happens, unfortunately, the murders continue, my friends. When the economy goes bad, the employer makes it difficult for the worker to work. I'm a man of business, and I know that, and especially the worker is always told: "Look, millions of workers are waiting at the door, so don't expect more from me. A raise? Don't say a word. Live with it, be thankful for it. Business security? Never! They are because it is cost and in this frame, all of them, unfortunately, friends, turn into murders. Business security is the first place to make concessions, friends, in crises. We're in an economic crisis, that's the first thing that's been compromised. Look, even in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- you know, there's repairs -- I've seen the workers work so many times, they're being taken to the pier -- they're the workers -- and I've seen that the worker doesn't have a seat belt. He's up there on the pier, and there's no helmet. I said, get down from there. He's down. I said, what are you? Brother, I'm a subcontractor, I do what they give me to do here. Why don't you wear the helmet, the belt? They forced me out, I have a fear of heights, brother. You're taking someone who's never been on a pier, a person who's not in charge of that job, out in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, out on the dock with no helmets, no seatbelts, and when he falls, we'll say he's in the barrel. If that's what's happening in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, friends, unfortunately, it's everywhere. In the same way, in times of crisis, the controls are weak because the employer is dying out of his nose, the investor is dying out of his nose, and let's not touch it. It is said, "Because our inspectors have been beaten, beaten." There are rumors, inspectors are pulled back and killed where there is no effective control and where there is no punishment, unfortunately, they continue, friends. In this context, in the context of business safety, friends, if this motion of ours is accepted, let's talk about these crisis conditions in a commission, and at this point, let's talk about what measures we can take in terms of the exploitation of labor and the failure to continue the work killings. Yesterday, in the Plan and Budget Commission, we asked Mr. Finance Minister: "Look, you've issued hundreds of laws, you've passed verdicts on a lot of laws -- I'm saying in terms of materials -- 285 articles related to the economy, and many of them used to benefit capital. Come, give me a briefing on these. For example, one of the attacks on the worker's field is unemployment insurance, friends. You know, for years, $11 billion has been collected on unemployment insurance, only 12 billion of it has been paid to workers, unemployed workers. The rest of the 100 billion euros have been spent in unrelated places. Look, the ordinance says -- it's so interesting -- it says to the capital, to the employer: you hire the worker, and I'll give part of your salary out of unemployment insurance. Didn't we raise that source for the unemployed, for the workers, for the workers? What is it about you and your right to pay the laborer for the laborer's money and the laborer for the laborer's work? You don't have that right, and you don't have that line. In that sense, we expect you, friends, to support this research proposal to discuss all of this. Let's discuss the details of this in the commission, and I say we take the necessary legal measures together. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0057par0483	Thank you, Mr. Paylan. On the advice of the People's Democratic Party Group, against Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, Deputy Heromarash. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0058par0487	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party regarding the group's proposal for the causes of the deaths of workers. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. Precious lawmakers are the ones who, according to the legislation, pass by without doing their actual job as an employer for which the employee's insurance is in the workplace, due to his being sent away from work to another place of work, while the job is in place of work, are also the ones who, regardless of whether or not the breast-feeding woman is subject to the work legislation of the child during the time specified in these legislation, are also the ones who are allowed to give milk to her child during the time of the arrival of an employer's vehicle, during the arrival of a work-related vehicle, during which is considered out-of-work and later in one of the areas of the insurance, which is considered out-of-the-body or spiritually-responsessible. The accident results in partial and full-month financial and spiritual consequences, depending on whether the person who is insured for work is physically or spiritually excused, left behind in the case of death or permanent unemployment, as well as in the condition of death or permanent incapacity. In particular, in the event of death or injury, the spouse and children are suffering greatly. According to the 2010 statistics on business accidents and occupational illness published by the Social Security Agency, a total of 62,903 workplace accidents occurred in 2010. As far as the subject is concerned, 553 occupational diseases have also been identified from the workplace. 1,454 of them resulted in death. According to data, when activities groups were ranked in some, the most work accidents occurred in 2010 in the process of extracting coal and lignite by 8.150 accidents. The production of factory metal products, except for 6.918 machines and equipment, followed by the main metal industry, 4.621 by accident. According to the standardized business accident rate, the number of business accidents and the number of jobs in the sector have been assessed, the most common accident occurred during the coal and lignite extraction operation. Istanbul, İzmir and Bursa rank the first three places in the cities in which most of the accidents occurred. There have been around 8,000 work accidents in Istanbul, nearly 7.900 in İzmir, and about 7,500 in Bursa. The most important reasons for business accidents are the compressions of one or more objects, the crushing, sinking, or cutting, the impacting of falling objects, the falling of individuals, the accidents caused by machines. For these reasons, accidents constitute 82 percent of total accidents. The number of labor forces lost in 2010 as a result of business accidents and occupational illness is estimated at 1,516,24 on the day. He spent 50,000 days in the hospital. According to data, the most work accidents have been seen in the 25-29-year-old group according to age groups. The 25-29-year-old group is the most efficient, youngest age group. According to the number of insured employees in the workplace, it has been seen in businesses that employ more than 1-3 workers. According to the employee's last employer's working period, it was found between three months and a year in seniority. Business accidents have been reported at most between 3:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. The period of interim incapacity as a result of business accidents is 24 days per person. It is calculated as twenty-four days in men and eighteen in women. Dear lawmakers, as it turns out, there have been 1,454 cases of death in 2010, but the result is that thousands remain unique, childless, without a father, without a mother. A total total of 1 million,55,000 days of workforce loss from standing is 47,316. These are serious numbers. While their production value has not been determined, the loss of labor force has also resulted in serious losses in production. The cause of death by accident is monthly for those who remain behind. The constant incapacity rate is limited to more than 10 per cent per month. Given the fact that thousands of people are getting partial-incapacity revenues, I couldn't bring them here because of the lack of time, which are financially significant figures -- for the Social Security Agency, which receives trillions of dollars each month from the treasury, these kinds of costs will reach significant sums. Of course, any business accident to avoid is of great importance to the family in the first place. It also leads to serious social problems, as well as consequences. However, financially and in terms of the SGK, significant amounts of expenditure have been prevented, and the funds from the treasure will be reduced. Another issue: According to the level of employment accidents in 2013, 2.8 per cent of the six-year-olds employed in the past 12 months are in a business accident, while in general high school graduates are estimated to be 2.7%, and in upper secondary school graduates. The reason why there are 2.4% of high school co-eds is because of vocational and technical education. As the level of education increases, accidents and accidents are reduced. It shows that education is the only thing that needs to be done. According to the situation at work, the highest percentage of people who have been in a business accident has been in employees who work for their account at 2.6%, while employees who are paid or paid by 2.5 per cent have been observed as employers at 1.6%. Working as a free family worker, the rate of occupational accidents is estimated to be 1.4. As part of the professional group, the proportion of people who were involved in business accidents was 4.8 per cent -- average 2.3 per cent -- over 4.8 per cent. The lowest-rated group of business accidents is the office and customer service sector with an 8/000th of a thousandth. Precious lawmakers, according to 2004-2014 data, there are an average of 270 million work accidents worldwide. According to International Labour Organization data, an average of 5,000 workers die each day and 2 million workers per year or 160 million workers suffer from professional illness. In Turkey, however, the number of people who were insured died in 2014 was 1,626. Precious MPs, it is important to say that in Europe Turkey is ranked 1st in business accidents, we are in a pitiful position. By 2014, despite all legal measures taken, business accidents have not been reduced, on the contrary, the situation is not different in 2016, which I'm about to give you. All of this leads to very serious sacrifices and expenses. One of the concepts used in assessments of a work accident is that the rate of occupational accident is the number of work accidents that occur every 1 million working hours. According to NGO statistics, 1.32, of every 100 people working in 2013 were in a business accident, while in 2014, this occurred as 1.47 out of every 100 people, year by year. Dear MPs, the latest insured statistics of the SGK have been released on November 2016. As of November 2016, the cumulative number was 69,630, while 65,361 people were permanently unemployed in 2015, and the increase in 11 months compared to the previous year was 5.26. There are serious statistics on the issue, but I'd like to finally say that in 2005, when 73,428 was the total recipient of non-employable death revenues, about 20,000 people increased in 2016, they found 94,95 grand. In preventing business accidents, unfortunately, Turkey has failed, deaths have increased, injuries have increased, serious economic and spiritual losses have occurred. And the only way to prevent that is to say education, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0059par0504	Thank you, Mr. Tor. Yakup Akkaya, İstanbul MP in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Akkaya.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0060par0508	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I salute our MPs. In this Parliament, we've been discussing a new proposal in the past 15 years about the reasons for the deaths of workers who have come to this parliament to investigate, perhaps dozens of times, and to resolve this problem. I wish those who were brought before this had been supported in this parliament and we would have made an effort here to investigate the reasons for these work killings, which have become a country with criminal record in the world, which is a bleeding wound to Turkey. The number of workers killed in business killings from the AKP's ruling era to today is 18,643 valuable friends. These people lost their lives in the work killings. Why do we call it a job murder? Because according to research, if the measure had been taken, about 95 percent of the accidents would have been prevented, and many work murders would have been prevented, unfortunately not. It's easy to say that more than 18,000 workers, more than the population of the Finnish District of Rize, have been killed by more workers than the population of my Army Mesudiye district, worse than terrorism. When we look from 2002 to today, we don't have so many people lost in terrorism, but we don't care, here we are in the third place in the world, the first place in Europe. So, after all we've talked about this, what do we do? We're making a law. Yes, are there any flaws in the laws we've passed? Maybe so, but there are laws that we've made in advanced arrangements. So, we're breaking this law, but are we upholding the law? Unfortunately, we can't. In 2012, Law 6331 was issued to prevent this, the Law on Health and Safety. So, what did this law say? Business safety risk assessments, primarily public buildings, would be taken, and measures would be taken accordingly. Dear friends, this law, which took place in 2012, has not been enforced for five years. Why? And if we can't do that in public buildings, how can we expect private sector? If we can't carry out these audits in public buildings, how can we expect these legal regulations to come to life healthy? So, who's got the negligence here? The negligence here, of course, is in those who claim to run this country, because controlling and implementing the laws that have been passed is one of the main tasks of the government that has passed these laws. Again, look, there has been a significant change in Article 8 of the Law on Occupational Health and Safety 6331, and we have had objections. What was that? That was the certification process of auditing employees who were going to conduct inspections at work. We had separated them from the "A" and "B" and "C" and, according to the risks of occupational safety, we had divided them into dangerous classes, and this job would be trained, certified and inspected by health and safety personnel. So, what did we do? By the end of 2016, this would have been finished. About 1,950,000 businesses in Turkey -- close to 450,500,000 -- would be in the dangerous and very dangerous class of businesses and occupational safety experts who would receive this certificate -- would go out and inspect these workplaces. What happened? In January, we immediately drafted a law and postponed it to 2019. Obviously, despite all the pain, the measures remain on paper. When it comes to practice, there are many excuses, but when it comes to the employer's demands, there are no excuses, and there is more support for the employer than for the worker's money. Of course, employers who produce should be supported, and we have no objection to that, but it shouldn't be made out of the sweat of a worker. Look, unemployment data's been released. With the number of unemployment that exceeds 12 percent, I leave home this morning and go to work. We live in a time when it becomes a luxury, but the unemployed are not getting enough out of the unemployment fund. So, who's taking advantage? Here, employers. Gene was transferred from the $13 billion unemployment fund to employers overnight with a state of emergency. So, dear friends, what does your extraordinary state have to do with the unemployment fund? So, why don't you tell that to the workers who can't benefit from the unemployment fund. So far, $103 billion has been collected at the unemployment fund, but from 2002 to today... I remember once again by mercy... that a lot of the dead Bkent Ecevit, our 3th President and one of the biggest services he's ever done to the Turkish working class, was to remove the unemployment fund, and what he brought back was an arrangement for the unemployment fund to pay only to the unemployed, but unfortunately, with the provisions brought by AKP power in 2002, it was used for a lot more money than that had been paid to the workers. In the end, 13 billion dollars was transferred from the unemployment fund to the employers, so it was released on February 9th by the decree of the law. Now, when unemployment is so busy, shouldn't the worker's money be paid according to the conditions of the day for all unemployed? So, because you employers asked for it, yesterday you gave a five percent tax reduction in the Plan and Budget Commission. Dear MPs, there were workers' representatives, and those workers' representatives demanded that those 5 per cent of the tax reduction be cut off from their labour payrolls and workers, but Finance Minister Naci Agbal said: "There are budget restrictions, we can't do that." I mean, when it comes to the employer here, everything is normal, go to the employer. But you ignore the worker when the worker asks for it. I'm asking you, for God's sake, let the AKP officials come out here and say, "Ya, you're being unfair, we've made these legal arrangements for workers and officers from 2002 to today, and they've taken advantage of it." You can't give an example here. Both subcontractorisation and unemployment benefit fund and the individual pension system continue to grow a sense of appreciation for a penny in the pocket of an unemployed person. Look, yesterday, Mr. Labour Minister said about the subcontractor that had been on the agenda for many years: wait one more year, we'll be able to solve our subcontractor system this year. Look, not much, but in January, I gave a speech in this House, about the subcontractor, and if I may read from the transcripts, I say: Mr. President, 3 March 2014, the Minister of Labor for the period, Mr. Faruk Çelik, says that the draft of the staff of the Tasherona law is in the Prime Minister's office. The date is 6/10/2015, about Mr. Faruk Çelik subcontractor before the November 1st elections, and the problem will be over if we rule on November 1st. The date is November 12, 2015, Mr. Faruk Çelik says the staff of Tabherona will be clear in six months. The date is 30 January 2016, when Minister of Finance Naci Ağbal says that we will have transferred the arrangement for Tabheron to Parliament before March 21st. Yesterday, the Minister of Labour says that we will appoint a subcontractor. When does he explain? Before the April 16th referendum, again, he's making the subcontractors a bond. It's not moral. So, you've been in power for 14 years, and when you come to power, the number of subcontractors, 35 to 40,000, is now over a million today, and you promise before every election, and you don't keep your word. I leave this to the appreciation of our fellow workers who listen to us. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, our fellow citizens who have listened to us, now, as of January 1st, the mandatory individual pension system is in effect. So, the worker and officer under 45 will be forced to pay for the funds in the individual pension system starting January 1st. There would be regulations for the implementation of this, and in December, the regulations came out. With this regulation, the exception has been made. Do you know who our valued deputies are, our fellow citizens? Here, lawmakers under the age of 45 under the age of 45 have been given exceptions, not to be cut off from lawmakers under 45 for mandatory individual pension funds. It's not legal and it's not moral. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As I said at first, from 2002 to today, the AKP's government has given the worker nothing. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I would like to say once again that we support HDP's motion to investigate as Republican People's Party. [[Applause from HDP rows]] My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0061par0526	Thank you, Mr. Akkaya. The People's Democratic Party Group proposed against Mahmoud Kozar, Şanlıurfa MP. Here you go, Mr. Runar.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0062par0530	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the HDP Group's proposal for research on occupational health and safety. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers include a large area of work, working conditions, social security, vocational education, occupational health and safety, and a large part of society, from the protection of the rights of our citizens working abroad. The issue of occupational health and safety is not only at the workplace and the employee level, but it is a matter of direct concern to the general community and also on the national and international level. Working in a healthy and safe environment is one of the most basic human rights for all of our employees. Human and economic losses due to problems related to the inability of occupational health and safety affect all countries negatively. Therefore, the employment of workers to raise the level of life, the measures to support human work and efficient work, and the peace of work are among the priorities of all our governments. Turkey is a country that has taken very important steps and made legal arrangements, especially in recent years, at the point of meeting its national legislation and international responsibilities in this regard. There are international contracts that bind us internationally and we need to take steps. In this regard, the 155 Convention Against Business Health and Safety of the International Labour Organization (ILO) No. 161 of the International Work Organization (ILO). International contracts approved at the time of the agreements of the EC PARTY governments. The Act No. 155 was adopted by Law 5038, and Act 161 was approved by Law 5039. An international contract highlighting the implementation of Article 155 of the term "economic activity" into the arm of all economic activity, including public services, which includes all the branches of employees, all those employed to include public employees should be included in the health and safety of all persons employed. Of course, it's 155 and 161. In addition to the contract of llu, Turkey signed in 2013 the 187 Employment Health and Safety Framework Charter, which was also adopted and ratified in 2014 by Turkey's ILO Convention on Security and Health in Mines 176. So all contracts on occupational health and safety at the point of Turkey's international obligations are contracts approved during the EC PARTY administrations in recent years. A very important legal arrangement has been made in this sense in our own legislation -- as our predecessors have expressed -- is actually related to occupational health and safety, and that is the Law on Occupational Health and Safety, number 6331, which took effect on June 26, 2012. By 2012, Turkey was a country without its own personal law on occupational health and safety. In Turkey, all measures related to occupational health and safety have been tried within the framework of Business Law 4857, while in 2012, the Law on Business Health and Safety in Turkey, with all employees involved in occupational health and safety, has taken on important responsibilities to their workplaces, making sure that all workplaces have to do risk analysis in this sense, making it absolutely and absolutely mandatory for employees to be shareholders. Prior to 2012, the number of employees under Business Law 4857 before this Law on Health and Safety was extremely limited. As you all know, no employees except 50 or more employees before 2012 were covered by occupational health and safety of public institutions, which was not part of the occupational health and safety of public institutions, which was almost 75 per cent of our total workplaces in Turkey, or almost 75 per cent of the workplace before the Law on Business Health and Safety came out. Now, it's very important that the public's will, in this sense, is to ensure that the state's occupational health and safety practices of the state, are to be paid by Social Security, at the point of no new burden due to the implementation of the Employment Health and Safety Act in 10 and lower workplaces. Now, this has all been arranged, and international contracts need to be signed, Law 6331. What are the practical consequences of this? Unfortunately, the application results are not at our request. I mean, we've made such important arrangements, and we've accepted the approach to the point that we need to be at a much more advanced point in our own legislation or in the international contract, but when you pay attention to the developments in 2012 and today's coming point, I think we're actually taking very important distances, but we're not at the desired point, and I think it's much more accurate and justified. How do I put this? Turkey has 727,000 jobs in 2002, the number of jobs at the end of 2015 is 1,740,000; the total increase is 139 per cent. As the number of employees referred to in 2002 as this former USSR member -- 5 million, 223,000, and at the end of 2015, the numbers are 14 million. If we assess the results of the measures taken on occupational health and safety, the number of business accidents or fatal business accidents, we will not be able to obtain a accurate statistics. When you look at an approach within a total employee, you have a much more accurate outcome. There are international standards for this, what is that? The number of accidents or the number of deaths in 100,000 employees. In this sense, the mortality rate in Turkey in 2002 is 16.8 per cent of every 100,000 jobs accidents; 2002 figures. In the 1990s, that number was over 40 percent; we all have data. The number 2015 is 8.9% per 100,000. Is there a serious decline? I do. But is it the number that's supposed to be? Absolutely not. Despite such precautions, despite such legal regulations, these numbers are still very high. Then what are we supposed to do? So the legal legislation alone is not enough, and it is important to promote security culture, as well as improving business health and safety conditions through the audit system. It's important that safe behavior becomes a reflex for both the employer and all the employees. At the top of the most important factors of effective implementation of occupational health and safety legislation is the development of self-health and safety behavioral science on a personal level, which is also important for society to access security culture. In recent years, especially at the beginning of security culture, there have been very important activities, both in our industrial and trade rooms, the Social Security Agency and the national education system; the development of a security awareness in our employees, especially in the implementation of business security from elementary school to the end of high school; and above all, the fact that our employees are acting in an approach to their own health. Highly important legal regulations have been made, and Turkey has approved many of the agreements of the ILO (ILO) through its legal arrangements over the past three or four years. He passed the Law on Occupational Health and Safety, bringing him important obligations. Important arrangements have been made at the point of liabilities, where the Social Security Agency can put its hands on the table financially, but in addition to increasing the public's security awareness... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I think it's an important step at the point where this problem should be off the agenda in the next few years, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0063par0538	Thank you, Mr. Runar.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0064par0539	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit01spe0063par0540	Yes, I'll submit the proposal to your votes, but before I submit it, there is a demand for a sufficient number of decisions. I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit02spe0063par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the People's Democratic Party group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Turkey's Grand National Assembly of the People's Party Group, which fell into the presidential Court, has been nominated for the Clerk Membership of the Grand National Assembly. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Mr. Kaplan, we wish you success in your new mission. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will begin talks with the European Parliamentary Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked in the 1st place, in accordance with the ratification of the Strategic Partnership and Friendship Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of Agreement for Co-operation in Maritime Area between the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Greece. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the State of Turkey's Government of the Republic of Afghanistan, and with the Court of Habibe Kadiri Girls between the Government of the Islamic Republic of Turkey, in accordance with the draft law bill and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the People's Republic of Turkey, and with the Court of Foreign Affairs, where it is appropriate to ratify the Agreement on the Reciprocity and Protection of Investments and Eki Protocol. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Turkish Republic's Government and with the State of Pakistan's Government on the Foundation of Culture Centres in the Government of the Islamic Republic of Turkey that the Agreement on its establishment, its operations and its activities is proper. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in accordance with the draft law bill and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of Agreement for Co-operation between the Government of Turkey and the Government of Yemen. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We are starting talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of Agreement for Co-operation in the Energy Area between the Norwegian Kingdom and the Government of Turkey. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 194 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE PRODUCTION OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION AND NORVEC KINGDOM ACTIVITY TO CONTROL THE CONTACT OF INTERVIEW IN ENERGY ACTIVITY MADDE 1- (1) was approved on November 5, 2013 in Ankara, with the approval of Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Norway to Co-operate in the Energy Area. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Bitlis MP Mr. Gaydalı will speak on Article 1. Here you go, Mr. Mahmoud Celadet Bagadel.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit02spe0065par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, on behalf of my party and group, I have made a pledge to negotiate international agreements. I salute you, the public, the prisoners, the prisoners, all of our citizens and their families who are taken hostage. Dear lawmakers, we're not against international agreements, but we believe it's not the top priority in the list of priorities to fill today's agenda. We have many vital problems such as social inequality, ethnic conflicts, production, consumption and distribution problems, food, unemployment, job safety, traffic safety, social safety, but they are not on the agenda. Turkey's politics is not in a position to adopt the world's general agenda. The society has problems with production, consumption, and Turkey's politics should take over all of this. Our institutions are not run by the civil rights regime. Although the ruling demonstrations are free everywhere, it is evident how anti-government demonstrations have been suppressed and pressured. Under these conditions, government management is a great risk to those who run the state. The system, brought in by the presidential draft, provides the authority to mold the country as it pleases to sit on its head. A change is like giving someone a destructive sledgehammer. This will cause the future president to act according to his ideological engagement and the group he is related to, and all structures to be shaped accordingly. In the future, presidents with different characters and ideas can turn the state into a puzzle board. We're in an environment where insecurity is at its lowest. If trust is lost, you can't build anything, you can't be a state, you can't build law, you can't carry out judicial activities. We can only solve this crisis by creating a common area of truth. We believe that we can rely on each other and build a new co-existence around a minimum democratic program. In social life, there's a fear and a shyness. We need to leave the traditional quarrels and get together and develop the expression of a new political language against fears, the Anatolian, Turk, Kurd, all the poor, all the different communities. Turkey was created today in accordance with the state-of-the-art act, which was declared on the basis of the coup. Law, democracy, human rights have been suspended; asking for freedom and peace has become the demands of a potential criminal. To become an academic for peace or to be a free journalist was punished. So far, 312 academics have been expelled and 156 journalists have been sent to prison. The area of democratic debate in Turkey has been anxiously narrowed down because of the growing judicial harassment of journalists, lawmakers, academics and the majority of the community, including ordinary citizens, and their actions which reduce and increase the majority of the government. Each party that does not develop a pro-government political rhetoric is criminalized and charged with membership of the organisation with completely illegal claims. Everyone who isn't a member of the government is either a member of a terrorist organization or a suspect who serves them in some way. I'm asking you, how far can Turkey travel with that logic? By this logic, dozens of our mayors were arrested, our co-chairs and fellow lawmakers, first prepared their rooms in prison and then brought before the judge; the people's will was condemned, the prisons became parliaments of social will. In this environment, trust in the judiciary, of course, will sink to the bottom. Let alone the insecurities of society, even the judges are no longer able to trust each other within themselves. Dear lawmakers, one of the most legitimate, natural duties of a political party is to convey its political thoughts to the public. But anyone who goes out on the street saying no is facing obstruction of law enforcement, gas, baton, reverse handcuffs. A whole empire of fear is being created. The individual is completely vulnerable to power. The legal system, which should protect the individual, has been completely suspended. As a guarantee in the State of Emergency announcement, the normal life of the city will not be affected. Go out on the street and see if there's an environment that's called normal. Two days ago, 11 DBP politicians were taken into custody in Bitlis, where I was acting. Those who say no, especially in Kurdish provinces, feel this pressure every day and every second. There's a structure right now that can't stand anyone saying no. If you want to talk about justice as a power, you have to defend the rights of those who say yes as well as those who say no. When those who say no lose their jobs, when those who say no are taken into custody, when those who say no are arrested, you cannot speak of justice while those who say no are criminalized. Dear lawmakers, the Deputy Prime Minister is talking about campaigning during the festival. There is a saying: You should be afraid of the one who plays in the wedding house and the one who cries a lot at the funeral home. The point is: "Yes, there is no excitement left in the workers because there is no story worth telling. Finally, I'd like to address the statements of Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım. He says that the main opposition party has boarded the boat of HDP. First of all, it's not the boat you're talking about, it's the boat. Even the Titanic was a brilliant design, but it crashed into an iceberg, and the survivors survived by lifeboats. Our lifeboats have six million volunteer rowers, all based on labor and manpower. We can even further say that ours is Noah's ark. Your ships run on imported fuel. When you run out of fuel, will you be able to move on with a turd? You don't realize your ship's getting water. You're still on the bail with the one-captain president. We don't need a president to make our way stronger and faster, we need a rhythm drum for our rowers to row more rhythmic and effective. It's also possible that this can be obtained from African tribes, which you've collaborated with technologically. On one condition, however, we must determine the terms of the tender and the tender procedures. We're not too interested in imports. Except our local drums don't sound so good. I'd like to share a story with you. During a military exercise, a driver and his commander are traveling quickly in a military vehicle. And since there's no traffic and no plates on the road, the driver goes full throttle. Suddenly, when they're on the edge of a cliff, the driver who doesn't notice the hard turn blows the car off a cliff. When the commander says, "What is it, my son?" he says, "The road is over, sir." Even though you're behind the wheel, and you've got a deputy who claims to see the flu next to you, who we don't think has ever seen, we believe he's going to use the initiative of our people on April 16th to move from the back seat and pull the hand brake and stop the car from flying off the cliff. Dear lawmakers, when world specimens are well studied, the requirement for economic strength is the parliamentary system, which is the bottom of this roof where public will can account for it. In the world economy, powerful countries are governed by parliamentary systems. Instead of making this system stronger, you intend to eliminate it completely, turn Parliament into a common commission. It's impossible to accept. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit02spe0066par0073	Thank you, Mr. Bagpipe. The second speaker on Article 1 is Adana MP Muharrem Varlı on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit02spe0067par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group regarding international agreements. I salute you all. This article is based on the energy agreement with Norway. Of course, when we think of energy, we think of the needs that Turkey needs the most, that our country needs most, like electricity, natural gas, oil, and at the very beginning, of course, dams and HESESTs to produce electricity. And while Mr. Development Minister is here, we'd also like to ask how big the GAP project is, when the GAP project will be finished, and when it will contribute to this country's economy in terms of agricultural irrigation and energy, because the GAP has never stopped. The money that was transferred was used in other places than the GAP. If the GAP were finished, there would be a project today that would respond to the country's needs the most. Because cotton-picking is common in that area. Turkey imports 2.5 billion dollars a year from outside silk cotton. This is an important loss to Turkey. If the GAP project had been completed, if the irrigated land in Adana had been completed, dams had been built and finished, Turkey would not have transferred $2 billion of money into other countries' farmers' pockets, it would have remained in its own farmer's pocket. For him, dams and HESEs are important to us, but while we're doing HES©s, of course, it's important to maintain nature as well as to act without disrupting the general function of nature. We also know that the rivers are dry with many of the black sea's hens, and the forest areas have been corrupted in this area. Again, we know that thermal power plants built in many areas, especially coal-powered coal-powered thermal power plants, first-quality drinking water, first-rate farmlands are failing, producing plants there are very impressed. That's why we have to make our investments by paying attention to them. My dear friends, Lake Seyhan Dam is a huge dam that waters the whole of Çukurova, more or less, a large dam that waters 70 percent. We've received some reports that the energy here will be tendered, privatized. That would be an extremely wrong procedure. Certainly, such privatisation should be taken off the government's agenda and not have this privatisation done. Why shouldn't it be done? If this privatisation is done, the person who will buy it will shape the flow of water accordingly, taking into account his own personal interest, his own money. With water flowing from here, the water coming from there will water the entire plain. For him, I recommend that the government review the energy portion at Seyhan Dam Lake and take it off the agenda, because as I just said, Lake Seyhan Dam is a dam that waters about 70 percent of Çukurova. Therefore, such privatisation should not be made in order not to victimize our people and farmers. In our villages, which are also part of the Lokman Nursing Corps in the Kalmetr region, the acres of the narcissian gardens are watered by large costs -- like $350,000 in old money, more or less. Now, even though water was removed from the river, from the Ceyhan River, with electric pumps or diesel engines, the same practice is being done. We need to get rid of this as soon as possible, and the DSI needs to rethink it, or our farmers there are very victims, and they've got a very important burden on them. The Bag Bill is being discussed by the Plan and Budget Commission. The bag's in the law, as far as we know, there's a delay in debt at the Agriculture Bank, but it's a matter of default debt. If such an application is performed, it would be a very harmful practice. To default is to become a person and an institution where all banks no longer lend credit, which is to victimize our farmer. If he's having trouble paying, if he's having trouble paying, all farmers must postpone their debts with low interest from the Agriculture Bank. And the interest rates of the Agriculture Bank-- of course, when we say that, we don't mean bureaucrats, we don't mean agricultural bank employees, we're talking about how to set up the law that comes out of here, so the bureaucrats don't have to be sensitive about it. Now, you have to get the interest rates right. It's now instalmented by 16 per cent or 14 per cent, which should be drawn to 3 per cent of the figures, so if we can't do that, we'll be putting a very important burden on the farmer's back. The farmer's burden is out of the question, and the farmer is already in trouble, and the farmer is already incapable of planting his own field. The load of diesel, the load of fertilizer, is riding on the farmer very heavily every day. Here, urethra fertilizer, I need it right now -- I'll put it in the old number -- $1,200,000. When you went out three months ago and paid in advance -- in the old figure -- it was $740,000, urethra fertilizer, now $1,200,000. I mean, if it saves urethra for $740,000, why is it now $1,200,000? I've said it over and over again here, but it came from the government's ear, it came from your ear. No one's ever heard of it, no one's paying attention to it, and why is this happening, and how do we regulate the free market? No one thinks about it. However, if we had put the Agriculture Loan Foundation into action in that sense, if the Agriculture Loan Agency had fed the farmer's fertilizer demand, the trader on the free market couldn't sell fertilizer to these numbers. But, of course, no matter what we say, the government's agenda is different, unfortunately, because the government has no agenda. I'd like to express this with regret for him as well. My dear friends, I'm also telling our friends in the Plan and Budget, and I'm telling the Ministry of Agriculture, and I'm telling the Department of Agriculture that if the debt of the Agriculture Bank is to be delayed, all producers, all manufacturers who have trouble paying, must be delayed by 3% interest. A interest on this would cost the farmer a very high price, and the farmer would not be able to lift that burden. So, please, we'd like our friends who will pass this law to reconsider. Again, the Minister of Agriculture here said earlier, so I've brought it up many times, so let's add cotton to Chokurova. Çukurova would have to plant cotton, and the Aegean would have to plant cotton, and the region of Urbana would have to sow cotton. I have brought it up many times. The Minister of Agriculture has always found that to be true, and he said that he would have his own support. But, now, we're learning that the cotton support bonus is now 75 cents, and the old number is $750,000, so it's the same number as last year. They said the number would be higher for the cotton to replace the corn, and there's no study of it. So, if you want to get the farmer to plant cotton in Çukurova, if you want your $2 billion to go into the pockets of other country's farmers and keep it in the pockets of the Turkish farmer, you can do that with 75-80 million dollars. But you don't want to do this. And since you don't want to do this, you don't want to make an effort in that sense, and you don't want to solve it, unfortunately, you're trying to avoid the farmer at the price of the previous year. We haven't had any diesel support, fertilizer support yet. The farmer's planting, the corn crops are starting, and in a few days, cotton crops will start, but the farmer doesn't have any money in his pocket. Come on, give me that money. He's off the hook, he's on the hook, you've got him. Pay this money quickly, so the farmer can get his seed, get his fertilizer, and not go and drown in interest. But, like I said, your agenda isn't to protect the farmer, to protect the man who makes it, unfortunately. I'm out of hair here. You're not tired of listening, but I'm not gonna get tired of saying it, I'm gonna come out here every time, and I'm gonna keep saying it over and over again. You don't understand, otherwise. Mr. Kubat is laughing from there. You need to figure this out, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit02spe0068par0089	We listen, we listen, we listen.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit02spe0067par0090	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit02spe0069par0092	It goes in one ear, comes out the other.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit02spe0070par0093	Thank you, Mr Varli. The third speaker on Article 1 on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group is Omar Fethi Gürer, Nüğde MP. Here you go, Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit02spe0071par0097	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the 1st article of Agreement No. 194. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, I believe our Parliament's main agenda should be terrorism and economic problems. The farmer's, the worker's, the peasant's problems are getting more and more intense. According to TİK data, unemployment has risen to 3,700,000 people. The number of people who lost their jobs in five years is 1,400,000. In 2016, 590,000 more were unemployed. Beyond official numbers, the number of people who have lost hope and who will work has reached 6.5 million unemployed. I went with 16 on behalf of CHP Labor Offices, and I saw the problems in the province in order. It's bad. In this context, after the work we did, I asked the Minister of Labor and Social Security for jobs and unemployed people who were closed in Central Anatolia. He wrote: In three years, 2,696 businesses were closed in Nevşehir province, 12.838 insured unemployed. Three years in Yozgat province, 3,663 businesses closed, 17.058 unemployed. In three years 2.060 businesses were closed in Kırşehir province, 8,784 people were unemployed. In the province of Niğde, 4,663 businesses were closed in three years, 17.857 people were unemployed. Niğde has risen to the top in the provinces of the region, not only to receive services, to benefit from government support, but also to close the workplace and layoffs. A total of 13,082 businesses have been closed and 56,537 have been unemployed. Dear lawmakers, these four counties are not the only cities in our country that have closed down businesses. I've been a unionist in Adana for many years. Traffic was locked in the shifts of workers who left TEKEL, with textile factories such as PAKTAK, Uzbucak, South Mensucat Industries, Mediterranean, Bossa, Sumerbank. Unfortunately, those factories were replaced by malls -- no production, no workplaces, job seekers at the gates of municipalities. Privatisation factories closed, unemployment increased. As there are no replacements for the closing workplaces, outside dependency has been an important factor in the rise of unemployment in our country. And when I looked into the businesses that are now being handed over to the Entity Fund as members of the CSI Commission, which are likely to be held hostage to get a loan from abroad, I saw that there's a great risk here, too. Turkey's most important remaining institutions, unfortunately, are being dragged into an uncertain process of what will happen by hand of the Entity Fund. I've asked the Minister about what will happen to the employees here. Hopefully, and hopefully, they'll make a statement about it. Is this different from what happened in Asia Minor? Even when you travel through Istanbul, it is possible that you will be able to see and listen to the industry, the shop owner, who suffers from close jobs or similar situations. The number of university graduates has risen to 509,536. In this reply I received from the Minister, 72,000 more college graduates were unemployed in six months. Those who don't apply because they have no job prospects and nearly a million college graduates are unemployed. Sadly, the promise of a staff to subcontractors will take place in three months. It did not take place in one year when it was called. As their expectations continued, Mr. Secretary said it wouldn't happen this year. I wonder what year it'll be. The subcontractors are looking forward to it. Unregistered teachers are still the problem. 20,000 people were announced to be appointed to teach in February, but the Ministry of National Education does not have this kind of work, even though 100,000 teachers could be taken in exchange for 60,000 teachers short. The paramedics who were waiting for my appointment started a fraternity. We'll take you this year for 60,000 of the 300 thousand non-assigned medics. It's said that the medics are waiting with hope to start work in hospitals. Hopefully, I hope they don't turn into subcontractors. The platform of art history education came to visit me. We became a country where job seekers are now either building platforms or building associations. In this context, art history graduates say that as dozens of works of the foundation and culture were destroyed, there were not enough jobs available for them. They also say that they have been trained from different majors or that they have been taken to work and their opportunities have been cut off. The Minister of Finance is making statements, talking about purchases, playing with people's hopes, unfortunately none of them are happening, or there are very little purchases. In addition to the problems of the workers, the state of the engineers, even the condition of the working engineers, is dire. We have college-educated engineers who have to work under almost minimum wage conditions. I raised questions to the Minister for the victims, such as the 4/C people and the 4/B people, and he told me what had been done in the past. However, they expect 4/C and 4/B to provide equal rights to equal employment, to address staff problems, or to improve their rights of identity. Unfortunately, I did not get a positive answer in the questions I asked the minister. There's a lot of talk about pensioners, too. Unfortunately, the promises for pensioners are not kept. Regarding the principle law, the minister has again expressed on my written question that there will be no regulation. We also asked if there was an arrangement for the age-appropriate situation. The government has not considered any improvement in this matter, it has been noted. The pensioners were promised cheap housing, which unfortunately did not come true. A provision for pensioners' contribution to medicine did not take place at this stage. Despite daily statements about the promotion of pensioners, such as tomorrow's series, there has not been a situation so far about the payments the banks are going to make. Unfortunately, in our country, there are more and more work killings. 18,000 people lost their lives in business killings during AKP rulings. In addition to work killings, there's been an increase in our country as well as occupational diseases. The number of those who were unable to work more than 60 per cent in occupational diseases due to the growing negativity of working conditions reached 312 in 2015 and 355 in 2016, according to the 60 per cent institutional health report. Some of these sick people have to work so they don't lose their job. Like pulmonary diseases, hand and arm disorders, such as the negativity of ear problems, it is unfortunate that occupational diseases continue to grow in our country. In addition to this increase in the problems of employees in our country, unfortunately, the agenda is tied to the Constitution referendum. When we go to the constitutional referendum, when our citizens ask about 18 articles, I give more information about the function of the House. Citizens are curious as to why 550 MPs were raised in parliament without a prime minister, without a Council of Ministers, without a vote of confidence, without a gene, without a verbal question motion, for 600, and we are curious. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Besides, our people are asking how the party president will be neutral, and if he is the leader of a party, how about giving instructions to the mayors in the morning and calling the governor in the afternoon and giving instructions? They also say it is not in our country's best interest to turn this process back to the party state into a single man's regime by excluding the parliamentary system, which will destroy our country's experiences over a hundred and forty years. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The poverty, unemployment, work killings, transforming the pensioner's problems, while the parliamentary system should be strengthened, while the public cannot digest the change of the country's regime for a single person, rather than the problems of the people, and therefore says no. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit02spe0072par0118	Thank you, Mr. Gürer. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. The first say on behalf of groups on Article 2 of Article 2 belongs to Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit02spe0073par0125	Mr. President, very dear MPs, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on this bilateral agreement on behalf of the National Movement Party, the High Assembly, the Veterans Assembly, to salute and salute again. Honourable lawmakers are the most important political outlet for the establishment of international agreements we are negotiating. What's foreign policy? In short, it's the name of the policy that a state has, in order to protect and improve its goals and ideals, defined as national interest, against the outside world, the international system. In other words, the policy of the society and the state living in one country is the planned, direct-directed goals for the communities and states outside it. Thus, when determining foreign policy of nations or states, they need to pay attention to both the outside developments and the inside developments. Members of parliament, the above definition briefly, as I have expressed in part, has two key issues in determining foreign policy; the first is the defining of national interest, the basic criteria of foreign policy; and the second is how and how policy will be created. Given the generally accepted definition of content, a three-dimensional definition of national interest in protecting political security -- sovereignty, survival, and staying away from external attacks and threats, increasing the economic level of national prosperity, and finally maintaining sociocultural values. Turkey's international responsibility is very heavy in the middle of the intersection of civilizations, where problems are always active. On the one hand, sticking to the balance of these three-dimensional national interests, the Caucasus and Central Asia, the Middle East and the Balkans, the EU-axised Europe and NATO-linked balances require very carefulness in our region. You know, it's possible to make it more clear by explaining Turkey's political conjunctive with a few concrete examples. You all know, on the one hand, unfortunately, that the gap in our foreign policy goals when we were away from the issues that I'd just pointed out at the content point has caused a terror spiral that's found fire outside and reflected inside. It began with Iraq, which then spread to Syria, which led to the escape of our inner peace. Meanwhile, the recent attitude of most of our NATO allies, members of the European Union, has made it very clear. What is this? In its most concrete example, the refugee crisis, our experiences, and the specific commitments -- the removal of the promise of visa exemption -- has been seen very clearly. We've seen this attitude before in artificial, artificial, non-responsive, so-called genocide. On the other hand, the policy of the United States to isolate Turkey is very clear, especially after the July 15 coup attempt. On the other hand, Israel's recent proposal to build more than 4,000 unauthorized dwellings in the West Bank, Palestine, is one of the problems we face in foreign policy. But on top of all that, we're stuck with another international problem that's kept its temperature in the last few days. Again, there are some problems and difficulties with Russia, which are involved in the events taking place from the axis of national interests. The latest example of this is Russia's biased, biased stance on the Crimean Autonomous Zone in Ukraine. What is it? Despite being demanded, the abandonment of this area... in fact, by refusing to intervene in this autonomous zone, they themselves have stated that it is our land, we cannot give up. Respected MPs, Crimea, you know, is a geography, the name of a geography, which has been persecuted by the Soviets, especially by the excuse that he helped the Germans in the Second World War in the Stalin period. Our descendants there, the Crimean Turks, I especially want to emphasize this because you're a tartar. When they asked Halil Inalcik, our late teacher, when they interviewed him for a book, what do you call it, Hocam, as a Tatar? He said, "No, Tatar, not Tatar, we are Crimean Klopchak Turks." Without that correction, it is beneficial to stress that those brothers, our descendants, were put in the train cars in 1944, sent to the distant parts of Russia, even Uzbekistan; about 300,000 of our brothers, unfortunately, were almost 200,000, and some of them were destroyed in the cold waters of the Black Sea, to come to Turkey. Today we say what we need on all international platforms about them, but unfortunately, our sanctions are not effective. At this point, we really need to rethink our foreign policy. What to do at this point is to stick to the two-axis principles that I've just counted. One: national interests. What was that all about? It was security, prosperity, and the point of moving our sociocultural values. And to figure out how to do that. They've actually been mostly determined so far because we have a very powerful government tradition. So when we started with a process that began from the Hun Empire to Europe, from Attila the West, it was very clear to Mustafa Kemal. Today, it is possible to overcome some international difficulties by locking on to the same goals. What is to be done is to prioritize good relations with the outside world and the neighbours, with a national interest-based commitment, unity and unity law, and eastern-west, north-south division. We actually see examples of this in our history. The understanding of East-West relations established by Gökalp (Ismail Gaspara) and followed by Mustafa Kemal (Ishmael) is also the name of our president's position today, which is to be consolidated by the double Seljulu eagle, one foot in the West, one foot in the East, one head facing the West, one head facing the West, and the other facing the East. We need to be aware that the two-headed eagle is a symbol of the power and power of our birth. This is also the expression of our strategic will. So, the essence of the word, the point of our movement in foreign policy, is that we want to stay in the West, not turn our backs on the East. Hopefully, Mustafa Kemal will rise above the level of muasar civilizations. That's another expression of his word, "Western" and "West" with one head and "East" with one head. I salute you all with the same feelings.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit02spe0074par0136	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Müslüm Doğan, İzmir MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on Article 2. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit02spe0075par0140	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group regarding the proposal for the approval of international agreements. I salute you all. Before I begin my speech, dear MPs, I'd like to inform you about an incident in Manisa. I wrote a letter to the Justice Department, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors and to the Parliamentary Committee on Human Rights, about the following valued MPs: 73 people who have been arrested for 14 months have not been brought to trial. When you think about these 73 people's families, their environment, their work, the private court's attorney has been doing everything he can to prolong this process for 14 months, and he's not bringing these people to trial. Indeed, it also harms social peace there. I'm bringing this to your attention. I'd like to see to it that the prosecutor's in charge of the officer in question is taken care of as well. Dear lawmakers have come to a conclusion about human rights and democracy in this country, which is close to the people of our country. So what's the main problem of this country, what problems are the main problem of our country, there's also a social agreement to see how we can solve them, and there's a definition of this. There is no doubt that this country has a Kurdish problem. There is, in fact, a complete consensus that this problem can be resolved in a peaceful, democratic way. Everyone, all our people in this country want this problem solved on a peaceful, democratic basis. There is almost once again a consensus on the liberalisation of the beliefs and teachings of the Alekis and other groups of faiths, and that they will be placed on the legal plane. I think the solution to these problems should be easy now. Because if society has identified these problems, if these problems are going to pave the way for the country in terms of human rights and democracy, if we're going to move forward in terms of human rights and democracy, if there's an opinion about this, then I think that these issues should be easy to resolve. The problem has been determined, and there is a social consensus on the method of solution. If we don't solve these problems, our peoples, our beliefs will be separated, the achievements of historical processes will be in vain, unfortunately. Unfortunately, chaos and severe violations of rights have again dominated the process of peace and reconciliation in terms of human rights, as Turkey has been restored to violent policies in July 2015. Dear lawmakers, the country's fundamental issues have become heavy under the influence of international foreign policy, under the influence of the ongoing war policies, political authorisation has reached its top level, the separation of forces and judicial independence has been eliminated, a operational presidential system where political power is all in hand has begun to take place in our country, unfortunately. In addition, new violations of rights in all dimensions have now reached an unacceptable level as a result of decrees in the laws imposed by the State of Emergency and its practices, which have been launched after the coup attempt, and that is in fact a threat to social peace. We have created hundreds of thousands of people who have been fired from their jobs in accordance with the law, who have no right to work anywhere, whose right to work, whose property has been seized, who have been taken into custody for arbitrary reasons, who have been tortured, who have been detained for uncertain periods, who have been deprived of all legal protection and defence rights, who have not received a response from the Constitutional judiciary or administrative judiciary. In the process, of course, what was needed for our party was done, and in the process, our party was officially under siege; its political work is being put on hold. Dear lawmakers, 519 people have been taken into custody in the last two days in operations against our party's components and democratic regional parties. We see this as an attempt to avoid saying no in the referendum of the Constitutional amendment, which actually envisions a new state order, so the detentions and arrests set out to prevent its work, unfortunately, were set up to prevent no. I'd also like to point out here that Mr. President and Mr. Prime Minister's accusations against our party and the democratic forces -- I say so in the face -- point to the spiritual state they're in. It's a moody mood, which actually needs to get out of here fast. Our people will give the answer on April 16th to those who don't realize they can't go anywhere with our people. Nine MPs have been arrested along with Peoples' Democratic Party Co-Chairs Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ. 81 co-Chairs are currently under arrest. Dear lawmakers, as a party whose political production has been blocked, democratic political areas have been destroyed, we will eliminate this atmosphere of oppression and violence and teach the needed lesson at the April 16th referendum. Everyone knows how talented our party is in democratic political production, in the field of democratic struggle, and it's best that you know those processes as politicians. The newspapers, TVs, magazines, have been shut down due to pressures that have not been covered in any of our history on the press, have been shut down. A lot of pressure has been put under pressure by arrests and pressure from Cumhuriyet daily, and the arrest of writers from Cumhuriyet daily continues. Again, a large number of TVs have been turned off for Turkey's democracy and human rights problem, its common home, its support for life together, its Kurdish broadcaster, its belief in Alevi and its teaching. Unfortunately, the TVESTs broadcasting on the left line have been shut down again, including the problems of workers and labourers, reporting directly from their workplaces. There have been serious violations in the field of freedom of thought and expression in our country in 2016, especially the pressure and control of political power over the press has reached an alarming extent. Freedom of expression is almost stuck between the two lips of power and the decree issued by the State of Emergency. This year, there have been lawsuits against journalists, writers, human rights advocates, many others like them, arrests, collections of magazines and books, newspapers closed, actual attacks on opposition newspaper buildings and journalists. The Alevi's demands for equal citizenship were not met in 2016. The ECHR's decisions on the removal of mandatory religious lessons and the adoption of the mosques as a temple have not been fulfilled. Turkey is going through a period when its extraordinary management procedures as a whole are in effect after the July 15 coup attempt. The coups and coup attempts are a result of the failure to face the past, the inequity, and therefore the system's inability to democratize. Dear lawmakers, the monotheist, sovereign nation and sovereign belief system will continue to be heavy, as long as the problem is not abandoned, but the bill of the situation will be paid back to our working people. In addition to the enjoyment, torture, and abuse of law enforcement regulations and practices, practices that have gone completely outside the law must be abandoned immediately. The removal of the academics from the duties of the academics under Code No. 686 is now an important sign of how far this will go. After the coup attempt, the grounds of the State of Emergency and the State of Emergency declared in Turkey were to fight the coup attempt, while the rulings issued under the law have been put under heavy pressure on the social opposition. For example, during the September 12th military coup, 8,500 civil servants, including academics and teachers, were discharged by order of martial law commanders. Following the July 15 coup attempt, more than 100,000 civil servants have been suspended and more than 80,000 civil servants have been discharged. The 4th article of the International Convention on Human Rights of the United Nations and Political Rights of the State of Emergency shall be between the 15th Amendment of the European Convention on Human Rights, and the 15th Article of the Constitution, and the obligations of the Constitution shall be reduced by these restrictions, while the State of Emergency practices include detention period, right to life and torture, right to human rights and security, right to be judged fairly, freedom of travel, freedom of expression, right to work, rights of property and discrimination.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit02spe0076par0160	I'm turning on your microphone, complete, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit02spe0075par0161	Thank you, Mayor. The decision issued by the State of Emergency states that the closure of 19 unions, the closure of around 1,600 organisations and the foundation, is seriously under pressure of political power. Some of the human rights organizations have been targeted and shut down for good. These include such associations as the ChHD, the DHD, MHD, the Agenda Boy, the IRAD, the Ivy League, the VAKAD, Kurd-Der, the Rojava Association, which we know to work very closely. Dear MPs, the precondition for democracy is freedom of expression. At the moment, freedom of expression has been suspended in Turkey, and the judiciary is under pressure. Thus, even in the minimum standards of Turkey, democracy cannot be mentioned. The State of Emergency and the Turkish Cypriot regime is a counter-violence regime, which must be abandoned immediately. The ongoing violations of rights must be stopped, an active investigation into the responsible must be carried out and immediately abandoned. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit02spe0077par0167	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the third speaker on the matter is Bulent Öz, Çanakkale MP. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit02spe0078par0171	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the relevant clause. I salute your high council. As the Republican People's Party, we certainly support initiatives to benefit our country in international agreements, but the basis for international relations sitting on solid ground is to look like a country that has completed the construction of democracy, adopted the rule of law, established rights and freedoms. This constitutional amendment will keep our country from becoming a country of social and economic trust, keeping us on the journey of freedom and democracy. Each time, those who speak of the national will have signed a bill that would ignore national sovereignty. Dear lawmakers, after the June 7, 2015 elections, no party was able to come to power on its own by the decision of the national will, our nation said, "Contact, form a coalition, agree, compromise." Unfortunately, the AKP did not respect the will of the nation on June 7th. As the AKP refused to form a coalition after June 7th, if you remove the AKP (AKP) from power, the white Toros will move about in peace. You are back in power in the November 2015 elections in this atmosphere. Against your understanding, the terrorist incidents continued. Today, you continue to threaten our nation, and if we don't go to the presidency, terror will continue, and the country will be divided. You continue to threaten our nation in the form of a nation. If your rulers don't leave the referendum, there will be a civil war in the country. The president, the Prime Minister, goes out and gives the PKK no. He says, "No." And he gives it to me as if they're going to give it to me. Those of you who haven't dropped the will of the nation in 15 years, must ask the national will. If the public chooses you, it's good, but if it doesn't, it's a terrorist? Why are you doing this, polarizing society? And how do you know that terrorist organizations will give you no? I wonder if the PKK gives no. It's important to ask if there's something else going on because in the Imran logs of Ocalan, it's known that we support Bey's presidency. The Constitutional Amendment, however, gives the President the authority to establish a public corporate personality on the basis of the integrity of the administration. I don't understand why divisive elements seeking autonomy would support no in this constitutional amendment. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Even though you've been in power alone for 14 years and have the majority to pass any law you want through Parliament, we're wondering why this presidential insistence, what is your political plan behind the scenes? You're saying the amendment is not a regime change, it's a system change. But your executives are going to come out and hit the table again, or we're going to continue to crawl for another 90 years. A deputy of yours is going on a nine-year commercial break for the republican regime. Another member of parliament says the first four articles of the Constitution can be changed. What you're really thinking, what you're hiding from people, 80 million people are wondering. The presidential system is a system based on all or nothing. The 51 per cent earns everything, 49 per cent is ignored. This Constitutional proposal is a personal government project that is incompatible with presidential or presidential systems. The draft came to the attention at a time when the longing for democratisation in this society rose and the new constitutional process had high expectations of society, but contrary to what was expected, the draft went contrary to the longing for democratisation. Under the rule of law, this draft will hit individual rights and freedoms severely. This understanding, which is promoting democracy in the name of stability, should not miss the fact that Turkey's main need is democratic reconciliation and peace of business in society. In a country with diversity of cultural, ethnic, religious, ideological care such as Turkey, conditions for living together in the framework of democratic values such as freedom, tolerance and reconciliation for citizens with different values, beliefs. An understanding that aims to maintain control of the majority is not possible to respond to social needs. In this direction, the liberal and participant parliamentary system must be strengthened rather than the understanding of the state that a group will govern on its path to democratisation. The Republican People's Party does not have an alternative constitutional study. It is also a big lie to be called. As always, society is lied to by perception management. As in the Republican People's Party's election declarations and proposals, a more liberal, more democratic constitution must be prepared, such as the change of the Political Party's Law, the fall of the electoral dam, and the election of lawmakers by the public. It seems a more reasonable way to look for ways to run a parliamentary system that is more suitable for our political culture and our party system. There is not a single clause in this package for the sake of democracy, for the benefit of the country, for the benefit of the nation. There is no clause about free press, free society, civil society organizations, universities, trade unions working freely; there is no tradesman, farmer, retired industrialist; all arrangements are not for the benefit of the nation, but only for one. Our society needs unity and unity. Because of the insistence of the presidency, society is moving away from democracy. This will lead to political crises, contrary to what is expected. However, this society has lived in this geography as brothers for hundreds of years. Our nation has unity and unity at its core. With that understanding, this nation has become one body against the occupation forces in Çanakkale, and has been told to stop the enemy forces with the unity and unity of women, children, from all parts of Anatolia, and from all parts of society. This is the spirit of Çanakkale, the spirit of social reconciliation. (HPP) Remember that each year thousands of buses have been laid down and the foundations of our nation's republic go to Çanakkale, a symbol of unity and unity, and that spirit lives on. Today, under the roof of this House, we are 550 respected MPs and 80 million of our citizens in Turkey, born of the spirit of Çanakkale, and this spirit was born in Çanakkale, by order of our ancestors. Today we, the nation, met under the roof of the official capital, which is called Ankara, and on that day our ancestors met in the spiritual capital, called Çanakkale. Dear MPs, a nation is born from the spirit of Çanakkale, a nation is born. Because of that spirit, the kingdom of the nation was taken from the palace and given to the nation itself. Our nation will have the Chanakkale spirit, where the first foundations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is national sovereignty, where the republic's pre-word is written. That's why today, not a group of people's will, but our nation's will. As our fathers have done, he shall be bound by the will of the people, against the land, against the enemy. We have to think of our grandfathers in Çanakkale. We have to think about the blood and the blood that fell into the ground before the white shrouds could be wrapped. We have to think of the legend of the wonders of the nation in Çanakkale, the flag that did not fall, 253,000 martyrs, and those that set like the sun for a crescent. We have to remember how many people fought in the same trench in Çanakkale and were brothers and sisters under the same soil. (Applause from the ranks of CHP) We must adhere to our ancestors, who have become one and created a nation, to think of the Chanakkale, to stick to the Chanakkale spirit, to the struggle for independence and freedom.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit02spe0079par0183	Here, I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Oz, complete.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit02spe0078par0184	In the years of the national struggle, in Çanakkale, and in all the fronts, no one of our Mehmetchik had any personal interests; they had only one interest, the future of the nation and their country. Just as we all fought together, without distinction, no matter what party we are today, we must unite for the future of Turkey. On the evening of July 15th, under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our nation has forgotten your signature, even though you have made emphasis on the parliamentary system, democracy, national sovereignty and the will of the nation. I would like to address our beloved nation: this is not a political party choice. With the votes we will cast on 16 April, you will not choose Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, nor will you vote for Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroğlu; nor will you vote for the People's Party of the Republic. We will vote the fate of our country. Will the government of the country be ruled by the people themselves, or will it be run by a group, and we will vote on it. We'll vote national will, parliamentary system. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Our nation will not leave the rest of our country in one hand, and our nation will have its own will. He says thank you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit02spe0080par0190	Thank you, Mr. Oz. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these laws. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 3 is accepted. Congressmans, the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Congressmans, I submit to your votes that all votes of the following international agreements should be carried out by separate electronic voting devices: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'm not going to repeat the rules about the open vote every time. Right now, the rules I'm going to give you for your information apply to all open voting. Each vote will be held for a period of time. I ask that members who have not been able to enter the system during the time of the vote ask the technical staff for help and that the members who have not been able to get the ballots into the system despite this help should be delivered to the presidency within the time envisioned for the vote. I remind you that our lawmakers who voted by ballot do not leave the General Assembly. Also, if there are those who will vote as acting ministers, I would ask that they vote to which minister, by the color of the game, and by the name and name of its name, again pass the ballot to the presidential office during the time envisioned for the vote. Now, I'm giving you three minutes to vote on this deal. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0080par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The open vote of the entire Law Bill 194 was not enough for the meeting. Now I'm going to put the whole bill to an open vote again. I'll give you three minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, may I present to you the conclusion of the open vote on the adoption of the Covenant for Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Norway in the Energy Area of Norway: ▪ The number of votes used: 200 [[x]] The bill is adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. We will begin talks with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 9th place, in accordance with the Co-operation Between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Niger in the mines. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Ministry of the Law and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 10th place, in line with the 10th place, in accordance with the Co-operation between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Niger in the field of Energy and Hydrocarbons. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Turkish Republic's Government and the State's Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of Agreement for Co-operation between Energy and Hydrocarbon Areas in the Government of the Republic of Turkey in the 11th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Court of Law and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked 12th, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Sudan. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed by 46 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The government of Turkey and the Republic of Water will continue to plan for the establishment of HYDROCARBON. MADDE 1-1-1 (1) was approved on 26 May 2013 by the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Sudan in connection with Co-operation in the Hydrocarbon Area. I will meet your demands on the 1st article. First speaker on behalf of the groups, Antalya MP Ahmet Selim Yurdakul on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0081par0040	Mr. President, before I begin with my words, I remember with mercy and gratitude the heroic Turkish children of each and every one of them, who were martyrs of the terrorist organization's bitch attacks. Today, we were with nearly 100 of our young friends from all over our country. We have hosted young brothers and sisters such as Mr. Erhan Ustah, our Parliamentary Movement Party, visiting our Parliamentary Movement Party, east of our country, west of our country, to the north of our Parliament. I saw the future of our country in the eyes of these young people, and I looked at the horizons of the great Turkish nation in the eyes of these young people. By absorbing the entire agenda of our country, these brothers and sisters who love their country have expressed their personal and national concerns to us. Turkish youths are now waking up, witnessing the struggle between the borders and across the border for the country and the Turkish flag of their peers. Turkish youths, like our ancestors, are ready to take responsibility without delay to protect their nation and state, even if the world were to dig our wells. Turkish youth who love their homeland do what they know best and serve the existence of the great Turkish nation. Honourable citizens, as the Turkish nation, we curse the evil terror organizations who have no heart to face us. And whoever grieves the children of this people - We will have both hands upon him in this world and the Hereafter. We are members of a proud nation that says, "One dies and a thousand live. " By Allah's leave, we will come out of this sea of storms and reach the quiet ports. On this journey, we are all one on this ship, all proud members of the Turkish nation who are rowing to the same goal. Those who mean for our unity and unity will lose. Those who look friendly and shoot us in the back will die in their own traps. There is only one ruler of this land, and he is the great Turkish nation. On this occasion, salute the Turkish infantry, the Turkish artillery, the Turkish tanks, the Turkish Special Forces, the Turkish Special Forces, the Turkish Navy, the elite troops of the Turkish Navy that have built the seven seas, the Turkish Air Force and the Turkish soldiers who have blown up our flag in every land. I thank our brothers and sisters who support our soldiers and innocent civilians on the day and night, and our soldiers who send death to the enemy, and the elite soldiers of the Underwater Defense Group Command, who have destroyed the bomb traps of the bitch and the cowardly enemy, and may Allah open their way, and may your sword be sharp and your gas be blessed. Honourable MPs, I have stated today that we are meeting with our fellow medics, who are full of bright young men. By God's leave, they too will provide health care for this fine nation. By doing their sacred professions that protect and save human life, they will fight to ensure that the great Turkish nation remains forever in this geography. All expectations are to be able to bring health care to the Turkish nation in a fair and decent public system. However, let us examine together the health personnel policy of the AKP government. Dear citizens, as you all know, doctors graduate from medical schools, nurses, midwifes, medical secretary, physical therapists, paramedics, from universities of health and health care, mainly vocational high schools or universities of applied sciences. In our country, there are over 500 upper secondary schools of health and averages of 75,000 students a year, including public schools, others as private schools. However, the total number of students in healthcare universities, including pre-license programmes, is around 264,000 in 2015-2016. So that's the number of students in our country who have graduated from these schools in health care within a year. Now, after so many of our fellow students have graduated, unfortunately, they remain exposed because the AKP government uses the subcontractor system to purchase health personnel. For a quality and rightful health system, the first condition for providing Turkish national health care is that health care should be provided by educated, equipped and qualified people. We have a request from the AKP government, Mr. Health Minister and Mr. Finance Minister as the National Movement Party on behalf of Turkish youth: Please give up the subcontractor system in appointment of health personnel. We now have approximately 400,000 non-assigned paramedics. These are our young people who have studied, trained, and equipped with difficulties. Let us appoint these young people, especially in your public-private partnership, to the city hospitals, living centres, family health centers, and rural health departments that you have made since 2017. Come on, let's give these young people and their families some good news. Let's make 40,000, 60,000 appointments, just like the unassigned teachers. The second important issue is that you have received medical personnel, but you have not completed security investigations until 2016, even though you have made this purchase. These youths patiently request that they appoint the results of this investigation. And we demand that this work be done quickly. Our medical personnel continue to serve with great sacrifice throughout our country. However, there are no increases in our health care staff's rights, especially in pensions and working salaries, and the return capitals they receive as soon as they work do not count as pensions. Here, let's all pass along the bill proposed by the National Movement Party on this subject and give this good news to our health staff together. The other issue is what Mr. Health Minister said last week about the wear and tear. Mr. Minister of Health says: "The share of wear is ready." See, that's what's been on the agenda since last year. If he's ready, Mr. Prime Minister, come, let's get this scraping cut out of the way. Now, we know you've been dragging the waste share for years, but for four years now, let's give the good news to the medical staff. So, what do we, the National Movement Party, offer in health? It's not just opposition. Look, we'd like to share with all our citizens what needs to be done here as the National Movement Party. First, let us focus more on protective health care than on therapeutic services. This reduces the congestion in front of therapeutic services, which reduces the buildup in hospitals and reduces your health care expenses. Second: We need to restructure first step health care, so let's set up multidisciplinary health centers where quality, coordination and patient happiness are provided. So let's build a health centre with labs and X-ray services in it, including assistant medical staff, dietary, psychologists, and let our citizens address their problems here. Third, let's move on to cultural change, high-performance health care. Let's move away from the policy of devaluement of health workers, and move on to a health care system that makes both our patients and our health workers happy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Just a few more things.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0082par0056	Here, I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0081par0057	Thank you, Mr. President. Number four: You have the performance system that you insist on, and if you insist on the performance system, if we care more about volume than quantity, or quality, then the injustice in this performance system will be over. Fifth, let's create accountable health institutions together. Sixth: Let's build together a Turkish health system that cares about education, RD studies and information technologies. Here, see, then we can all solve all the problems together because both our patients and our health workers are satisfied together. I give you all my love and respect for listening to me very carefully.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0083par0063	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. On article 1...
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0084par0065	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0083par0066	Mr. Sky, come in. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0084par0070	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, some time ago, an officer in the Ministry of Laws and Decisions, Birol Taştan We thought that this person, who made these insults to our president and these insulting shares of our party, had been punished and sanctioned. It turns out this person is being protected, Mr. President, this person is continuing his duties as a member of the House of Parliament, who has been assigned another assignment. We've learned of a very harsh insult to the president of the United States by tweeting that this person had thrown yesterday.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0083par0073	I'll turn on your microphone. Go ahead, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0084par0074	It's not an acceptable painting. So it is a heavy attack against the Republican People's Party, beyond a completely unconcerned understanding that this person should be protected and protected by the Parliament, that he should be protected and protected by a person who shares what must be done to our president when it is said to citizens, especially under a picture of Recep Tayyip Erdogan. We can't accept that. I just got off the phone with the Secretary General of the House. This person must be discharged from Parliament personnel immediately. Mr. Vice President, at this hour you're on duty, I've been promised to inform the Speaker of this matter through you. In such a picture, these personnel should not be allowed to be protected or protected under the roof of the House. Any legal, administrative sanction for this person must be carried out immediately. We can't accept this vileness, we can't accept this dishonor, we can't accept the understanding that protects it. I saw fit to report it. My respects, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0085par0078	Thank you, Mr. Sky. The social media sharing of the members of the staff whose name you mentioned earlier was a disparaging share of social media about Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu, which was not appropriate for a public official, was discussed here in the General Assembly, and all political parties showed sensitivity in this matter in the General Assembly; this was a very happy event. However, from the statement you've made, I understand that there is no disciplinary action on these personnel, but an administrative measure has been taken to replace it. If the disciplinary action against this person has not been carried out by the law, the process is wrong, and this person is protected. Wait, I'm getting information right now... Yes, according to the information given by our staff, the President of the Laws and Decisions has now been ordered to implement the punishment of progress, and this disciplinary action has been imposed. So, disciplinary action has been imposed, and from your description, the position has been changed. I believe the proper procedures have been carried out in a disciplinary manner, but, of course, if this person's sharing is a crime, according to the Turkish Penal Code, it is possible to launch a tacit action on the matter by filing a criminal complaint against the republic's attorney. Under the rule of law, this complaint will be filed by whom, and you will be the best to assess it. But see, that social media sharing he did today -- I don't know what it is, what I'm learning from your expression -- if it's a crime, if it's a disciplinary action, there's going to be action on that verb, no doubt. Thank you. Second speaker on behalf of groups on Article 1, Mehmet Emin Adıyaman on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İğdır MP. Here you go, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0086par0092	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party. I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, two of our fellow MPs under arrest have been tried today. One, perhaps the most influential, the most talkative, the most vocal of our people's problems, is our Deputy President, Mr. Çağlar Demirel. The other is Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ, the Democratic Party's Co-Chair, who received 6.5 million votes in Turkey and is the third largest party in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. In the trial of our two fellow MPs today, they have decided to continue their arrest. Of course, from the very beginning, we have repeatedly stated that the practices against our MPs and our party are contrary to the Constitution and the existing legal order. The legal system is seriously under the power of political power, although the Constitutional amendment has not yet taken place, and we have said that every time. Again and again, from this bench, despite the fact that the Constitutional Court has made a statement in the past concerning arrested lawmakers that law enforcement cannot be prevented by arrest, this is a clear, binding decision by the Constitutional Court, which is in accordance with the law, unfortunately, is ignored in the legal understanding of practices against the People's Democratic Party, and is taken away from execution. Look, Mr. Ferhat Encu, one of our arrested MPs, who made us happy, was released yesterday. Now, despite the shy decision made by the local court regarding Mr. Ferhat Encu, although the Constitutional Court did not place its presence in this drink, Ferhat Encu, who had lost 34 people in Roboski (especially in Roboski) was attacked on this stand by the most outrageous charges, which did not seem to have occurred in the region by the power to be subject to the attempt to lynch him. Our Ferhat Encu friend was released yesterday, and I hope, I hope, if there is any sense of shame, shame, shame, shame, and shame in that time, if there is any shame in the court's decision by this local court, which does not comply with the nature of this bench. Look, aside from the attitude of the courts that are under guardianship and double standards every day, even the court that made this shy decision yesterday in order to evacuate Ferhat Encu, it says on the grounds that the defendant has spent enough time in detention... (I mean, we've had enough time, he's had enough time, he's had four months.) What else? The second reason is the current case of evidence... which means that our friend was arrested for four months, although there was no change in evidence from the day he was arrested in his case today, the current case of evidence... So based on the current evidence, there's no reason to arrest him. So, what's he been in for, like, four months? Again, the possibility of a change in character and character of the accused's alleged crime. So, if there's a chance that there's a change in the quality and nature of the crime against our friend, the court can see that in four months? For four months, the judge can't assess it? The most serious is that since detention is expected, which is the desired result, the result can be continued with forensic control, as well as with judicial control, in order to determine that the desired outcome will be achieved, and he is evacuating our friend. So, I'm asking you, what crime has Ferhat Encu committed, beyond his speech, or speech in the legislature activities, anything more than words? What evidence are there in their files beyond what our co-Chairs, Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, Figen Yüksekdağ and our fellow arrested MPs have said, and what is their legal status different from this decision on Ferhat Encu? There's no difference, but Ferhat Encu will be evacuated, one or two of our friends will be evacuated. On the other hand, our friend, Coral Danış Beştaş, who has taken the most words on the constitution, on behalf of freedom, on behalf of our people, on behalf of democracy, on behalf of a democratic constitution, in order to be silenced in the process of this referendum, while one of our MPs is being evacuated, perhaps one of our most talking MPs will be taken instead of another. People's Democratic Party is thought to be silent, to remain discreet, but our party's spokesman, Mr. Ayhan Bilgen, a second Selahattin Demirtaş, without leaving any gaps, such as Figen Yüksekdağ, is expressing our party's view, philosophy, efforts for democracy, peace, freedom, this time he is arrested with political saiks to silence. Look, Figen, do you know what our Co-Chair is being charged with today? In a speech to Mr. Yüksekdağ, I respectfully honor the martyrs of peace and democracy... the sentence is to honor the martyrs of peace and democracy. In the indictment prepared by the prosecutor of the republic, who served as a trigger for political power, those who were martyred for peace and democracy, those who were martyred for freedom, those who were martyred for justice, for rights, for justice, for organization propaganda. Yes, Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ today is Van 2. He's on trial for that promise at the High Criminal Court. As long as there is persecution on this stand in every area, in every street, in any part of the world, as long as there is dictatorship, as long as there is fascism and there are peacemakers, Democrats, lovers of freedom who resist it, as long as there are martyrs, we will bow not once, but a thousand times, a hundred thousand times before them, and we will remember them with respect. We will not only bow to Turkey, but to those who seek freedom, peace and brotherhood, wherever they may be in the world, but to those who do so, and to remember them. Dear friends, it seems clear that the AKP considers everyone who is not its own enemy. Look, we lived together, as brothers, with our citizens from Jaferi, who lived and grew up half the village Iğdır and Kars -- we lived together, our fathers, our grandfathers, in the same mosque as the citizens of Jaferi -- and they were broadcasting two television channels for the faith of our citizens of Jaferi -- rather, 14 TVs and Channel 12. They have no political activities, no political lines, all they do is publish the beliefs of our Jaferi citizens.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0087par0101	I'll turn on your microphone, complete, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0086par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Jaferi has been shut down in order to learn the pure beliefs of our citizens, the safety and organizational relationship of the state, the opinion of their scholars, their teachers in their own beliefs, that has nothing to do with politics, any party, any organization, the two channels for pure Shiaşah, the acts of Jaferi, the 683 Act of Law, and the reason is that TV 14 and Kanal have to be honest with which terrorist organization is involved, and that is the reason: the security and organization of the state. Otherwise, Jaferi must apologize to our citizens and allow both channels to be opened at once. It's an outrage. This is a dictatorship. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's a sectarian understanding. I say this is of no use to our people, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0088par0107	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman. The third speaker on Article 1 is Muharrem Men, Çanakkale MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Man.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0089par0111	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the 46th Amendment bill. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, the government, unfortunately, loved the State of Emergency and coup law. You know, the State of Emergency arrangement of the Constitution, which is part of the 15th Amendment of our Constitution, and, again, the regulations for the immunity of the provisions of the State of Emergency of the Constitution in Article 147, shall be exempted from judicial control of the Constitution of September 12th, a typical application of the Constitution of September. So it wasn't in our previous constitutions. You've always criticised the Constitution of September 12th and the coup law, but at the moment you're here today, unfortunately, you're in a tight grip on coup law. The State of Emergency will be applied to the state, not to the nation. But, unfortunately, today you're implementing the State of Emergency in an illegal, arbitrary way. Journalists are being expelled from prison, scientists, academics, and opposition is wanted to drown. Yes, you destroyed freedom of thought and expression and freedom of the press in the process. Dear MPs, why is Ahmet Şık in prison, why is he under arrest? You have arrested Ahmet Şık and all other terrorist organizations. If the July 15 bloody coup attempt had been successful, the coup attempt would have been to arrest Ahmet Şık. And unfortunately, Ahmet Şık is also under arrest and in prison today. You know, Ahmet Şık can't even write letters in prison. Yes, he can't even write letters, he can't even write letters to his loved ones, and he can't even get letters from outside. It is neither incompatible with extraordinary circumstances nor incompatible with human rights, with conscience, with justice. Like we always say, you can lock people up, but you can't lock up thoughts, ideas. Dear MPs, on February 15th, the European Council's Human Rights Commissioner issued a report, a memorandum on freedom of speech, freedom of speech and freedom of press. Again, unfortunately, we've been subjected to severe criticism. And the state of the Republic of Turkey is rapidly losing its dignity in the world, and we certainly don't deserve this painting. You said, "We will do and lift the State of Emergency within forty-five days." Again, if the Constitutional Amendment goes to the referendum, we will remove the State of Emergency. You have forgotten these words. It is a serious mistake to change the Constitution during the State of Emergency. Today, look at the advanced democracies, in many European constitutions, under the rule that the State of Emergency cannot change the constitution. The main task of the political institution is to solve the heavy problems of citizens. Let's see the picture today: Today our citizens owe the banks credit cards and consumer loans a total of $424 billion, 424 quadrillion with old money. And again, let's look at the interest that our citizens paid to banks -- many of which are our very low-income citizens -- last year's interest is 48 billion liras, 48 trillions in old money. The government is seriously struggling with the interest lobby, supposedly. 26 million executive files are in trouble right now. That's the trouble our citizen's having. Of every four college students, one is unemployed. The youth unemployment rate has increased by 3.5 points, according to the latest official figures, and is currently around 22.6 per cent. With our citizen's basic severe problems, our peace and tranquility is more seriously threatened than ever, and all you have to worry about is the bossy hyper presidency system. With an offer not seen in any democratic system in the world, we go to the public, to the people's discretion. You returned to the nation before November 1st. You told us to give back power alone. You said, "You've always told the nation the stability alone." And the nation trusted you, and gave you power alone. What happened after November 1st? Terror, violence, chaos grew rapidly; the economy began to collapse even faster. So I'm afraid power alone wasn't enough to solve problems alone. In the course of a political party's kitchen, or rather, you have prepared a constitutional amendment proposal in the kitchen of the Palace, and we are going to the nation. You said, "The nation will decide." You said, "The nation will say yes" or "No." You said, "Don't be afraid." After that, you began to associate those who said "no" with terrorism, and you threatened the nation. Turkey doesn't deserve them, precious MPs. We need peace, brotherhood, justice, peace, and you couldn't do it, but I'm sure our nation will, on April 16th. In the 2010 referendum, the people trusted you, and they said yes, but you abused the trust you received from the nation, and you led the country into a disaster; you handed over all the institutions of the state, the judiciary to one community, the gang, and you prepared the July 15 coup attempt. Yes, July 15th is responsible for the coup attempt, unfortunately, the relationship between the past and the past, which is very clear. You have abused the freedom of religion and conscience guaranteed in the Constitution, and you have confused holy religious feelings with state and politics. Again, you have ignored the integrity guaranteed in the Constitution, the quality of public officials, and you have delivered the state into dishonest hands, and you continue to make the same mistakes. Look, you're saying that the presidency is going to take us to better places. Now I want to give you some data. Let's take a look at the countries according to the United Nations Human Development Index. I'm going to count the top 10 countries. Norway, the parliamentary system, the national income per capita, $74,000; Australia, in the 2nd place, the parliamentary system, the national income per capita; Switzerland, the parliamentary system, 80 grand; Denmark, the parliamentary system, $51,000; Holland, Germany, Ireland, the United States, Canada and New Zealand; the first 10 countries. Look, nine of the top 10 countries in the world are run by a parliamentary system, which is run by the presidential system, which is the state system and its own corporate philosophy. Let's look at the last 10 countries in the world: at least 10 countries in the world, Mali, Mozambique, Guinea, Burkina Faso, Burkina, Burundi, Chad, and not one of them is run by a parliamentary system. Of the 10 least developed countries in the world, six are headed by the presidency and four others by the presidency. Dear lawmakers, there aren't a single democratic country in the world that's passed through the parliamentary system into the presidential system. I'll tell you what's past, they're already run by an authoritarian system. The countries that have moved from parliamentary system to president in the world: Burundi, Ghana, Afghanistan, Malawi, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, Sudan, Zimbabwe. Yes, that's what you want to add Turkey to, I'm afraid. There are eight countries in the world from the parliamentary system to the presidency, all of which have fallen into ruin; seven countries in Africa, and one in Afghanistan. People will never, ever allow you to bring Turkey between these countries, we trust our nation. Look, all the data, all the democratic developments in the world, and our political history is telling us that we should actually move on by developing the parliamentary system, by strengthening it, but you imposed it, and we're going to our nation. After the July 15 bloody coup, the State of Emergency was declared on July 20th, and again a heavy blow to democracy was struck, and a constitutional amendment was made in the kitchen of the House, Ashliye, in Fivepepe. Yeah, I wonder if that's a coup d'état. The nation will never allow its sovereignty and its sovereignty to be transferred to the Palace. It will also save the sovereignty of the people, its sovereignty, its sovereignty, its determination, and its judgment. Have a good, good, good day to all of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0090par0129	Thank you, Mr. Man. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 1 is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu, Hatay MP. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0091par0136	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the bill in which ratification is appropriate. I salute your high council. Dear MPs, as I begin to speak, I wish to express my condolences and patience to our soldier, who was a martyr in recent operations against the PKK's terrorist organization in the Hatay Amanos Mountains, to the precious family of our martyr, to his relatives, to the Turkish Armed Forces and to the great Turkish nation. Mr. President, when we look at the bilateral agreements, we see that some of the issues on the agenda are energy agreements. One of the priority conditions for being a country with a say in the world is, without a doubt, to have sufficient energy resources and to be able to use those resources correctly. The countries implementing energy policies correctly stand out in the international competitiveness, while energy-dependent countries have to be dependent on both economic and political policies. In recent years in our country, wrong energy policies based on gas and oil imports by AKP governments have increasingly increased energy dependency, the consumption rate of production has declined, the high smuggling and loss rates have not been drawn to acceptable limits, the construction of nuclear power plants has not been initiated. In recent years, however, local and renewable energy sources have not been evaluated enough, as the oil and gas lobby in our country has increased. For this purpose, the measures for the production of the country's resources have not been taken, the RD in the field of alternative energy resources, investments have not been encouraged, the thermal-generated power generation plants have been renovated, the addiction to natural gas has increased, our water sources in hydroelectric production have not been used enough. In addition, energy efficiency in our country has not been increased to the expected extent. Unfortunately, consumer awareness of the distribution of electricity energy and the prevention of the missing and fugitives, the development of the technology used and energy savings has not been created. After the privatisation of electricity distribution companies, illegal electricity in some distribution areas and cities has not been prevented, the illegal electricity price used in some cities has been imposed on honest citizens as a burden on all of our citizens and is imposed on them as a punishment. Enhancing energy production and efficiency in our country, which will grow more energy needs in the future, providing energy supply security, and encouraging investments in renewable energy resources will inevitably be accelerated. As a country, the country needs to achieve the following goals by establishing a national energy policy within its long-term energy strategy: reducing external dependence on energy raw materials, maximum assessment of coal and renewable energy sources, increasing the diversity of resources and resources in energy imports, and implementing energy supply in an effective way without interruptions and adequate fulfillment. There must be concrete steps to solidify energy supply security. In energy planning and international agreements to be made, supply security must be strengthened by the diversity of resources and countries. The number of gas storage sites, storage and daily injection capacity should be increased, creating high reserves against extraordinary conditions and seasonal fluctuations. Proper and urgent measures must be taken to reduce the share of natural gas in electricity production to a reasonable rate. In order to increase the share in energy production, a comprehensive renewable energy strategy must be created, effective incentives and regulations for further assessment of wind, solar and geothermal resources in electricity production must be implemented immediately. The construction of hydroelectric power plants must take a new approach that monitors the sensitivity of society. Under Basin planning, a follow-up should be done in the projecting phase of projects that risk destroying the ecosystem. Dear lawmakers, Turkey launched the Renewable Energy Resources Law in 2005, and at this point it has come a long way to pave the way for investments. In particular, in recent years, private sector investment has increased in wind turbines. The work in geothermal continues. Turkey is still at the top of the road on environmental issues. Our country, which is a new member of the Kyoto Convention, seems difficult to reach the criteria promised by the EU. In order for Turkey to fulfill these commitments, the first must produce fewer emissions by implementing the rehabilitation of existing coal plants; and the second, our country, which is rich in hydrogen, geothermal, wind and sun, must carry out its policy to benefit more from these areas. Turkey adopted the Law on Energy Efficiency in May 2007. With this law, it was intended to be used efficiently from the production of energy sources to the consumption of energy resources, which unfortunately did not reflect much. Most power plants are run on minimum efficiency, as is our country, which is 65 per cent dependent on natural gas, looking for alternative suppliers. We share the same fate as the European Union in outside dependency, which brings our energy supply safety policies closer together. In our country, the number of missing fugitives is still very high, and the content of the laws made by governments for energy efficiency and renewable resources is partially adaptable to the European Union community acquish, and the legal framework for nuclear energy is not fully adequate. Mr. President, I'd like to talk a little bit about the situation in our country where farmers and especially Hatay farmers, who have paid for their living in the fertile Amik Plains with hard work and hard work. As far as the press is concerned, the farmer's debts will be delayed. No matter what its scope, the loan delay must be watered down and the electricity debts added. Apart from debts to agricultural loans and Agriculture Bank, there is no doubt that debt to State Waterworks or irrigation units and electricity debts to TEDASH are required to be postponed. Hatay farmers expect to hear from the government on this matter. For this reason, the farmer cannot afford the increase in prices of the farmers' basic inputs - diesel, fertilizer, seeds, and medicines. Today, diesel 4.60 liras rose from 900 liras to 1,300 liras before Christmas; 18-46 DAP fertilizers rose from 1,100 Turkish liras to 1,600 Turkish liras, and three 15 soil fertilizers rose from 850 Turkish liras to 1,300 Turkish liras. So there was a 30 percent increase in prices, 40 per cent in terms of prices from December before New Year's. When we look at things like corn, cotton, carrots that are often planted in Hatay, the cost of an acre is between 300 and 400 lira in wheat, 500 to 600 in cotton, 1,500 in melon, 400 to 500 in corn. Under the circumstances, the farmer is unable to repay his labor. If we don't move to Turkey, which has been produced by Turkey, if we don't prepare a new production reform, it won't be possible to ensure stability and economic growth. Dear lawmakers, when assessed by July 15th, all traitors who refer to Turkish nation's will and future must be cleared. As the National Movement Party, we have our full support, but in this case, the separation of the guilty and the innocent...
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0092par0146	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Ahrazoglu, complete, please.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0091par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. It is imperative that the government listen, take note, and give them a solution to the intense disturbances and calls that the guilty and the innocent are involved. The original lining should not be created by slanders and hidden witnesses that are not specified by concrete evidence, but should not be given the opportunity for new resentment and Turkish hostility in society. It's also our desire as the National Movement Party to get through this mess quickly without taking the law of the oppressed, defying persecution and injustice, disobeying the Constitution and the law, delaying justice. However, if there is a criminal, it should be made clear what he is accused of. In particular, the public expects a clear answer regarding the members of the council of the peace in the dorm. The criminal says he must know his crime and defend it according to him, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0093par0151	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. The second speaker on the matter, Toron Köse, Corum MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0094par0155	Mr. President, I'm going to discuss the bill on ratification of the international agreement. Of course, there's some international agreements to be discussed. My dear friends, one of our biggest complaints has been accepted, especially a Constitutional Amendment proposal that leads to one man on the subject of the Constitution. If we could look at the international reflections of this, a history in the past, briefly. For example, consider our dealings with Israel. Our relations with Israel, along with the incident with the incident with the incident with the Blue Marmara ship, had become a dead end. At that time, the prime minister of the period had made statements about the current President, Blue Marmara. Their first statement was, for example, something he said on July 16, 2014, what did he say? They take their anger from a humanitarian charity. It's a charity that brings food to the babies from Gaza and the Blue Marmara, medicine, and risk death for that. What do you want from him? He said on July 16, 2014. After that, one day later, on 17 July 2014, the Israelis have a grudge against this humanitarian organization because of the Blue Marmara. Pennsylvania has a grudge against this humanitarian charity. He said at that time, in 2014. We came to 2016, and he felt the need to soften relations with Israel. The only man who gets nervous first, hardens, ten members of the humanitarian organization inside the Blue Marmara die. If it is asking permission from authority, we are the authorities and we have allowed it. The first, again, the 2014 speech. In his statement, two years after 2014, he makes a statement again. When he arrived in 2016, did you get permission from the Prime Minister of the day to take such humanitarian aid from Turkey?
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0095par0161	Yeah, that's exactly what happened.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0094par0162	The Prime Minister of the period, when he makes this statement, is the President. Well, they signed a $20 million deal because of the Blue Marmara. With this $20 million, we brought Israel to its knees. They tried to convince our 80 million oppressed people in Turkey. So, was it compensation, Israel, or was he on his knees? When we look at this clause of the agreement, when we look at the 20 million-dollar compensation clause, it's not the compensation, it's the grace, it's the money that's paid without debt, it's the money that's paid even though it doesn't have to. Look, if we look at what the one man we want to come up with the Constitutional Amendment has done without changing it, we'll see it all better. My dear friends, let's continue with foreign relations again, Syria. Now, what did we want in Syria? There was dictatorship in Syria, and there was Assad's regime. The Assad regime may be the world's most dictator, the dirtiest regime, but it's an independent country. Is this the way to confuse the internal affairs of an independent country with tanks, cannons, rifles, or them, some sectarian terrorist organizations there, some Islamic terrorist organizations, by doing logistical support? For example, now, again, Mr. President's Chief Counsel Ilnur Riot. I would especially like to say this to our country citizens and to the National Movement Party members, Ilnur has made a statement to the New York Times a few days ago. What did the Chief Minister say? Turkey can tolerate a Kurdish canton in the northeast of Syria. I especially want to address our nationalist citizens, our nationalist Movement Party citizens, of course, to address all 80 million people who are sensitive in Turkey. Again, he went on and not only that: couldn't the PYD have been a Barzani? Barzani's relations with Turkey are magnificent. Look, can the Chief Minister make such a statement -- this is Ilnur Çivik -- with the permission of Mr. President, at least the news, without its owner? If you were going to get to these points -- I'm not arguing the accuracy of this statement, the error of this statement, or the accuracy of the work with the PYD, or the tolerance of the canton there, not to mention the fact that it's wrong, but -- if we were to get to this point, why would there be a peaceful way to have dozens of millions of people from their homes, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people dying, and hundreds of poor Turks dying there, too? You've lost your mind. I'll hold Friday prayer in Emevi Mosque. You won't be able to perform Friday prayer now as the conqueror of Damascus, the Syrian conqueror, but if necessary, perhaps you can make Assad's friend again as the President of Assad. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, look, where one man in international relations brings us: Today, Turkish Airlines announced $6.5 billion in damage the other day, its profit in the previous year is about $1 billion, which is about $4 billion in today's money. A year later, 12 months later, he gave me the balance sheet, 6.5 billion damages. Why is that? There's only one reason: your foreign policy in Syria has provoked terrorism in Turkey; one is the fall of a Russian plane. Look, a Russian plane could be shot down, a mistake could be made, not a Russian plane crash. The issue is that after the Russian plane crashed, the Turkish Airlines today had to explain 6.5 billion damage due to your indiscriminate statements and 4.5 million tourists from Russia. I mean, the damage that one man did to our country doesn't stop counting. Now, basically, there's a lot to talk about. We're in the final stages of freedom of the press, so here's the revenue distribution, the point of education, but more importantly, what we need to discuss today is the public vote on April 16th. The People's Committee says that you missed the public's information by not bringing the television into the commissions, and that you took the television cameras off after 7 p.m., and that you only kidnapped the citizens. Well, if they say no, we say yes. How do you know that you say no? Are you still negotiating, are your relationships still going on? So, the solution process with the PKK is still under way. (HPP claps) We don't know what he's saying, I don't know what he's saying, does he say no, or does he say yes? And now that God says "Allah is one," will we say "Allah is not one." I mean, can such an explanation be such propaganda, such a mockery of people's minds? Why are you hiding the contents? I'll tell you why you keep the contents: there's no example in the world, there's no successful example. Look, fellas, you're dragging our country on an adventure, you're dragging it on with this change. Hopefully, on April 16th, our discreet citizen, our discreet nation, will not allow it, and I'm as sure of that as my name is the Flood Köse. You're dragging our country into the unknown, into an adventure. Now, what's the main axis of the presidential system? It's a system where forces are separated from certain lines. The forces will be separated by certain lines. Do we have that? The President alone will be able to annul the House. You're saying that, on the one hand, the will of 400 MPs is the will of one person. In essence, both of them have received their legitimacy from the public, and even though the Parliament has a much higher vote from the public, the president may be elected by 35 or 40 per cent, but Parliament will be a place where the whole nation will be represented, more or less. Well, now that they've both taken their legitimacy, their power from the public, why 400 people on one side, and why one person on the other? Is that what this is all about? My dear friends, once again, the President is elected, and we choose one. You know how you say they're elected, appointed? Come to the Constitutional Court. Say to the Imams, they're propaganda in their robes, although... Well, we elected the President. Who picks the vice presidents, all the ministers, and who throws them? The president's throwing it away. They'll all be civil servants.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0096par0174	All the public officials.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0094par0175	Where is your attitude to bless the chosen ones, to bring forth the chosen ones? Well, the President's gone somewhere, so who's going to run point? His assistant. Could it be the groom? Look, I'm not saying that this President is going to make his son-in-law vice president, but can a president who can be elected from now on make his son-in-law vice president? He can do it.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0097par0177	He can make his brother-in-law.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0094par0178	Does it go from father to son when you do it? It'll pass. Look, guys, we've accepted the change from here to the next decade by all of your votes. People won't allow it, but at these points, people need to be enlightened. Again, the trial... look, the Supreme Court elects members of the President, and the President elects all members of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0098par0181	Come on!
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0094par0182	I know you'll object, you'll object. Right, he doesn't pick all of them, he chooses half of them, and he chooses half of them because they get elected on the same day. Look, this has nothing to do with the President. The election on the same day is not in any presidential system. There are two years between each of them. The Senate's elections are also renewed every two years. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] My dear friends, is it possible to expect an independent attitude from such a judgment? Look, in the 2010 Constitutional Amendment, we're going to bring judgment to make independent, unfair, fair decisions. You said, "What happened?" Fetullah Gulen's judgment has troubled you.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0099par0185	Mr. Flood, let those robes be zipped up.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0094par0186	And from now on, if this judgment, this system...
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0100par0188	I'm turning on your microphone, Mr. Köse, complete.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0094par0189	I truly believe in the common sense of the Turkish nation. In this amendment, there's not going to be 51 percent, 52, 55, no, at least 70 percent, no, and I don't have a shred of doubt about it. (Applause from CHP rows) The Turkish nation will not allow this kind of bureaucratic administration, such a presidential administration -- no matter what its name, you would call it the presidential presidency -- but neither the presidency nor the parliamentary democracy, nor the Turkish type, in essence, when we look back on it -- it will not allow that kind of constitution change. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0100par0192	Thank you, Mr. Köse. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, I believe you have a request for a statement according to 60. I'll turn on your microphone. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0101par0198	Thank you, Mr. President. I expressed it in the morning, but I didn't have the decision, and now I have the decision of Mr. Çağlar Demirel, and, you know, I've decided to continue his arrest. Really, we're having days to go back to the history of the law, but also days to go back to the history of the House. In view of the time passed after the decision to arrest, it is said that there is no violation of the right to a fair trial or that there is no longer a state of long imprisonment, so that the defendant is not detained from law enforcement by being deprived of the Parliament's work for a long time. It's really a law freak.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0100par0201	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Kerestecioglu.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0101par0202	Thank you. In the same way, I would like to read from Mr. Idris Bauken's decision that the defendant's defence should be taken, there is no evidence that the defendant should be collected and the defendant should be affected, there is no evidence that the defendant should be a deputy, and there is a judicial control that the Constitutional Court should be observed in the examination of the conditions of the detention of lawmakers in the court of 2013/1272. Today, I really think there should be a serious embarrassment in this House. Yesterday, our Diyarbakır MP, Mr. Bilal Danış Beştaş, submitted a motion, a motion to the Parliamentary Assembly, and asked him: "What do you think of the arrest of a deputy who was a member of the Constitutional Commission during the referendum? He was, you know, a deputy in the Constitutional Commission day and night. I'd like to count their names, and I'd appreciate it if you'd extend my time.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0102par0205	Of course, I'll turn on your microphone, go ahead.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0101par0206	Selahattin Demirtaş, Figen Yüksekdağ, Ayhan Bilgen, Çağlar Demirel, Abdullah Zeydan, Selma Irmak, Nursel Aydoğan, Merkel Danış Beştaş, Gülser Yıldırım, Besime Konca and Nihat Akdoğan. Yes, at the time of the Constitution referendum, our friends are under arrest, and I don't even want to ask for the legitimacy of it anymore, but I really wanted to offer you once again that if we had a little conscience and a sense of the profession, we never agreed that this Assembly would act as if everything was going on normally. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0102par0208	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. On the 2nd article, Ertugrul Kürkcı, İzmir MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0103par0215	Mr. President, dear friends, Parliament is seeking approval for an agreement between Sudan and Turkey to co-operate in the area of hydrocarbons. And I made a promise on behalf of our party. If I want to say in two very simple sentences: no country and no country in the field of hydrocarbons should be co-operated because the consumption of hydrocarbons is essentially causing the environmental collapse, the collapse of ecosystems, the disintegration of ozone layer, the drilling, the contamination of water, the sea, the soil, the decomposition of all living creatures from a habitable world. One of the most important things that humanity has done against nature is it's using hydrocarbons to devour them, actually, to betray nature with what it takes from nature. There's no reasonable reason for this betrayal, but I'd just like to say that based on the fact that humanity is now leaving behind this gluttony that has been so exuberant in Turkey in recent years, in fact, seeing that this crime against humanity continues to be committed as a government policy, we will not be able to ratify it, seeing as it is a government policy against nature. I don't want that kind of deal made. If the Turkish Academy had continued to speak freely and autonomously today, it would certainly have had a saying about this, but unfortunately, since the announcement of the state of emergency, the nightmare, which has collapsed on the university, along with the laws of the law, is pushing scientists to protect themselves from taking responsibility in the public field. Nevertheless, we see together that thousands of academics have endeavored to exercise their rights as scientists with the greatest sacrifice. The result is that 4,478 academics have been expelled from the academy since the announcement of the state of emergency. In fact, Turkey thus beats its own brain with a hammer. Not only do these people contribute to Turkey's intellectual environment, scientific development, the development of the intellectual world and the academic world in general, but all the other people who can feed on them are deprived of it, Turkey is barren in that sense and deserts. However, this weather should not be limited to just 4,478 academics. Those who are under the spell of numbers may say that in a country of 80 million people, 4,478 academics have become or have not. Even if it were an academic, it shouldn't be said that, but does our Parliament know that thousands of people who assume that not only academics but themselves will no longer be tolerated living in this country are leaving Turkey, who have no legal disputes between them and the state? Look, from Turkey to the early 2000s, the migration was around 30,000 a year until the middle of the year. It was mostly for political reasons and mostly for identity reasons and ideological reasons. However, this was relatively stable from the beginning of the 2000s until 2016. Turkey's average annual migration rate has dropped to 6,640. It's a very important fall. In Turkey, it was effective that the universe of thinking, whether blind lame or otherwise, began to be guaranteed by reforms, by changes in the penal code, one way or another, that people from abroad made certain returns from the inside, but in the first ten months of 2016, it increased by about 50 percent to 9,600. Only 9,600 people migrated from Turkey in the first ten months of 2016, and after July 15th, all scientists have come forward to investigate these issues three to four times. Not only to Europe, but also to the United States; not only to scientists, but also to white collars, professionals, and occupational owners are leaving Turkey in mass. Is that not a problem for those who rule Turkey? The number of immigrants to the United States alone is 500. The number of people applying for academic protection programmes in Britain and the United States has increased three to four times in just six months, and these people are now trying to achieve the freedom of scientific expression they cannot find in Turkey. But how can science be done in your own country, in your own land, where you live, with those who speak your own language, or how can science be done in places where your future is in no way specific, where you are sheltered, how can politics be built, how can life be built? Turkey is practically forcing its citizens out of the country. The immediate end of the state of emergency is a fundamental obligation because Turkey is hammering its brain, knitting its own brain, doing its best to make itself ignorant, ignorant, ignorant. In fact, when the government thinks they're trying to save themselves, they commit suicide, but they don't know it. All these pressures, under pressure, at least those who choose to go outside to be able to do science, to maintain their lifestyle, are accused of stealing cans from behind. In fact, people are morally free to decide whether to stay in Turkey or not to stay in Turkey, one is not better or worse than the other, in my opinion. Without exiles, without exile, a story of political freedom has never been written anywhere in the world. Fidel Castro came from exile to start a revolution in Cuba, Lenin from exile to start a revolution in Russia, Gandhi was imprisoned in exile under the pressure of British imperialism. Therefore, exile is part of politics; it is part of the struggle for exile, freedom and freedom; choosing it may be a subject of those who wage political struggles, but I would like to hold a mirror from here to see a government that has never thought that its citizens, its intellectuals, its professionals, its thinkers, its occupations have faced these elections. In every city we go to abroad, at every meeting, at every international institution, we meet with scientists looking for a place to live there, and the sound we hear from all of them is that Turkey will quickly be liberated, and they will return to Turkey, and this country will be liberated, and the development of this country will continue to strive to live as equals and brothers in this country. For all these reasons, I invite the government to address this matter as a very serious matter, to face their actions, to settle accounts, but I do know that they will not do this reckoning in the short term. I'm sure we can make the best of this confrontation on April 16th. I say to all our citizens, to those who have heard me from here, raise your voice, say no to it, say no to it, say no to it, say no. Only then will we all come one step closer to freedom. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit03spe0104par0225	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you three minutes for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit04spe0104par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough meeting in the open vote of all of the 46 rows of the Bill of Law. Now I'm going to put the whole bill to an open vote again. I'll give you three minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I would like to present to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Bill, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Sudan for Co-operation in the Hydrocarbon Area. ▪ Number of votes used : 217 [[x]] The bill is accepted and amended. Good luck. We begin talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of the Covenant for Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Sudan. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been suppressed and distributed by 47 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. It's been a long time since we've had a meeting with the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Sudan. It's been a long time since we've had a meeting. The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey, signed on May 26, 2013, and The Covenant for Co-operation in the Electric Zone between the Government of the Republic of Sudan, has been approved. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, I would like to submit to you the conclusion of the open vote by the Court of the Republic of Turkey and the Officials of the Republic of Sudan to confirming the Co-operation of Consolidation in the Electricity Area. ▪ Number of votes used: 208 [[x]] The bill is accepted and amended. Good luck. We are starting talks with the Turkish Republic government and the Foreign Commission Report, which is in the 14th place, in accordance with the Agreement for Co-operation in the Energy Area between the Djibouti Republic. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been suppressed and distributed by 49 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. It is the decision of the government of Turkey to ensure that the establishment of the government of the Republic of Turkey and the establishment of the State of Turkey will continue in the process of establishing the establishment of the establishment of the Ministry of Energetic Affairs. MADDE 1- (1) 6/12/2012 has been approved of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and The Opposition for Co-operation in the Energy Area between the Government of the Republic of Djibouti. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 1 is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, I would like to submit to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Legislature Charter, where the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Djibouti are eligible for ratification of the Memorandum of Agreement to Co-operation between Energy and the Government of the Republic of Djibouti: ▪ Number of votes used: 213 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. We will begin negotiations between the Turkish Republic of Turkey, the Republic of Greece and the Republic of Italy, and the Court of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of Agreement on Development of Turkey-Greek-Italy Gas Transport Hall. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission's Commission for Industry, Trade, Energy, Natural Resources, Information and Technology Commissions, which are ranked 16th in line with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Government of Pakistan. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the Turkish Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Pakistani Islamic Republic and the Foreign Commission between the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Pakistan and the Foreign Commission between the Government of the Republic of Islam and the Commission of Industry and Industry, Trade, Energy, Resources, Information and Technology, in accordance with the Agreement on Reciprocity and Protection of Investments. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Government of the Republic of Kenya, and with the Foreign Commission Report of the Dair Laws and Foreign Affairs, which are ranked in the 18th place, confirming the Agreement for Investments in Reciprocity and Protection. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 339 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The establishment of Turkish rule and the ruling of the Republic of Kenya will continue to ensure the establishment of the understanding of the establishment of the establishment of the law and the protection of the establishment of the establishment of the law. MADDE 1- (1) was approved on 8 April 2014 in Ankara, with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Kenya. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 3 is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, I would like to submit to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Charter, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Kenya, that Approvement of the Agreement Against Investments and Protection of Investments is appropriate: [[x]] The bill is accepted and amended. Good luck. We will begin negotiations with the 19th-place Turkish Republic Government and the Foreign Commission Report (/388) and with the Government of the United States Government of Mexico, where it is appropriate to ratify the Agreement on Investments Reciprocity and Protection. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 163 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE PROGRESS OF THE COMMUNITY OF ENGLISH COMMUNITY WITH THE COMMUNITY OF COMMUNITY OF THE UNIONAL UNIVERSE ACTION OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE MADDE 1- (1) was approved on 17 December 2013 in Ankara, with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the United States of Mexico. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, I would like to submit to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Court of Justice of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the United States of Mexico that it is appropriate to ratify the Agreement on the Reciprocity and Protection of Investments: [[x]] The bill is accepted and amended, so be it. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Court of Foreign Affairs and the Commission's Commission Report on the Compensation of the Agreement on Reciprocity and Protection of Investments. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the 21st government of the Republic of Turkey and the Bank of Islamic Development Group between Turkey and Turkey and the State Commission Report on Foreign Affairs (535), and the Council of Foreign Affairs shall begin its talks. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 216 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. TO CONTROL THE CONTACT AND PRODUCTION OF REPUBLICATION FOR THE PROCESS OF REPUBLICATION WITH THE REPUBLIC REPLICATION OF TURKEY COMPLICATION MADDE 1- (1) 2/3/2013 has been approved by the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Bank of Islamic Development Group between Turkey and its Member States for Trade and Investments. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, I submit to you the conclusion of an open vote between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Bank of Islamic Development Group between Turkey and the IKB Member States for the Co-operation of Trade and Investments for Co-operation. ▪ Number of votes used: 215 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. We will begin negotiations with the Council of Ministers and the Foreign Affairs Commission Report, which is ranked 22nd in line with the approval of the eight developing countries' economic co-operation organisation. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 215 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE PRODUCTION OF THE PRODUCTION OF THE PRODUCTION OF THE PRODUCTION OF THE PRODUCTION OF THE PRODUCTION OF THE PRODUCTION OF ECONOMIC PRODUCTION ON November 22, 2012, the approval of the Eight Developmental Organization for Economic Co-operation, signed in Islamabad, was approved. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to present to you the outcome of the open vote of the Dair Legislature, where the eight developing countries' economic co-operation organisation has been approved: ▪ Number of votes used: 214 [[x]] The bill is accepted and amended. Good luck. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the State of Sierra Leone, and with the Foreign Commission Report and the Law Bill, which is ranked in the 23rd place, confirming the Trade and Economic Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Sierra Leone. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 338 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. With the government of the Republic of Turkey, the construction of the Republic of Syerra will continue to ensure that the Council of the Republic of Turkey will be established in accordance with the establishment of the Constitution and the establishment of the European Union. MADDE 1- (1) was approved on October 9, 2012 in İstanbul, with the approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Trade and Economic Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Sierra Leone. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 3 is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I would like to present to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Bill, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Sierra Leone, in accordance with the Agreement on Trade and Economic Co-operation: [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. We will begin talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of Agreement for Investments in Reciprocity and Protection between the Government of the Republic of Colombia. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed in 79 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. TO CONTROL THE CONTRIBUTION OF TURKEY COMMUNITY TO COLOMBIA REPUBLICATION TO CONTROL THE CONTROL OF CONTACTIONS AND PROTECTION OF PROTECTION Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Colombia, which was signed in Bogota on July 28, 2014, was approved. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I would like to present to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Bill, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Colombia, confirming the Agreement on Investments' Reciprocity and Protection: ▪ Number of votes used : 217 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. We will begin negotiations between the Member States of Economic Co-operation, which are ranked 25th in line with the European Union of Economic Co-operation and the Economic Co-operation Agency between Member States and the Member States of the Member States of the Union of Economic Co-operation, in accordance with the adoption of the Protocol Against Article 9/7 of the Agreement Regarding Investments and Protection, and the Foreign Commission Report shall begin. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Council of Foreign Affairs (/426), and the Foreign Commission Report (1/426) that Approved Agreement for Investments in Reciprocity and Protection. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 166 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. CONTROLATION OF CONTRIBUTION OF REPUBLICATION WITH THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY, CONTROLATION OF CONTROLATION AND PROTECTION OF CONTINUATION OF THE CONTROLATION OF CONTROLATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF COMMUNITY OF COMMUNITY OF COMMUNITY OF COMMUNICATION OF TURIA MADDE 1- (1) was approved on January 15, 2014 in Ankara, with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I would like to present to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Bill, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, confirming the Agreement on Reciprocity and Protection of Investments. [[x]] The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. We will begin talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Foreign Commission Report on the Co-operation Charter for Trade and Economic Co-operation Between the Government of the Republic of Honduras. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 162 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. CONTRACTION OF TRACY AND ECONOMIC PRODUCTION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TURKEY The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Treaty of Trade and Economic Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Honduras, signed in Guatemala on 1- (1) 13/2/2015. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliaments, I submit to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Bill that the Agreement for Trade and Economic Co-operation Between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Honduras is appropriate: [[x]] The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Foreign Commission Report of the Dair Law, which is in the 28th place, in accordance with the Agreement on Trade and Economic Co-operation Between the Government of the Republic of Nicaragua. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 164 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. CONTROLATION OF TRACY AND ECONOMIC PRODUCTION OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE REPUBLICATION OF TURKEY COMMUNITY AND THE PRODUCTION OF THE PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION AND ECONOMICS The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Treaty of Trade and Economic Co-operation between the Republic of Nicaragua, signed in Guatemala on February 13, 2015. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I would like to submit to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Bill, in accordance with the Agreement on Trade and Economic Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Nicaragua: ▪ Number of votes used : 217 [[x]] The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the State of Palestine, where the Council for Economic Co-operation shall be established. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 165 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. With the government of the Republic of Turkey and the government of the State of the State, the development of the ECONOMIC BUILDING OF PROTOCOLUMIC CONTROCIAL CONTINUATION IN THE ARISM OF THE FILITH MADDE 1- (1) was approved on October 24, 2013 in İstanbul. The government of the Republic of Turkey and the Council of Economic Co-operation between the Palestinian State Government were approved. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Council of Economic Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Palestinian State Government. [[x]] The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. We will begin talks by the Court's Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked in the 30th place, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Guinea, in accordance with the Agreement on the Reciprocity and Protection of Investments. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 201 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. REPUBLICATION OF TURKEY COMMUNITY REPLICATION REPUBLICATION REPLICATION REPLICATION REPLICATION CONTROLATION TO CONTROL THE CONTROLATION OF CONTROLATION AND CONTROLATION OF CONTINUATION OF CONTROLATION OF CONTROLATION MADDE 1- (1) was approved on June 18, 2013 in Ankara. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Guinea has been approved. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The bill is all open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I would like to present to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Bill that Agreement Against Investments and Protection Between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Guinea is appropriate: [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Gambia with the draft law bill and the Foreign Commission Report on Approvement of Investments in Reciprocity and Protection. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 202 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. TO CONTROL THE CONTRIBUTION OF TURKEY COMMUNITY TO GAMBIA COMMUNITY TO CONTINUE THE CONTROL OF COMMUNITY AND PROTECTION OF PROTECTION MADDE 1- (1) was approved on March 12, 2013 in Ankara, with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Gambia. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I would like to present to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Bill, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Gambia, that Approvement of the Agreement Against Investments and Protection of Investments is appropriate: [[x]] The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. On March 3, 2005, we will begin negotiations with the Turkish Republic, signed in Pretoria on March 3, 2005, and with the Foreign Commission Report (the European Union) for the adoption of the Protocol that Abolitions Double Taxation and Anti-Tax Trafficking Agreement. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 236 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. On March 3, 2005, when the President of the Republic of the Republic came to the south with the authority of the President of the Republic, the practice of the United States was adopted on March 3, 2005, and that of the President of the United States of the United States, and that of the United States of the United States, and that of the United States, that of the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, and the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, and the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the MADDE 1- (1) The Protocol, signed in Pretoria on March 3, 2005, has been approved to prevent Double Taxation on Taxes taken between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of South Africa, and to alter the Agreement on Obstruction of Tax Trafficking. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 3- (1) The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I would like to submit to you the conclusion of the open vote on March 3, 2005, on the basis of the ratification of the Protocol, which Changes the Agreement on Double Taxation and Obstruction of Tax Trafficking, signed in Pretoria, between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of South Africa: ▪ Number of votes used : 212 [[x]] The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. We will begin talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report, which is in the 33rd place between the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, to prevent Double Taxation and Obstructing Tax Trafficking and Approvement of the Eki Protocol. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 237 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. It's important that the government of the Republic of Turkey and the government of the Republic and the government of the Republic of the Republic come together, and the government of the United States, and the government of the United States, and the government of the United States, and the government of the United States, and the government of the United States, and the government of the United States, and the government of the United States, and the government of the United States, of the United States and the United States, of the United States, of the United States and the United States, of the United States and the United States, of the United States and the United States, of the United States, and the United States, of the United States and the United MADDE 1- (1) was approved on July 8, 2014 in Ankara by the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, I submit to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Charter that Agreement to Avoid Double Taxation and Obstruction of Tax Trafficking between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam: ▪ Number of votes used: 211 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. We will begin talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked 34, confirming the Agreement on Double Taxation on Taxes taken from the Government of the Republic of Gambia. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed by 240 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION OF THE PRODUCTION OF THE REPUBLICITY OF TOURITY COMMUNITY TO GAMBIA REPLICATION TO CONTINUE THE CONTINUATION OF PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION IN THE UNIVERSE MADDE 1- (1) was approved on 11 February 2014 in Ankara. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I would like to present to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Charter that Agreement on Double Taxation is in order to be ratified between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Gambia: ▪ Number of votes used : 212 [[x]] The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. We will begin talks with Dair Legislature Bill and Foreign Commission Report, ranked 35th in line with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Parliamentary Agreement between the Montenegrin Government. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed by 130 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. REPLICATION OF CONTROLATION WITH THE COMMUNITY OF TURKEY REPUBLIC REPUBLICATION MADDE 1- (1) was approved on 18 April 2013 in İstanbul, with the approval of the Parliamentary Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Montenegrin Government. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to submit to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Legislature Bill, in which ratification of the Consulate Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Montenegrin Government is appropriate. [[x]] The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. Mr. Turan, I see you have a request for the 60th Amendment.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit04spe0105par0553	Mr. President, dear friends, in this week of law, a total of 51 contracts in three days have been enforced. In this precious work, I humbly congratulate our parties, our groups, all of our MPs, our Commission, and your fellow members of the Honorable President and Court and, of course, all of our members of the House. I hope all these legal contracts will be good for our nation, for our government, and good evening.
tbmm-2017-02-16sit04spe0104par0556	[[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] Thank you, Mr. Turan. We begin negotiations with Law Bill 155, ranked 36, and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with Bill 135, rank 37, and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions could not be found after this, the decision was made that it would be 15 p.m. on Tuesday (February 21st 2017) to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the assembly at 00, and I wish you a good evening.
