tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Members of parliament, the Constitutional Commission has been rescinded as the main commission by Ankara MP Senal Sarıhan, who has been transferred to the Women's Opportunity Equality Equality Commission (2/411). It's for your information. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Ismail Kahraman, heads of the Kuwait National Assembly, Marzuq A. The adoption of the General Assembly on its official visit to Kuwait from 16 December to 18 December 2017 to respond to Al-Ghanm's invitation to the event is provided under the 6th Amendment of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the Central Management Budget Law bill of 2018 and the Central Management Act of 2016. According to the program, we'll be interviewing in round one today. The first round includes the presidency of Turkey, the Grand National Assembly, the Court of Turkey, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Council of State, the Office of the Prime Ministership, the Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency, the Secretary General of the National Security Board, the President of the Religious Affairs, the President of the Afet and Emergency Management, the budget and final accounts of the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2018 2) The President's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Court's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Constitutional Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2016 1) Supreme Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Prime Ministership 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2018 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2016 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION 1) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The National Management Budget of 2018 2) The Editor-in-Chief for Religious Affairs 2016 Central Management Final Account E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Final Account for 2016 The commission and the government are in place. Members of parliament, the budget talks have decided that the questions must be asked without justification and the question-answer process for each round is 20 minutes. According to this, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must enter the system. After the talks on the tour are over, the questioners will ask their questions in order of order on the screen. The question will be completed in ten minutes, and the answer will still be given ten minutes. It's for your information. I read the names of the members who took the first round on behalf of their groups and individuals: İstanbul MP Halis Dalkılıç, Bartın MP Yilmaz Tunc, Osmaniye MP Mucahit Dursuoğlu, İstanbul MP Haydar Ali Yıldız, Aydın MP Abdurrahman Öz, Samsun MP Orhan Kırcalı, Afyonkarahisar MP Ali Özkaya, Balıkesir MP Kasım Bostan, Antalya MP Mustafa Köse, Bussa MP Emine Yavuz Göz Köçı, Manisa MP Murat Baybatur, Adıman Sırman, İstanbul MP Adıman Kıman Kımımım Yasımımımımımımımım, Osmanım Taşım Taşımım Yağımımımımımımı, Şımımımımımımımı, Şım Taşımımımımımımımımı. İstanbul MP Edip Semih Yalçın, Mersin MP Oktay Ozturk, İstanbul MP Celal Adan, Osmaniye MP Ruhi Ersoy. On behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group; İzmir MP Musa Çam, İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu, Ankara MP Murat Emir, Ankara MP Necati Yılmaz, Artvin MP Uğur Bayaktutan, İstanbul MP Gürsel Tekin, İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal, İzmir MP Ahmet Tuncay Özkan, İstanbul MP Eren Erdem, Hatay MP Serkan Topal, Ankara MP Senal Sarıhan. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Mersin MP Dengir Mir Mehmet Fırat, Ankara MP Sırrı Süzyya Önder, Mardin MP Mithat Sancar, İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan, Diyarbakır MP Nimethullah Erdoğmuş, Adana MP Bilal Danış Beştaş. In the name of the individuals, in favour of Kütahya MP Isaac Gazel, and against İstanbul MP Barış Yfriend. Now, on behalf of the groups, the first word belongs to İstanbul MP Halis Dalklıç (PARTI Group). Here you are, Mr. Dalkilic. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes. However, my lawmakers, there will be no extension. In particular, I beg you, please, state at the very beginning what you care about most, and then don't try to complete it. I'm not gonna extend the deadline, it's for all lawmakers.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0002par0076	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the presidential budget. I hereby salute the High Council and our beloved nation. Congressmans, as you know, our country has been run and run by the parliamentary system since the Republic's history. The woes of the parliamentary system have been expressed at every occasion in this House, and we've all been through a lot of trouble together. In the past, political party leaders have expressed their frustrations that the parliamentary system cannot carry this country, but they have not been able to take a step forward, nor have they been able to change the system. Government crises, President-President conflicts, coalition problems, economic crises, intervening time-to-time custody centers. Unfortunately, this system has lasted for years, but the greatest price has been paid by our beloved nation. In 2002, indeed, under the leadership of our President, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the EC PARTY, which came to power, signed dozens of major services, and major services were accomplished. Roads, dams, airports; decades of major reforms have been achieved that make our nation smile in education, in health. But if you ask me, what is Recep Tayyip Erdogan's greatest achievement, what is his greatest service to this nation? I would say, without hesitation, that he should bring the government system to this country, a government that doesn't recognize all the responsibilities of the nation after that. We say that there was a system in this country before, where guardians, newspaper bosses, what would the soldiers say, what would the cut say? But now the boss is just the people. It's what the boss said in the presidential government system. The President will be with the public. The president will answer to the public, he will have political responsibility, he will have legal responsibility, and at the beginning of the execution, he is active at any moment, not just as an official office that publishes messages on official days, vetoes or approves laws. We switched to a system that runs for people day and night. So, valuable lawmakers, when we made the decision on April 16th, it wasn't so easy, so -- remember, fresh in our memory -- not only did political parties oppose it, but all the global focus of the world stood up. Sir, how much they loved us, how much Turkey needed the parliamentary system, sir, which was useful to us, despite their campaigns, land propaganda, and the low attack on our President, the nation made the decision on April 16th, and the presidency decided how to govern with the government's system from now on. The terror centers -- remember -- before April 16th, they tried to manage a perception, as if this system needed our President, as if it were necessary for the President, not for our nation, but for the President, but, praise be to God, our nation's leadership, with our president's firm stance, the old system is now behind us. Now, the Honorable Cumhurba... Honourable MPs, the presidential office and our President, are not just presidents of the EC PARTY...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0003par0082	He calls his MPs the President of the Republic.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0004par0083	God forbid!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0002par0084	...we're talking about a position that we need to protect, like a flag, like a nation, like a nation, like a child's eye, like an 80 million children, we're talking about a representation. For him, Mr. President, we are aware of our responsibility, not only as the President of Turkey, but as representatives of a nation, a community of good people, who, on every occasion, side with the oppressed, the victim in the face of the Western civilization, which, unfortunately, all the global centers of the world have built on blood and tears. We say: Our struggle is this struggle, our struggle is our nation's struggle to stand up, the struggle to purge the custody centers. For him, valued lawmakers, it is every one of us who, on every occasion, honors and honours his law around our President, united and united when it comes to the interests of the nation as representatives of this nation, as lawmakers. I wish our presidential budget, our central management budget, well done. I salute you all again, and wish you good work. God be with you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0005par0087	Thank you, Mr. Dalkulic. Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0006par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. We wish for good and successful budget work as the Republican People's Party Group. Of course, Mr. Dalkuluc said that during the April 16th referendum, during which the bench excited him, a number of focal points, traitors, the parliamentary system, were telling him how important it was, and they were saying it was despicable. If there's going to be talk of a scoundrel, it's people who say no after putting the chest in front of the people who say no, they're terrorists. No one's ever done a low-down propaganda. If there is a disgrace, it is to label those who advocate no as terrorists. The second thing is, the dervishe's idea is what it is. Even when he stands in parliament and greets the valued MPs, he says, "Dear President, " he actually lifts up the focus of custody and reveals who they put as sole guardianship. ▪ One state, one nation, one flag, and they came to the point of one address. In the first speech, a mindset that cannot salute Parliament has nothing to add to the country from now on. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0007par0097	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0008par0098	Here you are, Mr. Dalkilic.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0007par0099	My words are twisted and teased.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0008par0100	Here, I'll give you two minutes. Wait a minute, one goal, guys, let's not start the budget like this, let's have everybody on the stand. We'll promise not to pick on him if we have to.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0009par0102	The game's just begun.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0008par0103	Let's not challenge the new tease. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0010par0107	Mr. President, I'm the first speaker, actually, on the first day of the budget. I, to be honest, I didn't think you'd get such a manipulative response when you were speaking.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0011par0108	Oh, what have you done!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0010par0109	Every sentence spoken is a twist in that sense. It's obvious what I'm saying.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0012par0110	It's open, it's open!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0010par0111	It's very clear. Yesterday, our Prime Minister responded here, which one should I correct? He hasn't listened to me since, as if he's talking about something completely different than my conversations at this point, Mr. CHP Deputy President of the Group. I made it very clear that when we decided on April 16th, all the global focus and all the terrorist organisations stood up and opposed it. We didn't just fight the opposition of the political parties here. I said, "I've kept political parties separate in my speech." Two, at this point, it would be an honor to call our president from here, Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0013par0115	Of course you are.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0010par0116	...it is our honor to speak on the stand of this House, which is the seat of 80 million, and to speak in the name of our President. But I said this once, in my speech just now: The President's law is not just a law that should be protected by the AK PARTI. If we're a nation, if we have a flag, if we have a country... we don't say, "Don't fight." We don't say, make opposition, but there are some symbols that make us a nation, the Republican People's Party just don't want to know, unfortunately. Therefore, both our president and our flag, our country and our nation are our eyes. So, in this process, now, in the first day of the budget, it's really on behalf of our nation, and I apologize to Parliament, and I don't apologize to misunderstandings, there's distortions, there's constant distortions. Mr. Free, unfortunately, there are no oppositions here. If you want to oppose, bring something about the country, and if you really have criticism of the work done, talk to them. My respects, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0014par0122	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0015par0123	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0014par0124	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0015par0125	He's made accusations, such as that he didn't listen, that he didn't have the common value, and I want the right to answer.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0014par0126	Mr. Special, one moment... He made it clear that I kept the political parties separate. He said in his speech, that's one.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0015par0128	No, he's talking to me.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0014par0129	Second of all, look, this budget has a tradition. I beg of you. Now, there are many speakers here. The deadlines are short, so that a large number of lawmakers can express their presence. The government will either object or the opposition will object to the speech of every member of parliament from both power and opposition. After every conversation, you know this kind of bullying isn't right. You're a dear friend of ours with the practice of Parliament and experience. Please, I beg you, let's not prolong this. It is your turn to speak, and so will you. I promise for the last time, and I beg you, please don't let us bully you again. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0016par0134	Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are actually very important to the sensitivity you've just put in. I'd already started a conversation that was so provocative, so aggressive, and so unappropriate in the first day of the budget, with one minute of my position and no right to the bench, but when Mr. Dalkuluc gave the answer from the podium, we had to answer from here. There's a fundamental debate, the basic argument is that there was a lot of injustice before the referendum, and then there was a lot of injustice after the referendum, and the public power was not used equally, and the people who used public power in their favor, and the people who were trying to create it in the hegemonic language, and the people who were trying to create it, so you said, "No, the terrorists are the ones who are trying to vote for an aunt's regime on a Sunday?" Those who say no, act together with the terror centers. See, that's where the reaction came from, which surprised you to expect to get a vote in the 70 percent. Turn this wrong. She said: "I have always voted for the AK PARTY. I also loved Mr. Recep, but I also love my daughter-in-law. My daughter-in-law says no. I say yes. Now why has the mother of my grandchildren become a terrorist? Now, if you repeat this mistake here, this one will give you a free personal answer, and it will give you until morning; the Republican People's Party Group will react, not react, whatever we need to react, but what you're saying is that the common values of this country have touched the consciences in the first place. That's what I'm trying to get my attention from. Of course, there's no doubt that the flag, the state, the nation, the country are very valuable to all of us, but if you convert them into hegemonic rhetoric from one side... the last person who tried to do it using the same terms was the Führer. He led Germany, then Europe, and then the world to disaster. Let's get our heads together. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0017par0139	Thank you. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2018 2) The President's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Court's Central Management Final Account for 2016 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Constitutional Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2016 1) Supreme Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Prime Ministership 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2018 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2016 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The National Management Budget of 2018 2) The Editor-in-Chief for Religious Affairs 2016 Central Management Final Account E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Final Account for 2016 The order belongs to Bart's MP Yilmaz Bronze. Here you go, Mr. Bronze. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0018par0190	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group regarding the Presidential budget budget for the Central Management Budget Act of 2018. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. According to our constitution, the President is the head of the state. He represents the unity of the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation as President. The Constitution ensures the implementation of the governing body to work regularly and in harmony with the state body. The presidential elections have always been referred to in our political history, due to crises, coups, the latest crisis has been broken by 367 conditions, our nation has overcome this crisis with the Constitutional amendment, which envisions the election of the president by the public, and have gone to our nation's poll in 2014, for the first time in the history of the two thousand years of Turkish state, it has named the President, the President, for the first time. A system based on custody of the presidential office as a guardianship body on the powers elected by the nation has been broken down into history, the doors of a new system based on national will have been opened. At the same time, the EC PARTI and the MHP have agreed on the Constitutional Change Proposal, which envisions that the existence of a president elected by the votes of the people -- although it does not cause a crisis today -- could lead to future crises -- may lead to future crises -- has been passed on to the Constitutional Change Proposal, which envisions the transition of the presidency into the government system. More than half of the people will have to take the vote to maintain stability in the administration, to bring coalition and government crises to history, and to get power over the government system, which will be implemented from 2019, will no longer be possible to rule with 15 per cent, 20 per cent. The new system is being changed. The separation of forces is over. One man is coming. Although there have been critics of propaganda such as the presidential government system, our republic has been strengthened, our democracy's bar has been raised. In a new system that strengthens the neutrality of the judiciary, distinguishes legislation from running it, the principle of separation of forces is the most important condition of democracy. The president will use the executive authority with his ministers, and Parliament will use the authority to enforce the law, and he will be able to oversee the administration through the rules of control, which are included in the Constitution, and he will be able to investigate the President, his deputies and ministers when necessary. Instead of a president whose transactions are closed to judicial control, who has no responsibility to parliament, there is no credibility in saying that a presidential system that opens all operations into judicial control, which can be investigated, will lead to one-man rule. The new system requires reconciliation because it has the power to renew the re-election; it is a government system that contains the mechanisms of balance and control. There is strong parliament in the presidential government system, weak governments, strong government, quick action, instead of unstable times. Those who fear that Turkey will travel much faster with the new system, those who do not want our country to grow stronger, those who see the growth of our nation's prosperity as an obstacle to its political economics, are actually attacking Turkey in our President's person. Turkey has been 4 times bigger in the economy, introducing our country to the giant projects of the world, giving it the title of the first President of Turkey, the voice of the oppressed and the righteous in every field, which has increased our nation's well-being in every field, and has since won all elections in our republic's history since 2002, in the longest period of time, to become Prime Minister, and in the end, we have managed to break all the traps against him and our country in the past 15 years. Those who cast mud at Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who have crossed all dark plans with the support of our nation, should know that Recep Tayyip Erdogan does not get mud, and those who throw mud at him will get mud on their own. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the budget of 2018 to be blessed, with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0019par0197	Thank you. Osmaniye MP Mujahit Durmusoğlu is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Durmusoglu.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0020par0201	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before we begin, I wish you proud members of the Veteran Assembly the success of their hard and tiring work, the Central Management Budget Law of 2018-2020, to bring blessings to our country and our nation, and salute our beloved nation, watching us on screens. I'd like to talk to you about a few things before we go over the reviews on the parliamentary budget proposal. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're going through a very delicate period of events in our country and in our region. As it has been seen from recent events, the most important stand in front of our region and the scripts for the Islamic world belongs to Turkey, and to our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan. It is well-known by all countries that a strong political, military and economic Turkey will continue to be a guarantee of regional peace and stability. Even though there are those who are uncomfortable with our resurrection, our rise again, there should be no doubt that we will work even harder, without fatigue, without rest, 2023, 2053, 2071, we will walk with great conviction. Dear friends, as you know, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is conducting legislation and control activities on behalf of our nation and is doing its duty to represent our nation. As the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we have put in a lot of work at this time. During this period, our Parliament first made a radical change in the Constitution of 1982. The first amendment in the 177 Articles 1982 Constitution was changed on 19 dates from 1987 to today, the final amendment was adopted on 21 January 2017 and was adopted on 16 April 2017 by the public vote. With this change, after elections on 3 November 2019, our country will be in the presidential government system. Thus, from the 27th term, Turkey's Grand National Assembly will carry out its work on legislation and control, law proposals will be made by our lawmakers, and lawmakers will be able to participate more effectively in legislative activities. At the same time, our country was strengthened by national will, while the public's preferences came first, while the system was stable. Hopefully, with the presidential government system, our country won't have any more government crises. On the other hand, as a result of our intensive work at the Turkish Grand National Assembly, we also changed the Civil Code. On July 27, 2017, the procedures and foundations of the General Assembly were rescheduled in order to speed up legislative activities. Mr. President, what we experienced in Parliament on the night of July 15th, when the people tried to seize the will of the nation, has shown very seriously our need for a fully equipped and functional bunker against any attack and disaster that our Parliament could do without interruption. Experiences have shown that a good refuge is not a waste, but a serious need for democracy, and even a necessity. With a sound decision made by the Speaker of Parliament, he has taken action to meet this need. I also want to thank our Speaker, Ismail Kahraman, for his firm and upright stance on the night of July 15th. He believes it is our duty and our responsibility to give all the support necessary for the site of the bomb's hole in the garden to remind our descendants of the physical and spiritual wound that our Parliament received on that night of betrayal and to ensure that they have democracy, and I hope that the work carried out in 2018 will continue as members of the Parliament's Culture, Arts and Publishing Board. Mr. President, I would also like to stress, as we are in the process of breaking my words, that those who attack our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan will be the capital of the occupation state, who have disregarded the international law laws, slaughtered thousands of innocent Palestinians, who, by our first qiblah, would be the first to stop. The Republic of Turkey will continue to stand by the rights, the law and the oppressed in the wake of its apocalypse. I wish our institutions, especially the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, had a good 2018 budget. I respectfully salute your entire delegation and our valued citizens who are watching us on their screens.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0021par0210	Thank you. The order belongs to İstanbul MP Haydar Ali Yıldız. Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0022par0214	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you, our High Council, and our beloved nation. In the language of our great civilization, we first call human, human honor, human dignity, human peace, prosperity, and security, and above all, our measurement, justice and rightfulness, our immeasurable measurement. In Turkey, in Europe, in Asia, wherever it is, the honor of the people in Palestine, which we are talking about today, in Jerusalem, is our priority, and on this occasion, the right and honor of the 14-year-old Palestinian boy Fawzi al-Junaidi, who is walking around Palestine with a symbol of resistance, of course, is on our agenda. Geography is the fate of a nation. We're in a difficult geography, and we have a civilization that we've produced here for thousands of years as part of this difficult geography, a history and history. We've been here a thousand years, and we know that there's no other nation and a state in this land that has fought as long as we have, and we've seen a system change in the past 16 April to make decisions fast, to enforce them, to ensure our country's existence, its unity, and its survival, to sustain our nation's peace and prosperity forever. In such a difficult geography, we have all achieved a system of decisions that is fast and fast-tracked, executed, and concluded, together with our nation. Someone may put their politics, their goals on the promised land, but from here, I'd like to point out that it's an indispensable land for us, with the power we take from this council bench, from our nation, from our history, from our civilization. Years ago on this bench, when this House made its democratic decisions, when we declared a national covenant, our priorities, our consciousness and our practices were always on this line. Yes, someone will dream through the promised land, but we will have all our resistance, all our strength, all our strength, our unresolved land. So we are a country that exists in a two thousand, two hundred-year-old state tradition, with a thousand-year-old acquish of civilization and a thousand-year-old geography. We will continue to walk together with our values, our values of civilization, our history, our culture, our nation. Today in this geography and on the first page of all law books around the world, justice that is written on the front page of all law books is unfair, the power that is not based on justice is cruel. We have the power, language and political background to explain to those who are in political savings how thousands of years of justice prevails in this land by accepting Jerusalem as a capital or by moving its embassy there. Thus, this decision will not be accepted on the conscience of this nation, on the conscience of this geography, and on the conscience of mankind because it is not based on law or justice. We're discussing the 2018 budget, and I wish you well. We have a struggle to make our budget strong, just like our country. We're fighting all kinds of terrorism, we're fighting economic operations, cyber attacks, political operations, and, of course, we're fighting all kinds of terrorist organizations, such as Å, DEAŞ, PKK, DHKP-C. A strong budget for Turkey, a strong economy, a strong policy... of course, someone will say the economy of war, or the war budget, no, of course we will take every precaution to make sure that our soldier is strong. On the 15th of July, they referred to Çanakkale as the spirit of Malazgirt in 1071, the spirit of unity, the spirit of unity, the spirit of unity, when the history books spoke of this spirit, and referred to the War of Salvation. On the 15th of July, we saw that this spirit is still alive. Aliya Izetbegovic says: "The history of God is where you stand. " A new history is being written, and what matters is where we stand. Tomorrow, the Islamic Co-operation Agency will meet in Istanbul in the Riyaset of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Here, the whole world will see where we stand, how we stand, how we pose a noble, national and native position. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0023par0227	Thank you. Aydın MP Abdurrahman Öz. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0024par0231	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY regarding the budget of the Constitutional Court. The General Assembly welcomes our people and 80 million citizens who are watching us on TV. Since the day the EC PARTY government came to power, we have had the pleasure of discussing the 16th budget uninterrupted. I wish that our 16th budget first brings blessings to our country, to our nation. And I want to thank our nation for the uninterrupted and increasing support they've given us. At the beginning of my words, I would like to briefly express my views on Jerusalem. Jerusalem is the sacred place of Muslims, its first qiblah, the Dome-us-Saharan and the Masjid-i Aksa, and our holy book is in a town praised in the Quran. For us, Jerusalem is what Mecca and Medina are. At the same time, Jerusalem is a common value, not only for Muslims but also for all religious religions, not for religion and faith. When you go to Jerusalem today, when you walk through the streets, you see that it is home to people, places, and places of worship. When you look at it this way, Jerusalem is the common value of humanity. I want to make it clear from here that I did not accept the decision made by the United States of America as a brother who went to Jerusalem and breathed that air, and prayed in Jerusalem, in the Sahara, in the Masjid-i Aksa, in the narrow streets. The United States of America has no decision to move its ambassadorship to Jerusalem, which is clearly contrary to the United Nations decisions, which are not accepted by the international community. This decision will not contribute to the peace of the region and humanity, but only to the unrest of the region and mankind. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have made reforms to improve human rights standards from the first day they took office, both domestic law and international law. The first amendment during these reform movements is the regulation on the adoption of international agreements in case international agreements conflict with fundamental rights and freedoms that entered into force in 2004. After that, it is the right to an individual application brought in in 2010 with a amendment to the Constitution of the Constitution. The right to submit an individual application to the Constitutional Court to citizens on charges of violation of basic rights and freedoms, which have been guaranteed under the European Convention on Human Rights through individual application. As a result of this constitutional amendment, the European Court of Human Rights had about 8,000 applications per year in previous years, while the number of applications was 2,000-2. He's down to 500. Again, through the Human Rights Compensation Commission and other institutions established within the Ministry of Justice, the number of applications has been severely reduced. With these reforms, our country's international law practices have been sought to be respected. As part of the individual application, I would like to briefly draw attention to the decisions made by the Constitutional Court. A total of 171,639 individual applications began on 23 September 2012. The 80,756 is in 2016, and 38,690 is in 2017. A total of 132,847 cases were concluded at the end of 2017. Only 85,458 cases were concluded in 2017. Mr. President, our fellow lawmakers, in the process of searching for rights in our internal law, our Constitutional Court has important decisions to make. The European Court of Human Rights refers to the laws of our Constitutional Court when it is in place. The European Court of Human Rights saw the Constitutional Court as an effective and mandatory application for domestic law. The European Court of Human Rights rejected individual applications for the curfews imposed on the activities of the terrorist organisation in 2016 on the grounds that it came to the Constitutional Court without the use of internal legal means, without application. Again, on the same grounds, he rejected applications related to ا. The latest amendment to the Constitutional Court in 2017 -- the number of members of the Constitutional Court is 15 -- has been lifted from military justice, so the member of the military judiciary has been removed from the Constitutional Court. Again, with the latest amendment, the Constitutional Court has been authorized to elect members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I wish our Constitutional Court budget would bring blessings to our country, to our nation. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0025par0242	Thank you. It belongs to Samsun MP Orhan Kırcallı. Here you go, Mr. Whip.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0026par0246	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group in the section of the Supreme Court budget of Central Management Budget Bill of 2018. I hereby salute you all with respect and conversation. Justice is the foundation of property. Great civilizations have been raised in justice, destroyed by the end of the sun of justice. The great Turkish states established throughout history have also risen above the ideal of justice. Precious lawmakers have been a city in Jerusalem where Jewish, Muslim and Christian people live in brotherhood, while in the last hundred years, tears have not stopped, mothers, children, babies, and international law has been ignored. The U.S. President's decision to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel is a fierce challenge to all humanity and to the United Nations decisions, nothing more than international law undermining them. Jerusalem is our apple of the eye. We will not leave Jerusalem at the mercy of states that have no value but to invade and plunder. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are a legal state of the Republic of Turkey, which is stated in Article 2 of our Constitution. Since 2002, all of our EC PARTY governments have taken steps to develop and strengthen the rule of law on the basis of human rights. The fundamental rights and freedoms of our citizens have been further guaranteed by reforms in the field of law. The amendments, including the Constitution and the fundamental laws, have brought significant innovations to our justice system. While our governments are making these changes, they are also closely monitoring the world's developments, and they continue to develop, taking into account the achievements of the international community. We consider it a historical responsibility to move our justice system further by considering the underlying conditions. Mr. President, the Supreme Court is the oldest and largest institution in the Turkish legal system. From its establishment to date, it has led Turkish law by taking an active role in the establishment of law and the fulfillment of justice. The Court of the Court, founded in the Ottoman Empire on March 6, 1868, is the historical basis of the Supreme Court. We are confident that the Supreme Court, which will celebrate next year's 150th anniversary, will strive to serve its country with sacrifice and to respond to the high justice expectations of society tomorrow. Dear lawmakers, the end of trials during reasonable times is the top of issues that we care about. In the past period, we have all implemented various practices to ensure that our citizens' rights are granted sooner. In charge of these, it has been prevented from stacking files in the Supreme Court by the implementation of the law. One of the things that caused the trial to go on was the lack of expertise. A crucial reform was carried out, as was their secondary legislation, as well as the arrangements made in the Act of Appellates No. 6754. Dear lawmakers, in the face of the coup attempt of traitors disguised as soldiers on July 15th, the Supreme Court and our other judicial institutions, particularly the Constitutional Court, have been on the side of our people and democracy by taking the necessary decisions from the early hours of the coup attempt. This is an important stance in terms of the date of judgment. Mr. President, the budget of the Supreme Court's 2018 budget was planned for an increase of 80 million dollars compared to 2017, at $460m, 437,000. I wish our budget of 2018 to be a blessing to our country, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0027par0257	Thank you, Mr. Whip. Congressmans, the President of the Indonesian House of Representatives' Justice and Legislative Commission and its valued members have now arrived in our Parliament. I welcome them on behalf of all groups, on behalf of the General Assembly. [[Applause]] 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2018 2) The President's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Court's Central Management Final Account for 2016 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Constitutional Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2016 1) Supreme Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Prime Ministership 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2018 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2016 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The National Management Budget of 2018 2) The Editor-in-Chief for Religious Affairs 2016 Central Management Final Account E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Final Account for 2016 Now, it's time for Afyonkarahisar MP Ali Özkaya. Here you go, Mr. Ozkaya.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0028par0312	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, as part of the budget bill of 2018, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group on the budget of the State Department. I hereby salute our General Assembly, our beloved nation, our first qiblah, our eternal and eternal capital, Jerusalem, and all the oppressed. The court was founded on May 10, 1968, after which Sultan Abdulaziz was founded on the principle of dissolution of forces. The Constitution of 1924 has become a constitutional institution with the Constitution of 1961 and 1982. In light of the principle of universal legal values and the rule of rule of law, the main mission of the prosecutor's mission is to make an independent, impartial and fair trial based on human rights, to ensure a final resolution of the court, to carry out the task of consultation and study effectively. The prosecution has two basic tasks: the first is to review the appeals of decisions made by the Supreme Court of Justice and tax courts and to look at cases filed as first-degree courts. The second important task is to give the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers an opinion on the issues necessary and to resolve administrative discrepancies. The prosecutor's budget increased by 19 per cent in 2018 and was $148,922,000. In the last decade, the number of files that have reached the State has increased from 169,924, from about 170,000 to 461,000. The total number of decisions reached in 2002 was 59.800, about 60,000, and in 2016 it increased to 133,000. At the same time, 69 members were raised to 120, while the student judge was raised from 223 to 470, from 348 to 647. So our government has provided all its needs in this process, such as the State's member, the coroner, the staff and the building. It is one of the basic policies of our government to make legal and institutional regulations effective, to increase judicial accessibility, to enable judicial accessibility, to improve the quality of services in the judiciary, to ensure that the judicial norms, the rule of law and the rule of law and the rule of law shall work in the direction required. In this framework, the development and expansion of alternative conflict solutions to reduce the workload of the judiciary has become a priority. On the other hand, it is among our priorities to increase the number of judges and qualified administrative staff, to regulate the universally ethical principles of judicial and administrative staff, to improve their awareness, to address the lack of physical and technical infrastructure, to secure and active administrative judicial services, which have been created in the electronic environment, especially among the judicial bodies, in the UYAP. Speaking of which, I'd like to share with you a few thoughts on the prosecution and the administrative court. Article 141 of our constitution states that all court decisions must be justified. Reason is the spirit, purpose, and reason of court decisions. The justification is a manifestation of the right to a fair trial. On this occasion, it is our greatest desire to publish and write the Court's decisions on a basis that is more than a summary of the laws, the text of the law and the local court's decision, which is a cause-effective relationship, which is satisfying to everyone who reads it. Again, I think it's important to ensure that all high court decisions, including the State, are published in the UYAP environment by deleting personal data with the rank number, an effective social party and the control of the interests. On the other hand, all actions and procedures of the Constitution's 125th Article are subject to judicial control. Besides the amendment in 2010, I do not think the control of the judiciary should be applied more effectively to the administrative judge. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation, wishing that our Court of Appeals, our judges, our employees, and all the saints of our nation, would be a blessing.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0029par0323	Thank you. In turn, Balıkesir MP Kasym Bostan. Here you go, Mr. Bostan.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0030par0327	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the Prime Minister's budget. I salute our High Council. When we look at the long history of the prime minister's organization, shaped by the Turkish-Islam tradition, we see that in Seljuklu, the Grand Court was organized as Prime Minister at the Ottoman State, the Court of State, and the Council of State of Tanzimat. With the establishment of the Grand National Assembly, the government belongs to the Turkish nation. The conclusion of its understanding is that all state powers have been gathered at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In this period, all executive authority of the administration, called the Parliamentary System, has been handed down to the Parliament. In order to use the executive powers, parliament was choosing an executive acting body, the Council of Ministers, in today's sense, and this committee was appointing the current Prime Minister. But in this system, where each minister was elected directly by the Parliament and again the chairman of the House of Acting Regents and each minister responsible for the Parliament, it was not possible for a strong executive body and the Prime Minister to appear. On October 29, 1923, the Organization was declared a republic in accordance with the Constitutional Law, and the 12th amendment was decided to be elected by the President of the Prime Minister and members of Parliament. After the other ministers were again elected by the Prime Minister from members of parliament, the council, which is the Council of Ministers, was envisioned by the President of the Council of Ministers, will be presented to parliament's confidence. These provisions were repeated in accordance with the Constitutional Law of Act 491, dated April 20, 1924, and the Council of Ministers' collective responsibility to Parliament under Article 46 of the Constitution. With this approach from the Constitution of 1924, the event of the Council of Ministers and therefore the prime minister has begun to rise as a politically responsible organisation in the face of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. At the same time, due to the Prime Minister's authority to appoint and depose members of the Council of Ministers, his political power has increased, and this has made the prime minister's organization stronger in the process. The president's position within the system remains second, according to the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister, since there is no political responsibility to parliament. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the 1961 Constitution, have continued to implement the parliamentary government system and have given the Prime Minister a relative advantage within the system by making the Prime Minister the determination and dismissal of members of the Council of Ministers. However, the 1961 Constitution includes many provisions limiting the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers because there is a constitution of response. The 1961 Constitution's relatively neutralising of the executive body and the violence that took place in the late 1960s caused serious problems in the establishment of state authority and public order. This process opened the road to military intervention on 12 March 1971 and military coup on 12 September 1980. Both the changes made in 1971 and the system brought by the 1982 Constitution have resulted in the trend of strengthening the opposite of the 1961 Constitution. For example, with amendments to the 1971 Constitution, the Council of Ministers has been authorized to issue a decree in accordance with the laws of the Constitution of 1982, which has been carried out with the Constitution of 1982, and the Council of Ministers is also equipped with the authority to issue a decree on the state of emergency law. Another significant difference in the Constitution of 1982, from the Constitution of 1961, is that the President has been strengthened within the system. Normally, the presidents, who should only have symbolic powers in the parliamentary government systems, are equipped with vast and comprehensive powers, although there is no political responsibility in our system with the Constitution of 1982. This, in turn, revealed two aspects of the administration, and sparked many conflicts between the President and the responsible Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers. The blocking of the presidential elections held by Parliament in 2007 with 367 freaks resulted in the adoption of a constitutional amendment that envisioned the election of the President by the people to submit to a public vote. Thus, the president, who already has a wide range of powers in the classic parliamentary government systems, has become the main force within the governing body of political power given by direct election by the public. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So it was inevitable that both the 82 Constitution had strengthened the President within the system and that the president had been elected directly by the people, and that the presidential government system would be transferred.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0031par0334	Thank you, Mr. Bostan.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0030par0335	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers wish that the Prime Minister's budget of 2018 would be a blessing, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0032par0337	Sir, can you turn up the volume? We want to know, we have the right to be informed.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0031par0338	Thank you, thank you very much. I told you, dear friends, I won't extend. In turn, it belongs to Antalya MP Mustafa Kose. Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0033par0343	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group over the Prime Minister's budget of 2018. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. At the beginning of my speech, I'd like to mention two things, one of which is a matter of Jerusalem. Jerusalem, the first qiblah of Muslims, the light of our eyes, is, unfortunately, occupying the agenda of the international community as a result of a very wrong decision. Israel began to invade Palestine from 1917, declared its independence in 1948, and on this declaration of independence, the Arabs waged war against Israel, and Israel invaded Western Jerusalem as a result of the war. After the Six Days Wars of 1967, Israel also occupied East Jerusalem. In 1980, Israel declared Jerusalem the capital of Jerusalem, and the United Nations Security Council was convened upon this disastrous incident, and it was declared by the international community that all countries, including the United States, allied with Israel, had declared that Jerusalem and its capital was illegal and that it was not recognized. This decision is still valid, it is valid, it is in effect, and it is not valid, it is not recognised by international law, it is not the decision Trump took alone, it is the capital of Israel. The second issue, dear friends, is growth numbers, a beautiful and joyous development for our country. In the first quarter, 5.2 per cent, 5.1 per cent in the second quarter, our country, which grew by 11.1 per cent in the third quarter, has become the largest growing country in the world, and its top place among the G20 countries is really on the agenda of the world. We congratulate everyone who's passed the job, express our congratulations. The prime minister's job, as it is known, is to provide the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers with all the support for the implementation of the general policy of the government under the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey and the rule of law, to establish effective co-operation and co-ordination among the ministries, and to ensure that the state body operates in a orderly and harmonised manner. On 21 January 2017, after the presidential government system was adopted by our citizens at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 16 April 2017, the Prime Minister's office has now launched a intensive work to enforce the laws of integration. In this area, 15,924 primary and secondary legislation has been scanned by the General Directorate for Prime Ministerial Laws and Decisions and the Directorate for Development and Publishing, and preparations are being carried out for their transfer to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The General Directorate of Laws and Decisions has concluded 1,224 decrees, has referred 85 draft laws to the presidency of the Turkish Parliament, has issued 16 extraordinary conditions. Our General Directorate of State Archives provides an average of 35,000 research services per year in accordance with the requirements of the TSE Quality Management System. To date, images of nearly 32 million valuable archive documents found in the Republic and Ottoman archives have been transferred to electronic media. As of late November 2017, about 1,800,000 applications were submitted to the BIMER system, making it a brand value of communication between UNER citizens and the state. The Prime Minister's Office has asked to participate in 263 cases in 53 districts on charges of attempting to destroy constitutional order in a treasonous coup attempt and attempt to destroy the Republic of Turkey's government. As part of the electronic public information management system under the presidency of the Prime Ministerial Administration, all of our institutions have been allowed to enter the service inventory management system, so for the first time, an inventory of all the services offered by the public has been issued. In the co-ordination of our prime ministership, the services of all ministries are being transferred to the e-government system and the quality of the services of our citizens from the state is being increased and bureaucratic obstacles are being eliminated as much as possible. As of the end of 2018, all state services will be transferred to the e-government. In order for the work to continue quickly, meetings are held with the undersecretaries of all ministers in the co-ordination of the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister every 15 days. I hereby wish our Prime Minister's budget to be well-funded, with all due respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0034par0355	Thank you. In turn, it belongs to Scholar Emine Yavuz Körtın. Here you go, Mr. Yavuz.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0035par0359	Mr. President, dear MPs, I would like to begin with the words of Nuri Pakdil. I have one half of my heart in Mecca, the other half in Medina, Jerusalem on top of it. Yes, we have Jerusalem in our hearts. I hope that the states who favour world peace will not be silent for any more suffering in Jerusalem, where Nizar Kabani is called the most painful of all cities. The Public Control Agency is a constitutional institution founded on the understanding that the state exists for the nation, whose roots are present in our civilization. Our ancient civilization is a civilization built on its principle, that emphasizes the right to a servant, justice, and mercy. It is a key bridge between the public and the citizens, based on law, human rights, justice, and rights, which is shaped by the experience of the organization, the foundation, the foundation, the culture of the foundation, the dârül-adl, the Court of Human Rights. The administration continues its work to improve the quality of service, to establish the principles of good governance, to improve human rights, to maintain the rule of law, to promote the culture of seeking rights; to contribute to the creation of a transparent, accountable, human-oriented government. Advice decisions also contribute to the quick access of citizens to justice with friendly resolutions. Human rights, children, women, disability rights. Regional meetings were held to promote the right-seeking culture and boost awareness; governors, mayors, mayors, county managers; citizens, NGOs were combined, and ombudsmanship clubs were launched at universities. Meetings with ombudsmans and NGOs of their countries were planned to protect the rights of Turks living abroad. The International Symposium of Migration and Refugees took place at the International Ombudsman's Conference, attended by ombudsmans of 50 countries and representatives of human rights. All these studies, which guide human service, have been made possible by the human-oriented reforms of the EC PARTY, which are based on human-oriented, state-national integration. Thankfully, you are strange in a private home, a pariah in your native land. As expressed in the verse, the idea of a nation's nation's faith, its clothing, the idea of a nation's algebraic state is in the past. Today, there's a nation that owns its state, a nation that serves its nation, a nation that loves its people, and we've had the most concrete example of that on July 15th. That night, I know no higher power than the power of the nation's elected leader, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Let's gather in national squares. Despite all differences with the call, our nation has become one heart, its will, its country, its state, and the scripts that have been prepared have failed. There are still those who seek new scenarios, but what's sad is those who agree to be extras in these dirty scenarios, who act as spokesman for Turkish enemies, terrorist organizations, blind eyes, deaf ears, tongues, blindness, genius, even treason. Those who continue these dirty scenarios must know that this nation, with its state consciousness, will tear up the scripts, break down the games, as our President calls them. I wish our government and all of us all the best for the budget of the Public Control Agency. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0036par0366	Thank you. It is now time for Manisa MP Murat Baybatur. Here you go, Mr. Baybatur.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0037par0370	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group regarding the budget proposal for 2018 of the National Intelligence Agency's Undersecretary. I salute you all. As it is known, we're going through a process where global conflicts have escalated, alliance relations have changed, and regions have been tried to reshape. In the process, domestic and external threats to Turkey are also increasing day by day, with asymmetrical threats, such as sensory operations and cyber attacks. The PKK is used as a subcontractor by regional and global forces in Syria and Iraq, where terrorist organisations try to take over the state, the PKK, the DEA, the DEA. Bringing with it new threats with political, economic, social and cultural effects, this requires a holistic approach to conflicting threats and makes it vital that the National Intelligence Agency act effectively. Dear lawmakers, it is only possible for a strong intelligence agency to successfully exit the process where our country faces serious trials. Because in today's internationally influential countries have increased human resources and technical infrastructure investments every year to make intelligence services more effective in order to gain superiority among their peers. Thus, not only do they eliminate threats against themselves through intelligence agencies, but they also develop activities and controls in the field of interest. Dear lawmakers, our MIT Undersecretary, who is aware of our national security and responsibility for our interests, also operates in an effort to improve its activity abroad and abroad through its extensive skills in the context of technical and human intelligence. Momentary intelligence sharing of the intelligence agency's technical and satellite analysis contributes significantly to significant losses to terrorist organisations. Successful work carried out by the MIT Undersecretary at the point of acquainting the activities of the (PDY) is a concrete achievement of investments in the field of technical and human intelligence. As a matter of fact, the system's secret communication systems and users have been decoded by breaking the code to the ByLock system. In addition, the MIT Undersecretary, which has provided the extradition of many fugitives to Turkey, has made significant contributions to the fight against the organisation by decryption of the organisation's security structure and its private imams, which have led the law enforcement force completely and completely. As it is known, our Intelligence Agency, which is responsible for carrying out other tasks on the Council of Ministers and the National Security Council, is also active abroad against increasing and diversifying threats to our country's domestic and external security. In this scope, he successfully performs important tasks, especially given to him in Syria and Iraq, by providing effective and rapid coordination with executive institutions. With this reputation, the success of the activities carried out abroad by our National Intelligence Agency, which eliminates not only the gathering of news but the source of threats and embraces a more effective way of working intelligence diplomacy in areas the state needs, is critical under our national security and the interests of the country. Therefore, we would like to once again emphasize that the budget of 2018, which we plan to increase in comparison to the previous year, is critical for the development of our Agency's capabilities, technical and human intelligence capacity, infrastructure and technology. In comparison to Turkey, countries such as Britain, France and Germany have much less perceived threats, but I would also like to point out that they have a large budget for intelligence services. Dear President, dear lawmakers, I offer to your information and assessments of our national intelligence agency, which is important to the survival of our country, to increase its budget fund by 17 per cent in 2018, and to stop speaking here, I wish our budget of 2018 to be good, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0038par0378	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0039par0379	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0038par0380	Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0039par0381	Now, Mr. President, on behalf of the AK PARTI Group, Ali Özkaya spoke on behalf of the Prosecutor's Office budget -- I have his arrest -- said that the State Department was founded in 1968, and filed a report.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0040par0382	A slip of the tongue, 1868.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0039par0383	This is 1868, not 1968. I demand that this be corrected in the record.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0041par0384	Mr. President, there's no way...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0042par0385	Don't make me fix anything. Let's keep it that way.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0041par0386	Sir, you shouldn't allow such a procedure.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0043par0387	Thank you, Mr. Tanal, for taking the responsibility of correcting all the speakers' speeches...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0041par0388	He's not a correctional office, he's filing a report.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0044par0389	I mean, it's true.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0045par0390	What's the right word?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0041par0391	Mr. President, you shouldn't allow such a procedure.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0046par0392	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0047par0393	Congressmans, now it's time for...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0046par0394	Mr. President, I'm sorry, for the record. Actually...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0048par0395	Mr. President, you don't have to listen to every group of vice presidents stand up. You have to continue the procedure.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0046par0396	For God's sake... Why are you interfering?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0049par0397	Only when the AKP's up, take the fort, don't take someone else's!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0048par0398	Mr. President, no one can interrupt, continue the procedure.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0050par0399	Yes, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0051par0400	Mr. President, despite our objections earlier, and unfortunately the AK PARTY Group, Mr. Elitaş, is willing to do whatever he wants...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0048par0401	Mr. President, is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0051par0402	... He eliminated the right to correct the past report against such slips in the Civil Charter.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0048par0403	He doesn't get up, he doesn't know, he reads the Civil Code.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0051par0404	Mr. Elitaş gave a warning that would remove such a lack.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0048par0405	He doesn't know. He can read the Civil Code and correct it in writing. Read the Civil Code.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0051par0406	The Bureau of Records can't process the petitions.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0048par0407	You don't realize the Civil Code.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0052par0408	Thank you, Mr. Group Vice Presidents.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0048par0409	He can give it to you in writing.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0052par0410	Please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0053par0411	I gave it to him, he can't take it.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0052par0412	Mr. Special, what everyone says binds itself.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0053par0413	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0052par0414	So he used a statement here, one way or another, to correct him so that no one would feel it.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0054par0415	Let everyone know the truth.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0052par0416	What everyone says -- as I say -- connects the preacher, not the speaker.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0054par0417	Your Civil Code is troubled.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0052par0418	Please, let's avoid this kind of approach that doesn't apply to the tradition of the budget...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0054par0419	You prepared the Civil Code without thinking.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0055par0420	Sir, it's not about not following budget tradition.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0052par0421	...and I say Adıyaman MP Adnan Boynukara.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0056par0422	Mr. President, I mean, now, you're saying... there's no reason we should tolerate these facts.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0057par0423	They say, "If the AKP does, so will you."
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0058par0424	What kind of unsatisfactory power is that? We're correcting your mistake, and they're objecting to it.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0059par0425	Here you go, Mr. Boyukar.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0060par0427	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, given the way the world works, positions are seen to be positioned through two concepts: trade, security, in fact, security concerns in a more accurate way. All the other elements are designed to serve these two basic concepts. Global forces are very compelling to identify these two areas. They want to keep themselves in business, countries like us, on the axis of security anxiety. And they're quite capable of making excuses to legitimize it. The adoption of security concerns as a single basis is a problem that threatens national security and social peace, because Turkey has a history and savings that can overcome security concerns imposed by them, which can balance security and trade according to its own priorities. When we talk about the National Security Council, we're talking about an institution that affects the fate of the country and the nation, an institution that has a deeper impact than any testimony in the legal legislation. We know that in the past, institutional power and the preferred procedure in the use of that power have caused some mismanagement, identification, and abuse. So much so that security risks have been reflected differently and threat analysis has been exaggerated in order to legitimize these negative policies. Social cuts and different ideas are defined and targeted by the concept of domestic threat. This is the result of the reigning mindset in the past surrendering to the global challenges we're talking about. We know that in recent years, this mentality has been tried to transform. Steps have been taken to change the institutional structure and approaches, but the main form is the change of mindset, not the form, because the change in individualization is not simply an issue that can be achieved by changing the name and form of residence in the administration process. Civilization is a matter of mentality, and it's important to change the mindset, so it's important that an understanding that doesn't see it as a threat to its own citizen penetrates all decision-making processes. Of course, this transformation is sometimes tried to be sabotaged by terrorist organizations led by globalists. Today, the PKK is one of these organisations. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important issues is planning and analysis of the future. In this context, it is useful to be sensitive to the organisational network that ▪ is trying to build in prisons and to campaign against Turkey within the country, to the dirty relations that the United States and some countries in our region have established with the PKK, to the equations of new conflict, and to new organisations to be derived from the elements of the EPA. Let's not forget that as long as Turkey has demanded an equal relationship between countries and has stopped seeing its citizen as a threat and has turned its face outside, it will remain on target and will face different operations. It is clear that the process of operations that began in 2012 will continue to be renewed. What's that? It is beneficial to be sensitive to operations such as testing ethnic and religious conflict fields, creating economic threats, feeding civil policy opposition in security mechanisms, and sabotaging governance and civil politics by action. A solution? The solution is simple and it's in our hands. Compromising the social structure, putting all the elements of the social structure together without distinction, and building a tradition that sees it as political. This is the most fundamental effort to waste the dirty ambitions of those who want to play inside using global elements and security concerns. The National Security Council, which internalized the change of mind, can take on an important function in the process. I wish you the best of your budget in the hope that this will be created. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0061par0435	Thank you. Now it's time for Heromarash MP Imran Kılıç. Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0062par0439	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on the budget of the President of Religious Affairs, and I salute all of you with respect. The need to believe is born and in all times of history, in all human societies, with all nations and states, and in the history of our nation, according to the terms of the era of faith and worship in all our states, there are religious organizations and structures. The Ottoman Empire was run by the office where sheikhism was held in charge of religious affairs, and its office was equipped with many powers. From the early 19th century, and from the time of Tanzimat, especially since the time of the period of Tanzim, another status has been brought to light by a law that was imposed on March 12, 1917 in the age of impulse and Terakki. On March 3rd 1924, and on March 429, the Court of Religious Affairs and the Office of Evkaf Umum were established, with the rulings of the Islamic religion concerning non-lawful beliefs and conventions and the governing of the meeting places of worship were given to the Chief of Religious Affairs, and the administration of the foundations was given to the Office of Evkaf Umum. In the historic process regarding the presidency of the Religious Affairs, the Laws on November 30, 1925, date 677, June 8, 1931, June 14, 1935, March 23, 1950, March 23, 1950 and 5634, June 22, 1965, and its duties are crucial. Members of parliament, the legislation of the President of Religious Affairs, which has previously been disorganized by this last law, has been met in one text, new tasks and new units have been developed, and a broader service has been provided according to the conditions of the day. The legal basis of the Ministry of Religious Affairs is the 136th Amendment of our Constitution, and according to the principle of secularism, the President of Religious Affairs, in accordance with the principle of secularism, performs the duties shown in his special law, which aims to exclude all political opinions and ideas and adopt national solidarity and integration. Public services run by the Ministry of Religious Affairs can be listed as fetal services, notice and notification services, worship and mosque services, education services, publishing services. In light of the historical experience, the Ministry of Religious Affairs based on the knowledge of wisdom and modern science and never ignores the guidance of the Quran and circumcision. The Head of Religious Affairs has always acted with common sense and common sense. In more than 100 countries today, the Ministry of Religious Affairs, which is constantly seeking to renew itself and increase its services, is also an organization of hope for the existence of citizens, relatives, nations, and communities in more than 100 countries. After that, the Ministry of Religious Affairs will continue its efforts to preach the blessed message of peace, peace, religion, Islam on a global scale as a respectable institution. As of 1924, the Constitution of 1961, Article 154 and Article 1982, and the Constitution of 1982, as well as the Constitution, are an administrative institution in general administration, and have managed to represent the community on the subject of religion, contrary to the claims of some. It is possible to say that a change in status, which is more likely to be associated with secularism, will bring this organization to its expected event. With these feelings, I wish you all the best in the budget, with respect, with love.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0063par0447	Thank you. Now,raeli MP Ilyas Sugar will speak. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0064par0451	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of 2018 of the President of Disaster and Emergency Management. I salute the General Assembly and our great nation. Dear lawmakers, as EC PARTY governments, we've also prepared our 16th budget continuously. Again, this budget is not the interest budget, but the service and investment budget. WHEN we came to power as the EC PARTY in 2002, 43.2 per cent of the budget went directly to interest spending, now 90 per cent of the budget goes to serve our citizens. In the service and investment budget of 2018, 2 billion 265 million and 864 thousand euros were earmarked for AFAD. With this grant, the AFAD performs tasks such as preparation and harm reduction before disasters occur, first aid and rescue operations during the event, help after the incident, improvements and renovations, co-ordination between institutions. Turkey is in a geography that is affected by disasters and has high risk due to its geological structure. Earthquakes take first place when disaster is assessed for its devastating effects. 780,000 square kilometers of our land is located in the first and second-degree earthquake region. Again, 70 percent of our population, unfortunately, lives above this region. More than 90 thousand people have lost their lives, tens of thousands of people have been disabled, over 500,000 buildings have become unusable. Earthquakes are causing loss of life, direct and indirect economic loss, social and spiritual problems. According to the last 60 years of statistics, the direct and indirect economic losses caused by natural disasters in our country appear to be about 3 per cent of the illegitimate domestic patient. Taking into account all of this, disasters seem to pose a vital threat to maintaining sustainable development. In order to minimize these threats, the understanding of disaster management, whose priority is risk management, rather than crisis-oriented disaster management, has been found to be necessary. Mr. President, the valuable MPs, the earthquake strategy and Action Plan, which took effect in 2012, and Turkey's road map of the fight against the earthquake has been set. Earthquake information infrastructure developed. The Afete-ready Turkey Project and the public have been informed in this sense. As part of the National Earthquake Research Programme, researchers who wanted to do research have been given material support, which has thus far been given $6m to 34 projects. Deep well seismic stations have been established in the sea, including deep well seismometer network projects on land and in the east of the Sea of Marmara, and deep well seismic stations, including nine on land, and these stations have been successful in their own way and are in the 2nd place in the world. AFAD is also a partner in the European Plate System Project, which includes 23 countries. The AFAD has developed capacity, human resources and projects that move Turkey towards a sustainable development model. The AFAD carried out an important system and technological transformation under the AFAD administration as Turkey of 2023 is approaching its destination. He also participated in various search and rescue efforts abroad, and was among the most successful countries in the world. Co-ordinating AFAD has recently provided more than 500 domestic and international humanitarian and emergency aid. With all the work and economic growth done by the EC PARTI authorities, Turkey has become the country that helps every country in the world. With this budget offered to our parliament, I respectfully salute the General Assembly, wishing that our nation would be safe from the dangers of disaster and that an effective and effective disaster management would continue in our country.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0065par0460	Thank you. Now, Osmaniye MP Suat Önal will speak. Here you go, Mr. Önal.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0066par0464	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTI Group on the budgetary budget bill for 2018 fiscal years, on behalf of the budget of the AFAD (President of the Disaster and Emergency Management) budget. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. Members of parliament have been shut down by the end of 2009, due to problems in co-ordinating disaster management in the past, as well as the General Defence Directorate, the General Directorate of Disaster Affairs and the General Directorate of the Turkish Emergency Management Office have been established as the President of the Prime Ministerate Afet and Emergency Management for the more efficient and one-hand management of disasters. The AFAD presidential office, established to ensure inter-agency coordination, preventing disasters and effective intervention in disasters and a swift completion of disaster-related healing efforts, and the AFAD county administrations are conducting efforts to improve the culture of prevention and harm reductions in society, boost education activities, take advantage of modern technology and communications, develop co-operation on local, regional and international scales, as well as to implement sustainable development and continuous development systems. With his experience, the AFAD has become more prepared for disasters in all areas today. After the establishment of the AFAD, it has given more than 50 countries disaster and humanitarian aid in emergencies. Co-ordinating AFAD has recently carried out more than 500 domestic and international humanitarian and emergency services. From Syria to Palestine, from Albania to Kyrgyzistan, Pakistan to Myanmar, Somalia to Afghanistan, Bosnia and Herzegovina to Iraq, many countries were given humanitarian aid. Our country has become the largest humanitarian aid in the world, according to the population/gayrisa national product rate, running with the AFAD to help every country in the world. The work of the logistical storage facility in 25 provinces has been completed and has been opened for business, effective and rapid intervention after the disasters. Turkey's Disaster Intervention Plan has been defined by the work to be done before the disaster, in order and after the disaster, by creating an event type at national and local levels, and by its flexible structure intervention organisation system. As part of the Afete Ready Turkey Project, society has also been targeted for disaster by the Afete Ready Family, Afete Ready School, Afete Ready Business, Afete Ready Youth campaigns. So far, 9 million, 250,832 people across the country have been involved in this project. After the atrocities and human drama in Syria, nearly 3.5 million Syrian brothers and sisters who took refuge in our country live in 21 temporary shelters in our 10 provinces. In 4,108 containers in two separate shelters established in Osmaniye, my constituency district, 15,329 Syrian brothers live as of today. During visits to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which I have served, as well as our housing centres, foreign parliamentary and representatives have praised the housing centres in our country. Many countries wanted to share this experience with AFAD. In the category of development of public service presentation in the United Nations, the Disaster Temporary City Management System, which is one of our standard applications, has been awarded the 1. I congratulate the AFAD presidency and all its staff on their successful work so far. The AFAD budget, envisioned at $2 billion,265 million,864000, contains pencils such as cari spending, current transfers, capital transfers, investment, capital expenses, capital costs, and is effective and effective that our nation survives in safety against disaster hazards and dominates our country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish you all the best in the 2018 fiscal year budget, and I salute you all, expressing the need to be supported in maintaining the concept of disaster management.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0067par0472	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the final statement is from Sakarya MP Ali Ihsan Yavuz. Here you go, Mr. Yavuz.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0068par0476	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Turkish Human Rights and Equality Institution. I hereby salute the High Council and our beloved nation. The EC PARTI, which has done important work in human rights in all areas during the 15-year period of power, has declared that peace, development and protection of human rights will also provide effective and visible contributions in the 65th Government Programme. One of the activities of the AK PARTY governments, which have taken reformal steps in this area, building radical and qualified structures, is undoubtedly the establishment of the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey. As a result of the institutionalisation efforts conducted on human rights in Turkey, Turkey's Human Rights Agency Law No. 21/6/2012 and 6332 was adopted and was therefore launched into operation by the Human Rights Institution of Turkey. In 2016, the institution was restructured to meet the issues envisioned by the European Union's acquisitor, and Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Foundation was established to cover issues related to the ban on discrimination with Law 6701, which was published in the Official Gazette of 20/4/2016. In Law 6701, the fundamentals of discrimination, species, scope and exceptions are arranged in line with the acquish of the European Union and the European Council documents. The issue of discrimination has been determined to benefit from the legally recognised rights and freedoms, and the foundations of discrimination have been ruled to be discriminated against by gender, race, color, language, religion, religion, philosophy, and political opinion, ethnic origin, wealth, birth, civil state, disability, and age, so that the use of rights and freedoms can be used against the law, based on the basis and practice. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey, have been tasked and authorized to act in accordance with these principles, in order to ensure the protection and development of human rights, the right to equal treatment of persons, the prevention of discrimination and freedoms that are legally recognised. With a list published in the Official Gazette of 16/3/2017, 8 members were appointed by the Council of Ministers and 11 members were appointed by our President. The institution continues its national and international activities. He made visits to penal institutions in our country, attended meetings in various countries and contributed. The institution has finally completed its preparations and started receiving applications. The budget, envisioned for 2018 Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Foundation, is 7m,824,000 Turkish liras for public public services, $230,000 Turkish lira for public order and security services, totalling 8m,44,000 Turkish liras. The EC PARTY has made significant changes in its reforms since its departure. Their origins, religion, beliefs, and ideas have dominated an understanding of a state that treats everyone equally. In this minival, to create a system based on universal values, to ensure peace, trust, stability, public auditing, Human Rights and Equality Institutions have been dependent on institutions such as institutions. As the President of the Republic has said in good faith, we are in an understanding of differences as wealth, and our position will never change. I hope protecting the righteous against the unjust will continue to be our most basic command. Turkey wishes the Human Rights and Equality Association budget to be good for our country, and once again, I salute the High Assembly and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0069par0486	Thank you. Thus, the Justice and Development Party Group's demands have been met, and it is now up to the National Party for Action. The first statement is from İstanbul MP Edip Semih Yalçın (Second of the National Movement Party) on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Yalçın, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes. Please complete it in time, we won't prolong it.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0070par0493	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party. On this occasion, we would like to share with you some of our views on the process of compliance and priority that we lived until 2019, before the presidential system entered the country. Although the Turkish nation has been engaged in some internal and external threats, the struggles of power and populations have been fought, but they have found a way to form an alliance and have always protected its back. July 15th and then Turkey was exposed to one of the largest separatist threats. In the process, our nation has brought forth the spirit of inner peace and solidarity and has also saved the integrity of the state through the independence and freedom reflex triggered by their genetic code. However, it is irrefutable that the threat that was overcome after July 15th attempted treason was not completely removed, but that Turkey needed social integration, unity, and unity more than ever before. Co-operation with organizations such as the separatist terrorist group PKK and ISIS is the perpetrator of the attempt on treason. This alliance with the support of multidimensional global forces, the need for unity, integrity, integrity, and national understanding in the face of the alliance of betrayal and separatism, makes it feel more and more every day. Turkey's social fabric, such as a rich treasure, is the work of the tradition of forming and governing states from Central Asia to Caucasus, from there to Anatolia. Seljuklu and the Ottoman state do not allow this strong and conservative social tissue, composed of mortars mixed by the Ottoman State over a thousand years, to separate Turkey from its separatist activities. Our ancestors left us the climate of social peace, which has given us superior resistance to all internal and external factors. In our lands of Seljuklu and Ottoman social peace, all separatist, destructive and separatist currents are melting, melting in the climate of brotherhood and peace, unable to find a chance to live. The latest examples of this unsurpassable truth have been seen in our recent history in the late Ottoman period and in the years of the national struggle. The spirit of unity and solidarity shown by the people against separatist, destructive and separatist activities has finally appeared in the squares on July 15th. The national resistance they showed by laying in front of tanks like a flood of faith on July 15th, shielding themselves from bullets, risking their lives to break the betrayal, is proof that thousands of years of savings have led to the apocalypse. On that day, the whole world witnessed the Turkish community's self-organizing ability to maintain the will of existence, and that it has been committed to protecting it forever. That unwavering determination and will broke the resistance of the coupters and the global actors who supported him. The vital function that our nation performs, along with its historical reflex and its presence, is also an epic democracy, by resisting the coup attempt on July 15th. The Turkish nation, along with its own existence, showed that its state, the harvest of a thousand years of superior tradition, was the most jealous, fiercest and most determined defender and defender of all. It turns out our nation's tenacity for independence, the awareness of unity and unity, has been compromised by the apocalypse of conscience. The July 15th epic is also a manifestation of the Turkish nation's enormous resistance to domestic and external threats. In our geography, the only way to live until the end of the day is to keep this epic resistance alive in memory, with this consciousness to nurture and nurture future generations. Therefore, as of August 2016, Turkey has mobilized to eliminate its threat completely, and this mobilisation has been crowned with a national agreement. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let it not be thought that we are wasting the time of the High Assembly with a waxed eloquence of our expressions in the literature of the eunuchs. For the record, Turkey returned from its precipice on July 15th. Thankfully, on the night of that day, our nation's threat to its back and integrity, from seven to seventy, and from all sides, its people, and from all sides, their chests were shielded, with unity and unity, and the destructive threat was avoided. The most important duty of politicians and political parties is to maintain social unity, social peace, which is the energy source of our national resistance and tenacity. It's up to us to be as jealous and meticulous as possible to protect our unity and integrity. The Union is born of strength. The word is not just a classic rhetoric, but an experience distilled by thousands of years of drinking culture. We must be united, maintain our integrity. The protection of Turkey's Beka, social peace and integrity, is ahead and above all political and personal concerns. Throughout history, separatism has always led our nation and our government to misfortunes and cliffs. When the Turkish nation was divided and divided and intertwined, our lands were invaded by foreign forces, our national independence was sadly lost. The nationalist Movement Party's stance and political stance during the July 15th and post-July 15th should be assessed in this framework. The National Movement Party is not pursuing the spirit of national understanding, which was formed in August 2016, but is not pursuing it out of the blue; Mr. State Bahçeli, our president, has not made an offer to put Turkey's government system on a solid legal and constitutional basis, out of the blue. A day is a day, and a time is a time for solidarity. Outside of our land, especially across the ocean, it's essentially a country's debt to all political parties to take a common stance and stand in the face of corruption and destruction courts set up for the destruction of Turkey and separatist plots set up by subcontractor terror organizations in our region. It is not right to use this situation as an opportunity for the illegal removal of the current ruling party from power. It's to grow buttermilk for those who love the flesh of the Turkish nation. To chain us up is to dig ditchs in the path of Turkey, which is on its way back to its powerful days in the history scene. Because the goal of our enemies is not power, but Turkey and the Turkish nation directly. In that sense, the National Movement Party, as always, has established its political understanding on the axis of unity and unity. Today, we want to believe that by defending freedom, equality, brotherhood, even the principles of justice among us, separatist elements trying to undermine Turkey, and those who extend olive branches to their collaborators will learn from our recent history. In the face of historical landmarks from the past, the National Movement Party often needs to highlight the importance of national agreements, national issues, especially between political parties, of legitimate alliances. Our wish from the alliance is to build unity and integrity with the country, with the imperial states and their subcontractors, not a secret or open policy, but rather with the nation. And whoever goes astray, he goes into the embrace of treachery and a web; and whoever does so secretly or openly, the people will pay for it. Over time, the betrayers have been removed, removed from office. People eventually purged their dirty accounts with various excuses, in front of those who brought in the dirty deeds of the muslims. It should be remembered that after the coup attempt on July 15th, Turkey was increasingly struggling with its internal and external issues. Turkey has faced the most serious regime crisis in the history of the republic. History has once again repeated the networks of betrayal to the branches of the tree of democracy, to the body of universal human values, to the body of universal principles. The worst of it is that terrorist organizations such as Ankara, Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and ISIS have attacked Turkey as an alliance. At such a time, treason and separatism had been the end of the Ottoman State, but Turkey should not be the end, it will not be the end. The Millitarian Movement Party, which acted with its thesis, performed a historical function by making a move to eliminate political obstacles. The National Movement Party believes in the necessity of designing today and tomorrow within the national consensus and consensual. With the spirit of solidarity, which was mediocre in our nation's conscience and will in 2019, it is also necessary and necessary to overcome democratic barriers with a new impulse and a new sense of alliance, one by one to break the game that sharpens our backs. In fact, after July 15th, there was a great opportunity for national understanding, but it was disbanded because of political ambitions and concerns that could not be met. The National Movement Party is on its way to re-establish this concept and is working to do its part. After all, our nation has approved a constitutional amendment with the alliance of the AKP and the DP, thus opening the way for threats to be eliminated by a powerful government system behind which the majority of the nation stands. Step by step now the stones of the presidential government system are in place. However, it is possible for political tremors to continue until the laws of harmony are passed through the Parliament and the stones of the system fall into place. Until the separatist and separatist danger is completely over, the country's dynamics and all kinds of environments fall to political parties, acting in a national consensus until it becomes normal. While this is being done, it is also vital that the laws of integration are introduced in search of political consensus before the amendment takes place in 2019. In this framework, Mr. State Gardeni, leader of the National Movement Party, has proposed that legal amendments be made on the basis of a roof that will meet political parties in common goals, provided they maintain their own corporate identities in the Law of Elections and Political Parties, as well as in the process of constitutional amendments. On April 16th, our nation demonstrated that the National Movement Party approves its constructive policy, which has yet to consider the global threat, which has not been completely eliminated with political and national priorities and precision. It is seen as a political commitment on the way to the 2019 elections, to keep the culture of reconciliation, which has been accepted by the nation's lack of gratitude. Our president's proposal for a legal arrangement to prepare for an open alliance between political parties in the 2019 elections is a very important step in this framework. The proposal is intended to ensure that there are no glitches in the system, the balance of men and political parties can perform their functions within our democracy. Honourable lawmakers, as it is known, today's laws do not allow an open alliance. That's why in the past, political parties have joined alliances through deception. This leads to a relative uncertainty, affecting the preferences of the voter and preventing the desired results. On the other hand, the election with another party's emblem and under its roof is damaging the institutional identity of the party in a passive position to accept the alliance, causing corrosion at the base. It also limits the credibility of candidates involved in the alliance at the point of public speaking and convincing them, whereas there are laws in some Western countries that allow open alliances in elections. In advanced democracies, the alliance is a legitimate and defended way out. Looking at this issue as an effort to open the way for a political party to enter parliament without being caught in the dam would be wrong, confused, and cross-eyed. We think the continuation of the agreement in the constitutional amendment process would be beneficial for the healthy and stable implementation of the presidential government system. Mr. President proposes an alliance in this context. The main goal of this proposal is to form a strong parliament. There is already a strong parliament at the goal of the presidential government system. The republican alliance proposed by Mr. State Garden is not to be perceived as a compromise of the two predetermined parties, which is just an offer to draw the framework of the alliance, which is just a proposal of the law, which is valid for all parties. When this path is opened with legal changes, it will be possible for the political party, the NGO and other elements, which merged against the Constitutional amendment on April 16th, to build a joint roof. The idea of an election alliance between the political parties we've recently brought up is not due to the loss of votes or the concern that the ruling party's nationalist Movement Party will be under the dam. What's really happening here is the creation of a powerful legislature in the new system, the government model, which balances it in the face of strong execution, and the majority of people's kahir support for such a formation. In that case, the community alliance will be as much a step as the political parties -- its name on its name -- that is, the community's alliance with the people. In this way, we, in fact, will have made the alliance with the people, with the people. The Alliance aims to promote an effective parliament that provides both healthy functioning and oversees the government model, rather than a grouping and dissolution of votes and stacking the ballots in the chest of a certain roof. In particular, it will be acknowledged how necessary, normal and legitimate the alliances would be to determine Parliamentary arithmetic, given the obligation to win the election in the presidential election and assume 50 per cent of the candidate to take over. The presidential government is an undeniable fact that a strong parliament will be needed more to ensure stability and balance of men in the government system. Then, given the dynamics and constitutional framework of the presidential system, which will take place in 2019, the importance of a strong parliamentary structure will be appreciated. Strong Turkey's Grand National Assembly, strong governance, is a healthy democracy. In this context, the community alliance will give us the opportunity and opportunity to reveal the desired painting. A strong parliament will not only balance the execution, it will function as an effective muracabic body; a strong legislative body will also have the necessary democratic weapons to establish a strong legal system. In this way, Parliament will not only be an active balance element in the face of execution, but it will strengthen the position of the judge in the balance mechanism. When legal changes are made based on its alliance, the new government system, where the blockages of the existing system will be removed, will open the way for a more dominant parliament than the current structure. Thus, the power of the masses, whose political goals and intentions are the minimum partners in Turkey's future, will be combined under one roof to reflect the synergy that has emerged in parliament. Since there will be a political picture in parliament that reflects the national will more clearly, the law as one of the three major balancing elements will be able to reach its most offensive position so far. The protection of institutional identities will also be essential in the union of parties that agreed to enter the election under one roof. The distribution of votes will be exclusive to parties, so the amount of votes from each party in the alliance will be determined from its base or from its constituents. The majority of votes to determine the legislature's arithmetic will be determined based on the total vote of the alliance. Thus, both the institutional identities and corporate personalities of the parties within the alliance will be reflected in the chest, which is consolidated and consolidated. Political parties in the Alliance will be able to form a group in Parliament by their own votes. On the other hand, the theme of the majority of the general voter population will have a spectacularly efficient result by gathering in a climate of compromise. The National Movement Party envisions the presidential alliance, inspired by the presidential government system and has considered its impact on the presidential elections. Therefore, the community alliance will be able to attract the theme of the population's vast majority like a magnet. The Alliance will not only give confidence and hope, but it will clearly reveal the balance of power. Public support, which is 51 per cent in the constitutional amendment referendum, will be able to raise the vote to much higher rates because of such an alliance. I end my speech with the honor of greeting the High Council.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0071par0511	Thank you, Mr. Yalçin. Members of parliament, Mr. Ismail Kahraman, the chairman of the Pakistani Parliament of Azad Kashmir, who came to our country as a guest of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mr. Shah Ghulam Qadir and his delegation of MPs. I welcome them on behalf of all groups and on behalf of the General Assembly. [[Applause]] 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2018 2) The President's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Court's Central Management Final Account for 2016 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Constitutional Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2016 1) Supreme Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Prime Ministership 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2018 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2016 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The National Management Budget of 2018 2) The Editor-in-Chief for Religious Affairs 2016 Central Management Final Account E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Final Account for 2016 On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Oktay Özturk is now in charge. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Ozturk. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0072par0566	Mr. President, the great Turkish nation and its esteemed representatives, I salute you all. On behalf of the National Movement Party, I have made a commitment to express our views on the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court and the Court's budget. However, we feel it is not right to consider high judicial bodies separate from first-degree courts and, of course, legal education. Therefore, we will strive to address the state of administrative staff from the first-degree court to the higher judicial bodies, the state of the judges, prosecutors and lawyers who are inextricably part of the judicial activity. Of course, the issues of legal education should not be overlooked while the issues of the judiciary are being discussed. Because the problem with the integrity of judges, prosecutors and lawyers, which is described as the fictitiousness of judicial activity, is based on legal education. As you know, judicial independence and neutrality are at the top of the elements needed for the judiciary to act fairly. An independent and, of course, unbiased judicial mechanism can't be expected to make a fair decision. Because, by the definition of the dictionary, justice means to be pure, right, to be equal, to be righteous, to be free from persecution, to give everything its full rights, to be reasonable, to be stable, to be moderate, to do everything in its proper place, to do everything properly, to be right, to be equal. It will not be possible to expect justice from an independent and unbiased judicial mechanism. The first thing that comes to mind, when it comes to the independence and neutrality of the judiciary, is that the principle of the division of powers is that the judge is independent and neutral in the face of the laws and executives. In the fourth paragraph of the opening part of the 1982 Constitution, which is in effect, the fourth paragraph of the Constitution of 1982 stated that the division of forces does not mean the ranking of superiority among state bodies, but the use of certain state powers and duties, and that there is limited civil work and co-operation, and that the rule is only in the Constitution and the law. In view of the Constitution as a whole, almost all elements of the dissolution of forces appear to be accepted. The question, however, has always come to the attention of the historical process. The important thing is that not only is the dissolution of the forces accepted, but especially the conduct of the law and the administration that is required by the separation of forces. Because the separation of forces is considered one of the most essential principles in terms of judicial independence and neutrality. Of course, the judiciary needs to be free of the influence of other forces outside the political power and legislative body. In this context, after the coup attempt on July 15th, the order of the judiciary still retains its freshness in memory as a best example of the establishment of the congregation. Taking lessons from the past in order to prevent other power centers from ruling as well as other men of law and execution to maintain independence and neutrality may be possible with measures that will prevent similar structures from ruling in the future. Because it is not possible to expect fair decisions from a judiciary that is seriously concerned about its independence to be guaranteed by one's rights and freedoms. The lack of justice, which we consider to be the basis of the property, the state, will also cause serious concern for the state. Where there is no independence of justice, there is no talking about the rule of law. In the words of the great leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, there is no independence of a nation that is not independent of justice. From the past to the present, the problems of the judicial system have constantly increased, like a snowball, some improvements that have been made have been enough to save the day, but it can't be a permanent solution. The size of the terrorist organization's trial in the wake of the July 15 coup attempt on judicial problems has also been, so to speak, salt pepper. It was found that after the attempted treason on July 15, 2016, the terrorist organization had almost completely taken over the Turkish judicial system. This is the case: A total of 4,521 judges and prosecutors serving in judicial bodies have been processed on the grounds that they are members of a terrorist organization. This data also reveals the extent of the organisation's organisation in the judiciary. A serious deficit has also appeared in the Turkish judicial system as the terrorist organisation has been wiped out. At the moment, judges and prosecutors serving in the judiciary appear to have an average of four-and-a-half years of seniority, which should show that serious measures for the future are mandatory. After the July 15th treacherous coup attempt, there's nothing to do but hope that the trials and trials of judges and prosecutors who have been suspended because of their ties to the organisation will not cause serious depression for our citizens, who have had to be appointed without proper training. Because judgment doesn't take anything away. Of course, it would be naive to expect a fair decision from judges and prosecutors who have abandoned their will to the organization of the congregation. Therefore, the reconstruction of the judiciary should be taught from the past and, of course, based on merit in the hiring of judges and prosecutors and on certain duties in the judiciary. Otherwise, some serious problems will be inevitable in the short and middle term. In the short term, there will be weaknesses in the trial of the terrorist organization. We're concerned that the fact that judges and prosecutors who are young and have not yet had enough experience and have served in the trial of the terrorist organization could disrupt the fight against terrorism. Therefore, maintaining the positions of experienced judges and prosecutors in the first degree should not increase the number of judges and prosecutors who will serve in the judiciary at least until the trial is over and, of course, until new judges and prosecutors experience. In the middle and long term, it is expected to face similar problems in the past and perhaps even worse consequences. Therefore, the judges and prosecutors who will be brought to trial must be fully respected on the basis of merit. It must not be forgotten that one day everyone may need a fair trial. It has been a long time since the court and prosecutors' licenses and rights were filed. Of course, not as much as judges and prosecutors, but the case of lawyers, the third leg of a fair trial, is no different from the case of judges and prosecutors. The problem with the integrity of judges and prosecutors is clear on the basis of legal education. The license is observed in grad school and vocational training as it goes further and further back. Each year is called the year before. The number of law schools currently teaching in Turkey is 85, although the institution's law has been passed and has not yet started teaching, but those who will start to study in a few years seem to have more than 100 degrees of law school. With very low scores, the law schools have gotten in the way of entering law schools. However, based on the LYS quotas in 2017, the number of students received appears to be around 16,000. This does not include law schools in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, which are kept out of base points despite receiving students under the LYS, whose diplomas are valid in Turkey. In addition, about 150 law schools are reached when we consider law schools established in the Balkans that accept students without taking any tests. The judges and prosecutors who serve in the judiciary and the lawyers who are part of the judiciary agree that they should be made up of decent people with sufficient knowledge, but we are unable to come up with solution proposals. The ability to maintain merit in the judiciary cannot be achieved without improving the quality of a degree, a master's degree, a doctor's degree, and vocational education. We can't witness solution proposals, despite the fact that the sides of the trial talk about lack of merit in almost every environment that comes up. We also feel that the judges, prosecutors and lawyers, who are part of the trial, are not getting enough training. We benefit from studying law in three different topics. The situation of many law schools teaching in Turkey without the distinction of state or foundation universities is pathetic. So that, as there are law schools in the academic staff that have no professors, with no academic experience, there are too many professors who have completed grad school on the outside. In addition to grad schooling in these schools, grad schooling is another weirdo. We, the National Movement Party, feel that the education system of law schools in general is inadequate, not the lack of the education of judges and prosecutors. Therefore, we feel that legal education needs to be made immediately. If there are no radical changes in law school, the ability to talk about the merits of the judiciary will only deceive yourself. Since major changes in law education will take time, we benefit from explaining our proposals for measures that must be taken in the short term first. As everyone on the subject is aware, a person who has a law school degree in the current application is also known as not being serious about an internship at the end of a year of training -- can start as a lawyer without being subject to any tests. Judge and prosecutors have also been cleared of the concept of success -- as I remember for a year at the end of the short-term internship -- in the event that the test was successful. When this is combined with a lack of legal education, it is also the source of the problem of righteousness. It's the acceptance of the relevant parties in every law school where education is not at the same level. Therefore, we believe that immediately, those with a law school degree must be prevented from being able to operate as a lawyer with a faculty degree. From our point of view, those who have a faculty degree must submit to a central test and accept those who are successful as lawyers. In addition to testing questions to measure the student's legal knowledge in the central exam -- even if it were possible to ask classical questions -- the context of Turkish usage and reasoning must be asked classical questions. In a sense, this central exam will be a vocational exam. Central exams are required to be part of the courses in the faculty curriculum. Otherwise, the environment will be prepared to open new courses in preparation for these exams, which is not our wish. Students who have succeeded in the central exams must be able to perform their professions in the form of a vigilante. Of course, for each profession, the job must be accepted for those who have succeeded in the examination or internship. It is clear that if the central exam system is accepted, there will be some problems. What will happen to the students who failed at the beginning? Even though they have graduated from law school, they should not use the title of a vigilante. In the long term, the existing legal education system must be changed radically. For a master's degree in grad school, each faculty will have to take its own exam. In law school, it would be wise to apply a different method of doctoral training because doctoral education is the most important stage of academic study. But unfortunately, criticism for the license level also applies to the doctoral stage. Therefore, a TUS-like test for medical school graduates should be accepted as a student for a Ph.D. in the field of law. Tests prepared for adoption of the law, judge and prosecutor's profession should be compared to the general law school curriculum, and no course included in the curriculum should be excluded from the scope. Those who complete an internship for the judicial and prosecutor's profession must not immediately be in a position to make independent decisions; they must be appointed as assistant prosecutors in courts or prosecutors working as a delegation for a period of time. Of course, it is useful to stress that the Turkish Academy of Justice is also very important in the post-employment and post-employment training before judges and prosecutors are accepted. Turkey's Justice Academy should be structured as an institution taught by professors and members of the high judiciary who are generally considered competent in the field. The courses should be given in theory and practice, and failed candidates should not be accepted into the profession. Occupational training must be repeated at certain intervals and maintain continuity. The judges and prosecutors who have failed in vocational training should, of course, be considered to be subject to an application. There are judges in Ankara. In order to say, there is a need for righteous, independent, impartial, and just judges. If necessary regulations are not made in accordance with universal law, the Turkish person will never be able to say, "There are judges in Ankara." But in our culture, let the people live so that the state can live. If a judicial order cannot be set up to keep a man alive, if the judgment is handed over to certain groups, it will not be learned from yesterday's trials, and it will be similar in the future, and perhaps even more grave. It is also useful to consider a trial in the United States of America that concerns our country. Before discussing the issue, it is good to focus on the concept of sanctions in international law. In international law, sanctions are forceful measures taken to implement decisions of an organ authorized to act on behalf of a society or community run by the legal system. The sanctions imposed by the damaged state are considered to be a kind of violation, but measures that can be taken by the international organisation to protect and protect international law. In that case, there is a central authority to determine the violation of the rule of law and to enforce those rules. As a result, any enforcing measure taken unilaterally by an illegal verb can be called sanctioned. The measures adopted internationally today may also be in the form of legal compulsion, such as the end of an international organization membership, such as the loss of a status -- such as material, economic, or military sanctions. According to the International Law Commission, the term "construction" can only be used for measures taken by an international organisation in response to international violations of international law with serious consequences for the international community. Compulsive measures adopted by the state may not be called sanctions, but may be called countermeasures or negligence. In this regard, measures taken by a specific state against another state cannot be considered sanctioned by international law. However, it is described as sanctioning the UN's compelling measures to maintain international peace, since it is considered the only international organisation capable of making binding decisions and implementing them through the Security Council, which represents members of the United Nations and the entire international community in terms of its powers. After briefly identifying the general framework in this way, we benefit from the assessment of the case in the United States. It should be noted immediately that the material issue of conflict in the United States is not the violation of UN Security Council sanctions, but the sanctions imposed on Iran by the United States. In other words, the embargo, which the United Nations Security Council has decided to implement to Iran, has no direct connection to the case in the United States. If, as alleged, a certain individual has committed illegal acts, if he has committed a crime, his place of trial is not in the United States, but in Turkey. Because according to the principle of the European Convention on Human Rights, which is widely accepted in international law, states have only the authority to judge in their own jurisdiction. However, the Turkish judiciary has the authority to judge the individual for alleged crimes. Therefore, a certain individual must be extradited to Turkey and must be tried by the Turkish judiciary. But what we see here is that when the United States is dealing with its own thesis, when it's in its own interests, it doesn't have any moral concerns, it doesn't respect any United Nations decision, it's the law of the forest. Meanwhile, valuable lawmakers are receiving information that a new law order will again be saved on a judicial basis. If we learn from what happened in the past, we will be able not to repeat history. When they start playing with judgment in 2010, when our language is turned, when our voices are raised, the judgment is not a place for you to play so easily. If you act like this, you'll end up trapped by a bunch of ulterior motives. We said, "We couldn't listen, but we ended up with a monster called........ Now, today, there's a number of digitizations in the judiciary and so on and so forth. Our advice to the government is, instead of dealing with quantity in the judiciary, if you deal with qualities, you're at the root of all problems. Here, the allegations are widely spoken, talking about a rejuvenation, so that new people will be made judges for thirty, thirty-five years. When such claims continue, the trials on the judiciary continue, which need to be resolved and resolved as soon as possible. Again, we say: If you're going to do something, don't deal with numbers, deal with quality, and you'll solve many problems in this way, I salute you all, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit01spe0073par0589	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. I'm taking a 25-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0073par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission and the government are in place. On behalf of the Milliyetci Movement Party Group, Istanbul MP Celal Adan is now in charge. Here you go, Mr. Adan.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0074par0007	You're taking a 25-minute break, people can't keep up, so it's fair and square. What happens if you give him half an hour, 45 minutes?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0075par0008	Consistent opposition, constant opposition.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0073par0009	We say we work harder, Mr. Pine. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0076par0011	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party to discuss budgets for the Prime Ministership, Public Control Agency, the Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency and the Secretary General of the National Security Board. I hereby salute you and our beloved nation who are watching us on the screens. Dear lawmakers, the institutions whose budgets we're talking about today are institutions with a very large responsibility, which are too vital to be assessed just by numbers. We need to be aware of the importance of our precious institutions to our nation and our state, to determine our view of these institutions with a sense of responsibility beyond classical opposition or political accounts. It must not be forgotten that the security of our state and therefore its support are above any political account. We need to be more sensitive, more sensitive to our institutions, who have taken action from every branch in order to bring our government to its knees, to show their hostility more openly than ever before, to show it to our enemies, and to our foreign enemies, to their tongs, to the pawn, to the subcontractor, to our inner networks of betrayal, to the security of our state. Our position and position as the National Movement Party is always clear and clear: when it comes to the state's reserve, all the remaining elements remain a theme for us. So in the budget talks that we've started, we're going to call this party, this party, this party, not this party, we're going to call it the Turkish nation first, and we're going to call it Turkey. Dear MPs, on the road to the Prime Minister's 2019, our country is going through sharp turns. The current state of the Turkish parliamentary system will be revised and the first step will be taken in 2019. In the current order, the Prime Minister's office, the head of the Council of Ministers, the guide of the executive officer, serves as the main wheel of the state mechanism. In the new system, the prime minister's office will be represented within the party president's mandate and jurisdiction. This is an important step, but the proper preparations for this step must be completed, and the entire staff of the state must be designed to prepare for radical change. It is also obliged to pass on the new system to our citizens ahead of 2019, in which steps the state mechanism will carry out the transformation. It is imperative that the prime minister's office, which can be considered an admiral's ship of institutions in Turkey, pioneer and co-ordinator of such activities. Dear MPs, the National Intelligence Agency is one of Turkey's most radical, most important institutions. From the day this agency was committed, it has been considered a lifeblood for the country's security. Besides, I'm sure many of our officials in this institution have taken on important duties for Turkey, wherever it is in the world, and have done a lot of work for the safety of our nation. The National Intelligence Agency has to be an institution that can adapt to the needs of the age. Our National Intelligence Agency should follow the world's breakthroughs in information and technological revolutions and adapt to these innovations accordingly, because we need to show that we're in a position to compete with other intelligence agencies operating in the same field around the world. But the burden of our intelligence agency is heavy, of course its task is tough, because as it has been throughout history, it is now the site and territory of many of the wars that have been seen and unseen. A number of negative views have been expressed about our National Intelligence Agency after the low occupation and coup attempt on the night of July 15, 2016, and a number of weaknesses have been mentioned. Some of those who express such opinions may, of course, have bad intentions, but there is a truth, regardless of the intentions behind them. A growing question mark ball has been thrown into the final knot on the basis of Reza Zarrab Τ's trial in the United States. The last statements of this person, who is suspicious of his testimony, have led to various public appearances. Is this a covert defection of an imaginary exporter named Reza, which is part of a plan, including his trip to America? It is not a truth that could not be foreseen that the Fetullahist terrorist group that has been nesting across the ocean between us and the United States could make statements that could accuse our state of the appetite for operations. However, a pursuit of this individual may be interpreted as a major flaw in the failure of the Tarassut process. The secret of the state is the integrity of the state, it must be protected like the apple of the eye. The materials that don't really exist, but make it look like there's a dirty secret, should be protected more than the real secrets, because such individuals, who can be used as a black propaganda instrument, should be protected from external interference, such as the open wound of a country. At this point, the picture in the middle is this: this operation of perception, which is being carried out on the other side of Turkey, can be avoided by very simple measures, but it has not been prevented, and a genuine self-criticism to be developed about it is very important for our country's will, for future. There is a weakness for intelligence in Turkey. The sentence is worse than what the ancients call it. The emergence of an image of the intelligence agency's weaknesses is a flare for a danger that cannot be prevented from being re-served by national and international media. This danger is far more harmful than the National Intelligence Agency being truly vulnerable. Because the real weakness can be eliminated by change of staff and some acute interference, but the public's opinion of the mind will not easily change, and in time our people's confidence in our organization will be reduced, unfortunately. Moreover, the appearance of a weak intelligence organization means inviting this country and its enemies to take action on Turkey. Therefore, our National Intelligence Agency must make an effort to conduct a perception management that will first interfere with this black propaganda. Local and national intelligence officers of this country are obliged to prepare an effective master plan immediately to prevent the paintings that will put Turkey in a difficult position. In the past, we know that the terrorist organization, especially within our borders, in our homeland, in our territory, in the trenches, in which we place weapons, in which we see it and do not intervene and lead our modern-day soldiers into the thousands, yet we know that the governors who saw it and did not intervene were the police chiefs who saw it and did not intervene. May God never show our people such a thing again. Thus, we know the cost of weaknesses from the way the state ruled in the past. We've all seen together how mothers can be cried, how a will is laid in ditchs at the point of division of Turkey, especially by the speech of democracy, the call of peace, when the wise men walk all over Turkey and say, "Don't let the mothers cry." May God never bring those days back to our nation. Thus, in these difficult days, in these days, we are forced to intervene by acting together, and by another weakness to harm our nation. Dear lawmakers, the Society of Public Control, the ombudsman, the best of all people is the one that helps people the most. Let the people and the people live so that the state can live. The Society of Public Audition, which is alleged to have been set forth by the court, unfortunately, has not achieved as big and effective results as they claim. A bridge between the nation and the state, an institution that is expected to be a mediator, has not expanded the field of activity and has not even achieved public recognition. He has made no promises to the citizens who have applied to him but to make decisions that have gone no further than in fact liquidation. Even though it's been active for over five years, the institution has not been able to identify itself as an ombudsman to us. Compared to his example abroad, he is far behind in respect of respectability and activity. According to judicial statistics, increases in the number of lawsuits filed in the past ten years have been seen in the most administrative judiciary. This, in fact, makes a negative impression on the health of the administration's operations. However, it is an important indicator that the citizens who are suffering from discomfort do not use their preferences in favor of public supervision. The institution is not recognized or taken seriously by citizens. Lack of application to the institution, which is expected to contribute in terms of mitigating the burden of the judiciary, puts another burden on the judicial and administrative system. The institution, which hopes to be the key to opening the gates of the state for the nation, has become part of the disorder that has caused the mechanism to lock. According to us, the ombudsman's system needs to be restructured in accordance with Turkey's needs, to ensure success in fighting moral pollution and corruption, to contribute to the development of civic awareness, to lighten the burden of the judiciary, to contribute to democratic development in a short period of time by eliminating the citizen's harm. With the presence of at least one unit in our country, which has been audited by the Supreme Assembly of Turkey and all of our institutions, corruption prevention has not gone far enough in the development of governance through control. The lack of co-ordination and the independence of units among control units, the lack of international control standards, the lack of financial transparency, accountability, and the lack of modern understanding in public accounts, and performance management, are the most important factors to weaken our control system. In this framework, legal regulations must be made to ensure that the principle of independence is established in all control units. With these regulations, the ombudsman's office will be open, the institution will be more active. The annual reports of public administration filed and filed complaints against public administration by the Public Control Agency, founded in accordance with the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, were not respected, ignored, discussed in parliament. This transfer of reports on the institution's work is not consistent with the importance and seriousness of the issue, and it has a negative effect on the institution's motivation. The institution aims to perform a monitoring function that stimulates public administration to function in accordance with the law and in accordance with public interest. It is sad that such an important function is not even owned by the Parliament, where it is administratively bound. The removal of this situation is important for the institutional and serious image of the ombudsman. In addition, work on promoting the culture of seeking rights and increasing awareness must be accelerated. So it must be sought out to reach the general public. It is remarkable that ombudsmanism is still an unrecognizable, unrecognizable structure, and that the institution itself has identified its own employees. These findings give us a first idea of how to study. The Secretary General of the National Security Council... the esteemed lawmakers are one of the oldest institutions in the Republic of Turkey... but given the long adventure of the National Security Council... it appears that this council has taken on different duties at various times. During the founding years of the Republic, in the chaotic atmosphere of World War II, during the cold war, the National Security Council has always taken an attitude associated with international balances; it has sometimes made decisions that have led to misdeeds, and the total Turkish nation has suffered the loss of these missteps. This building, designed to identify the dangers that threaten the nation and to establish methods of fighting against them, has at times damaged the will of the nation. There have also been times when the National Security Council was seen as a tool for power centers that wanted to put pressure on the chosen ones, but due to the legal regulations that have been carried out in recent years, the National Security Council has no longer become the sword of a military Damocles, which has been hanging over civil administration, and has now become a structure that the national Security Council security Council is able to decide between the security bureaucracy and the chosen will to prevent potential attacks against our country. The preservation of this situation is very important for state security. The wounds of the mind of February 28th to shape people's preferences are evident through the decisions of the National Security Council of its structure. Manipulating this board, which has been invested in the state's highest security measures, in its own way, will lead to great dangers, no matter which side it comes from. What happened on the 15th of July is that the danger is essentially exposed, but the nation is crushed to death by its power. This is why sudden changes to daily politics are important when the National Security Council does not guide its reflexes. This sensitivity must be kept in mind at all times. Dear MPs, I'd like to share with you a fact as we review our institutions, such as the Secretary General of the National Security Council, National Intelligence, which means a great deal to our geography. For over 50 years -- we've been following -- someone in our country has always thought, "How do we get control of the state?" whereas the state is the Turkish state. We've always asked the question, "What are you going to do?" A stronger nation is supposed to carry the ideal of a stronger state, and if you run the country, you'll never be able to hit anything. You don't need anyone in this world if you stick to the codes of the Turkish state, which was founded by the Turkish will at a time when the end of the Ottoman Empire, which is a jihan empire, was decided that the Turkish nation had been wiped out from a date. So, when you run the Police Department, a police officer, a concierge, a superintendent, even a commissioner, who has been transformed, turned into the main character of thousands of policemen who have turned themselves in, there will be no need for the Fetullahist, no need for the PKK people. The most important thing we need is to grasp 1900 to 1923 and to adhere 100% to the main codes of the born Turkish state. When we stick to it, we're so strong, we're so big. Today, we will be able to get ahead of a lot of actions that have caused internal conflicts, which have exhausted Turkey. So today, I congratulate those who have voiced the will at the main code of the Turkish state, and I congratulate them, and the will of the President and the government's valued rulers today, who represent the main backbone of the Turkish state, to hold on to these major codes, gives us a thrill. I'd like to say that we support that will all the way to the end. Dear lawmakers have been regarded by the Islamic world as the capital of Israel by the United States, Jerusalem, the apple of the eye of the Islamic world, under our control for over four hundred years. Not just the Middle East, but it will turn the world into a fireball, but it is the final trick of the global and dangerous scheme with the United States of America. No matter where you look at this decision, it means electrocuting the nerve endings of Turkey's Islamic world. Turkey, which has been provoked in succession, remained silent, has made its position clear. In this context, Islamic countries should honestly, sincerely support Turkey's leading role model initiative, strong will. As the National Movement Party, we have rejected this decision from the very first moment, and we will continue to reject it. As Turkey, there must be only one voice about Jerusalem, not one inch of strong will to be compromised. As our president, Mr. State Gardener, says, the plot of the United States of America, Jerusalem, is a dagger raised to land on the back of our holy name. If this dagger gets stuck, there won't be a single Islamic world that hurts, bleeds, and is lost. On this occasion, I salute you all. I wish the 2018 budget to our nation, to our country.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0077par0030	Thank you very much, Mr. Adan. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the last speaker will be Osmaniye MP Ruhi Ersoy. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0078par0034	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, on behalf of the People's Movement Group, on the budget talks of 2018, on the President of the Religious Affairs, the AFAD and Human Rights Foundation. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, the Dianet is an institution in which the nation can have a healthy relationship with the spiritual areas, such as the Constitution, which regulates bureaucracy and interstate relations with the nation. Of course, like all institutions, it's not an institution that's been released, it's the result of a abandonment that glides this way from the long history of Turkish civilization. You know, in the imperial balance, sheikhism would look at this institution, and then, on May 3, 1920, the Strip and Home Office was established, and eventually, along with the republic, on 3 March 1924, the President of the Diet Affairs was established. The main task of the Head of the Religious Affairs is to enlighten and inform the community about religion. That's in article 1 of the foundation's grounds. Now, I would like to begin today by reminiscing from the founding presidents of the Dianet Works -- Shamsettin Günaltay from Elmallı Hamdi Yazrır, Ahmet Hamdi Akseki to Rifat Börekçi -- who has made a very important effort to reach religious knowledge and to achieve a healthy outcome in religious life -- to remember the past of this nation's woes. And in this regard, when we go back from the historical process to the basic problems that we're experiencing, as we look at them in action again, we have two major problems: one of them is GERP, and one of them is DEAS. We see that both of these are religious, and these are both religious-based operational organisations, how did both of them turn out to be terrorist organizations? You need to look for a healthy response to the question, and you need to not limit the answers to the report, and you need to act on the solution of the issues that have been detected in the reports. Now, it's obvious, you know, how this came out. Now the curtain between the puppeteer and the puppeteer has been lifted, and the puppet is in the middle, and the puppeteers are in the middle. On the one hand, the soft force of the state system, which is fed and marginalized and radicalized in some way, wants to integrate violent elements into Islam, and on the other hand, is the case of the CIA's global operation to sleep inside the state system like a bird's egg into Turkey. The question, "How did these two facts find the basis for Turkey?" is, in fact, a serious consideration. Didn't the Foundation of Religious Affairs see the process of finding ground in Turkey while occupying authorities? The question is a huge question mark. When I examine the reports of the Diabetes and the DEA, their analysis -- as they prepare this speech -- is remarkable. They have carefully analyzed the works of ▪ and the secular issues of the platform talks. But while those analysts were in those positions, he was doing those activities there again. In this sense, we need to use our right to be relatively critical, but let's find that the form of this is in some way explainable, but the answer to the question of what needs to be done beyond criticism. Now, all these events, especially the DEA and the DEA, shouldn't be thinking about the latest Jerusalem move separately. In particular, in the late 1990s, after the cold war years, Western customs evolved into a new concept, particularly NATO, and it needed to build itself another one; to maintain its own social dynamics, to justify the existence of its own identity, to bring the resources of the other to it, and to exploit them. This process, you know, started with 9/11 and continued with the Arab Spring, reflected in Turkey's leap to Travel Park and July 15th. In the Middle East, all the situations from Yemen, Libya, Iraq to Syria were part of that situation. The Republic of Turkey and Turkish politics have also experienced and experienced them. This is where the National Movement Party stands today. Two speakers ahead of me are the political stance explained by our vice president, Semih Yalçin Bey, which is behind this whole experience and behind the mind. The reason for this stance is that there is no new July 15th and ▪ betrayal in this country, and that there are no radical organisations such as ISIS and DEAS. Of course, there are enormous tasks for the President of the Diet Affairs and his large population, but I would like to address the government again from here: religious services and spiritual services are connected to the Dianet, but in the context of values education, these are only possible through inter-agency coordination. In the national education and municipal muftülüms, in the national education departments, in the family and social policy departments, along with the family and social policy, there is a co-ordinating obligation to work in a co-ordinated way in the culture departments. In Turkey, public bureaucracy is tired, my friends. The fatigue of public bureaucracy, the work of each chief as his own officer and his obligation to remain in charge, causes public affairs, especially public service sectors, to fail to function well. When schools close down in a country, it is necessary to discuss what muftu can do outside summer Koran courses to provide values education and religious services. Just as a governor can hold a security coordination meeting in the provinces, Mr. Minister, Mr. Government, in the same way, with the managers of the institutions I've just mentioned, who can discuss these issues, how can we hold a meeting with the governors of the province and offer religious services, values education from healthy resources, how can we not allow them to enter into a new structure of their own, transparency, the state of the Republic of Turkey, the civility of Turkey, by using the people who own it? In this regard, the fundamental problems that Héricism and Selephynicism mentioned in the Dianet's report are the following: Especially when we use the reciprocal language of accounting and foreignism, when we use the radical language of selephiness, what can you tell them as a solution? We see what a Dianet can tell them. A large majority, of course, may be people in a certain part of our country who have a sense of religious literature, but we call them Imam Mâturîdî, our religious cult imam, but we can't educate the society about what are the basic nasses that Mâturidýdî has in mind. But on the other hand, why can't we do more work on which foods are forbidden or which food is lawful or what is in the prayer, or which of the Alo Fetva lines can disrupt all forms of worship on all subjects online, even if it's not all about society, but the fetish authorities, which may be asparagas, will be material to the ulterior ones? One of the important questions is that in order to increase this and this, all institutions, especially the President of the Religious Affairs, have to be involved in this approach, and when we express the fact that Islam is a religious political argument, the approach of our spiritual celestial dome, which sees humans as human beings, is that it is also a good moral argument to light up the sky, we take it out of being a religious ideologist, and we take out of being an ideology book of the Quran and the Kerim. In this sense, different interpretations of Gulf Islam from the foundation of the Selefiic currents in Turkey have created reference sources of political Islam, in this country and in this country, where there are no such concepts yet, the horizon is the source of which we feed, the name of the late Professor Erol Güngör from which we are proud, and in its interpretations of what is today's Matters of Name, and in its approaches, that the Islamic world can actually shed light on modernisation and democracy in its own natural way, with its potential for the spring and its initial transformation of the Middle East. But seeing that, those who wanted to prevent natural intervention from developing in the natural way, they destroyed it with certain interferences. And we've all been through the fact that Turkey is the jump point of this process of destruction. In this sense, we need to remember that religion is a spiritual area that needs to be well understood, digested, and internalized and transformed into a way of life. For that reason, the intellectual and historical experience of the Republic of Turkey's state; the secular, social law state understanding; its stand against imperialism, as well as the long-standing state tradition of other structures in the Middle East. Political speakers today should know that they can speak on this civilization, that they must make important attempts to introduce its solid resources, healthy reserves to its nation, important contributions, and significant challenges, so that the Hassan Corporals, who continue to keep watch in Jerusalem, then the Fahrettin Pashas who preserve Medina, can stand with the same determination and determination. So this consciousness and this belief may have been a reference to these approaches, and the children of this land have shown us that on the night of our betrayal, the heroically placed under the tank, challenging the focus of betrayal. But in order to demonstrate its sustainability and the ability to sustain life in normal circumstances with a certain kind of consciousness, you have to get rid of the popular culture, get rid of the anxiety, get rid of the perception of conservativeness on the masses, just through religious symbols. You have to get religion out of the tabloid area. Not by the oratories that show religious propaganda especially on screens, but on the stand, on the bench, on the bench, in the intimate sense of Mehmet Akif. In the sincere sense, the Hamdi Yazdarca of Apple, Ahmet Hamdi Akseki, the contractors in the idea of Rıfat Bürekcı, need to express themselves. I think what I'm trying to say has been more than enough. In this context, we express that religion is a moral and spiritual habitat of the individual and that religion must continue with an understanding that it will be a moral society, in that sense, by the moral nature of the individual. On the other hand, you know, people who serve the Diyanette, which we think comes to political parties, which we think comes to you, have high expectations within this huge institution. In this regard, their rights of identity must be improved in order to gain dignity, to be in a position of respect for the mufti and the imam-hajis. It's a fact that there are friends who are imams at the mosque, but they're on four different squads; people who are employed through the office, people who are employed over 4/C, officers over 657. We need to make a special effort to save that understanding and not leave the imamless mosque immediately. In this regard, we are happy to see and know that at the beginning of their mission, they are in the position of an imam, and that they are acting in such a manner, that the spiritual field they represent is not an official position with their people. In the same way, as in the past, the fact that we don't find it right that religious figures and religious leaders, teachers, teachers, as a negative, aberrant, weak, human community, should be given in the form of a constructive, decent, spiritual belief leader, that the religious leaders and religious figures should be represented in this way, as well as on the screens. Another conversation for me is AFAD. The AFAD institution is one of Turkey's most important institutions. You know, some institutions and organizations can only be made possible by experience and experience. A vision, such as AFAD, began with the Erzincan earthquake in 1939, from the 1980s, from 1989 until the great earthquake in 1999. The AFAD has become an institution within the country that can only help in extraordinary situations, in moments of disaster, in which our civilization, our acquish, is a natural product of our acquish, which can serve humanity, and the AFAD, like the Turkish Redbear, has become an institution within itself that can bring help to any place in need. In the name of Northern Iraq, we were politically opposed to the construction in northern Iraq, we showed our opposition stance to the end, and the Turkish state took initiative against it, but in those days, the earthquake occurred, where AFAD and Kızılay went before anyone else. I'd like to remind you of that fact. In the same way, we have a culture that, wherever humanity is in distress, we see it as our enemy, or we don't even agree to see it as our enemy, and that can bring humanitarian aid to those who think of us as enemies, even where they need us most. The emergence of AFAD as an institutional mind is related to the creation of the values of civilization that I just mentioned. The Syrian crisis immediately presents the vision of about 3 million asylum seekers in our country, including employment, eating and humanitarian aid. What's the critical issue? The critical issue is about transparency, the controlability of the revenue expense scheme. In this regard, we also feel that authorities should make legal arrangements to clarify this issue of inspection and controlability as soon as possible. Another institution I'm going to address, another agency I'm going to evaluate, valued lawmakers, is our new institution for the Human Rights Council. Of course, this was born with a bit of a problem, in fact, the institutions that exist from the 1990s to this side, based on the historical experience of the well-intentioned Human Rights Foundation. First, the Human Rights Institution became the Human Rights Commission in Parliament as a commission. The following process was represented by a state ministry. This has been a slow process of institutionalisation and organizationalisation since the beginning of July 15th as the Human Rights and Equality Foundation. So, looking at their work so far, we've observed that they're very limited. I want to get this from here: when we make democracy more visible in Turkey, human rights in Turkey, the values that exist in our civilization in a universal sense, our search for rights, law in international circles will be much more likely because it is not right to compress these rights and legal values into a particular area that is used as the politicalisation of ethnic identity or the evaluation of different ulteriorly ulterior groups. We must not limit the exits to limited emotional responses as we fight the Jerusalem case. In the matter of Jerusalem, especially the human rights institutions in Turkey, especially in their own borders and populations of Muslim citizens in Europe, we need to approach this issue in the context of human rights, in general, in the context of the universal law of human rights, because the issue of freedom of faith is part of it. The solution to this exit in Jerusalem's private area, not for four hundred years, but for the common peace of humanity, the understanding of the government that our own elders, our ancestors, have established in our past, serve that region. Otherwise, the new Islamic world, the marginal groups, the Muslims, can't be stopped by propaganda tactics in their own public opinion in 1997, in order that the cold war would change the concept for them. The way this can be avoided is to see in this framework the approach of human rights as a positive value, as a positive value, as a manifestation of a civilization, to the issue of Jerusalem, and to religious freedoms. Otherwise, Turkey is trapped between elements such as DEAŞ and Å, a other Islamic world, prepared, prepared, ready for the operation, with the testimony of the president of the United States and the period of the cross, is a Crusade. The days of conflict against the promise will rise to humanity. To be able to rise like a new sun on the horizon of mankind falls to Turkish children of Turkish-Islam civilization and to the children of this civilization in that sense. Cemil Meric says in a statement: The children of Mount Olimpos could not bear the children of Mount Hira. We have to tell him that a Turkish-based civilization as Muslim as Mount God as Mount Hira, a Ankara-based community as Muslim as Mount Hira, the children of a Turkish-based capital and political vision of Ankara, and the children of its ancestors, are able to undo this game by showing the same approach that they set out yesterday. This issue is the fight of Alp Arslan and Romanian Diyojen. This issue, the fight of the Romanian Diyjan, the Konstinopolist, who sent us back to Istanbul as they sent us back.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0079par0055	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. This concludes the talks on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Now it's time for the Republican People's Party Group. The first word on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group belongs to Izmir MP Musa Çamas. Here you go, Mr. Pine. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Pine, your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0080par0062	Thank you. Mr. President, honored members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our valued citizens watching us at the beginning of their screens, Enis Berberoglu, who has never sold his pen, bent it, bent it, wrote it down, and made it out of business, and saluted with the love and respect of very valuable scientists who have been thrown out of the business, unbending or bending its laws. I wish our budget of 2018 was good luck and good luck to our country. Dear friends, here yesterday, AKP spokesman Mr. Mush, Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz and Mr. Prime Minister have drawn a picture of our friend Turkey, who is a total of 16 AKP People's Party (AKP) MPs, and how well it is inside and out. I'd like to share with you a few insights about whether this photograph is the right photograph or not. First of all, you've been in power for 15 years and your 16th budget, which you brag about. The ruling members have a question to answer first to society and then to their own conscience. We would like to hear the answer here, whether there is a single policy that has not been deceived, deceived, or ended in frustration by the AKP (AKP) who has ruled the country for fifteen years. Think about it, please. Do you have a single policy that your government has implemented, that you defend, that you treat those who oppose, that you treat as enemies, traitors? In the end, should those who oppose be wrong, and the power be justified. Do you have what you call an act? I'm not exaggerating, I'm not talking about infrastructure services like roads and bridges, I'm talking about big policies that lead to a country. We'd like to hear from the ministers here if there's a single policy where the objectors are unfair and the power is justified. Let them say it if they have it. For example, the Syrian policy... this policy first leads Syria, then our country to disaster. What happened? You agreed that Syrian policy was wrong. In its latest statement, former Deputy Prime Minister Numan Survivor said that Syrian policy was wrong all along, but there is a heavy wreck left by that wrong policy -- a country that was destroyed, hundreds of thousands of women, children, millions of people who had to leave their country; more than 2.5 million people are in our country. In recent days, Recep Tayyip Erdogan said he spent a total of $30 billion in talks at the United Nations. At the Plan and Budget Commission, we told the Finance Minister, the relevant ministers, to give us the transcripts of this. We said, "Give it to us." But they couldn't account for 30 billion. For example, the Balyoz and Ergenekon cases... are being set up, slandered, calculated by coupgers. You have glued Ergenekoncu's face to anyone who says, "We're doing wrong." What happened? You said you were wrong, you were deceived, you were deceived, but in that process, when you ignored criticism, when you called the objectors traitors, thousands of lives were turned into hell, institutions were destroyed, the country was turned into nails. For example, your alliances with the congregation... you were certain that the congregation was your friend. They plot and slander to take over the institutions, and they become a terrible staff in the state. You shout to those who warn, "Heavy, the enemy, the enemy." What happened? May God forgive us, we were wrong. You had to say, "We were wrong." But the country suffered a great wound, institutions were destroyed, people were harmed. For example, the peace process... we said in this Parliament that everything should be spoken here in this Parliament -- not behind closed doors. You cannot make peace with this approach. If you do so, there will be a greater war, not peace. You have become angry with those who say so. The process is being abused, so be quick about it. You called those who said "violent opposition that can't handle peace." What happened? We were wrong, we were deceived, we were wrong. You came back from this policy. The process collapsed, and there were more heavy battles than ever before. You've been wrong, you've been deceived, but we've lost thousands of people, soldiers, police, civilians, cities destroyed, the country has suffered a great deal of damage. For example, the matter of the crash of the Russian plane... you were the one who advocated this action when the plane was shot down, and you were the one who called us on sides? You were the one who argued that it was a need to be a great state. Don't do this, it'll be a big problem for our country if Turkey, whose relationship with the West is damaged, is broken with Russia. You've insulted all those who object and offer different attitudes, not their own country, but Russia's. Take it easy. Do you still think this is the old Turkey? We'll burn a turd if we have to. What happened? Not us, but those who have dropped it, who have not been able to attract our relationship with Russia. You have apologized and coerced from this policy. Ahmet Davutoglu explained that the pilot who shot down the plane was not a pilot, so it is your decision. But what's done is done, with his billions of dollars missing, there's only one country that's been discredited and, in turn, forced by Russia to do what he says, not two. Germany, Holland... now there is a crisis with countries like Germany, Holland. You have done great harm to the country, to our people in Europe, because of the stubbornness of an election effort that is of no use. Yes, it doesn't fit the democracy of Europe, and no one in the country has already supported this attitude of Europe, but as always, you left the diplomatic language aside, you cut it off, you cut it off, you shouted war cries, you said unspeakable things. ▪ Don't do that. This attitude, this approach, this style, is damaging to the country. Because of what you have done, the lives of our people living in Europe will be toxic. In Europe, the responses to these wrong policies are becoming increasingly hostile to Turkey, and we all suffer a lot of damage. You have made accusations, not of the country, but of the traitors who hired the Westerners. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are certainly a great loss of reputation due to 15 years of wrongs, mistakes, corruption. Recep Tayyip Erdogan wants us to believe that he is a decent man in the face of the lost, lost reputation. Erdogan is trying to cover the loss of reputation with the power of this office, as well as the presidency's office. He's trying to make you forget the words and actions of any self-respecting person who believes in values, who cares about human enemies, who will never accept them. He's trying every way to create the impression that all arguments about him are mainly political debates, that they're due to political differences. Excessive poses in talks with the presidents of the Western state, the effort to keep his old roadmates around him who he fought and destroyed, the way he praised himself, the way he cared about popular people, all of which, in a sense, I think, is to gain his personal reputation back with strength. He wants us to believe that his power from the elections cleared him, made him a decent person. For example, take your mother's words to a protesting farmer. The misery of her sentence, the lack of conscience that boos a mother in a rallying area, the sound of corruption claims, my son, have you reset the money? Or don't take the money that that that businessman brought to his son. The moral problem in his sentence, which he said, is that we've seen a lot of damage in the election, the recklessness of the peace process, the recklessness of his hand, the recklessness of his hand that kicked a wounded citizen in Soma. He says that he's taken care of the conflicts that cost thousands of people's lives, and he wants us to believe that even though he's managed the country for fifteen years, he's driven the country to disaster, the cunning that drives its responsibility for everything else, the one day after he says, the next, the principlelessness of the people's actions and the way he's taken on it's become so many people's profile. He expects us to respect him by looking at his personality, his morality, his character, his conscience, his primal identity, not at what kind of man he is, but at the vote and at the power he holds. He's doing almost everything he can to put that perspective into place. But it's not the value of a position that suits a man, it's the value of a position. That's what's permanent. A certain person is the one who exploits respect for his position, not the one who reduces it, but the one who gives it extra value. On the other hand, there is a fact that Erdogan was unaware. We can't tell what kind of person we are by looking at the words of those who love us, those who cherish us, the fans. What's important is how the opponent, the opponents, the strangers, see us. The praise of the other and the criticism of your friend are acceptable. For example, Muhammad, we have a different belief in our fellow believers, okay, we have a different belief that the board is breaking our order, trying to destroy our ancestors' religion, but he's very honest, someone who doesn't deserve it. Or wise King Aliya Izetbegovic, the enemy of Izetbegovic, we bear witness that he has done no injustice in the war. We remember Aliya as a righteous person. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, my last word is on the 299. Today's President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is the leader of a political party who has not kept his oath. Our citizens are on trial for their rightfully objecting and speaking against each other from time to time. Recep Tayyip Erdogan is no longer any president, he is AKP President. Therefore, we strongly deny and condemn thousands of people with investigations, prosecutions, courts, warrants under the law.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0081par0082	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0082par0083	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0081par0084	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0082par0085	In his speech, Mr. Mosa made accusations about Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan over misdemeanor, immorality, and many other words. In this frame...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0081par0086	Mr. Bostanci, I'll give you two minutes, so please don't let us challenge a new taunt.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0083par0088	Let's take a look at what Mr. Bostanci thinks about music being forbidden. Astonishing Karaman, the ideologist of the EC PARTY, also says that it is a sin. Women listening to music...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0081par0089	Mr. Agha, Mr. Bostanci is on the stand.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0083par0090	Let's take a look at what they think.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0081par0091	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0083par0092	The music is forbidden. He says, "Insane Karaman."
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0084par0093	An explanation that binds him, wouldn't that be ridiculous?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0083par0094	That's what he says. Open it.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0084par0095	Do you believe everything he says?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0083par0096	He's your ideologist.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0084par0097	Not at all, he's not my ideologist.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0083par0098	He's your boss. WHAT is the opinion of the EC PARTY on this matter?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0085par0100	Shut up, you bastard!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0086par0103	Mr. President, dear friends, the first sentence of Mr. Moses was the expression that the AK PARTY had been in power for fifteen years, a reality. The people who carried the AK PARTY to power. For fifteen years, Mr. Moses, you have spoken the same words, you are in the same place, you use the same words, the same expressions.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0087par0104	It's not a twist, it's not a twist.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0088par0105	At least we're stable, we're defending what we know, we're telling the truth; we're not quitters.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0086par0106	The people are looking at you, and they're looking at Erdogan, and he's bringing the AK PARTI (AK) to power, and in 2014 he's made Mr. Erdoğan President. What you said is in the account. So, what's the change here? The change is this: "Volume" is expressed in different tones. While we're listening to Mr. Moses... there's a microphone, we all hear it, but he's trying to make sense out of the exciting way of speaking to the squares... but it doesn't make sense. Now, Mr. Musa, you've said a lot of things, you've mentioned Ergenekon and Sledgehammer.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0089par0109	You were his prosecutor.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0090par0110	Behold, look into the eye of this place, and look into the eye of this place, and look into the eye of Tuncay Ozkan.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0086par0111	You've talked about a gang here, its vile attempts, its judgments in this frame, we all know that.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0089par0112	You were his prosecutor, his prosecutor.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0091par0113	Who brought those judges...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0092par0114	There, Mr. Secretary there, he appointed him.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0093par0115	So, during the same gang's 17-25th-December coup attempt...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0094par0116	Recep Erdogan gave Zechariah the car of the office.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0092par0117	Look into the eyes of Tuncay Ozkan, and apologize.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0093par0118	...because he doesn't have a public base...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0095par0119	▪Zekeriya Öz goes and comes a thousand times. Your interior minister said.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0096par0120	Who was the prosecutor of the case, Mr. Bostanci?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0093par0121	Isn't it a moral and a conscience problem, Mr. Moses, to use some of the materials he's come up with in order to find some environments he can ally with himself? Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0097par0124	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0098par0125	Zechariah was your hero, your hero. It was Mr. Fetullah Hodja, Mr. Fetullah Hodja!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0099par0126	I'm the prosecutor of this case. Isn't it a moral problem, Mr. Bostanci?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0100par0127	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0101par0128	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0102par0129	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0101par0130	In the last 20 seconds of Mr. Botanian's speech...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0103par0131	What did I say?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0101par0132	...he accused the congregation of using arguments that the congregation tried to strike during December 17th-25, because it couldn't find a social basis, and said, "Isn't that a moral problem, Mr. Musa Pine??" He stated that it was immoral to express these arguments during December 17th-25th. Because of the bullying, we want to exercise our right to answer.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0103par0134	Mr. President, just a minute... everything will be clear.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0101par0135	Let's get this straight.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0104par0136	Just a second... let Mr. Bostanç speak his statement.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0101par0137	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0105par0138	It's not what Free Bey interprets. The gang that made the December 17th to 25th, put some materials in the middle, and because it had no base, it did this to provoke some people around these materials against power. Yesterday, I made a reference to the use of the tools of a gang accused of immoral, despicable, gang-banging, dishonest, giving false documents to courts, and I asked a question. The answer to that question was given by Mr. Ozgur in the work already done, one way or another, and the people understood it. It's just a question I'm asking here, a question mark.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0101par0140	Mr. President, because Moses had just spoken to Çamah in his speech, using a sentence that reflected to the digits, what is this sentence, and what is it that is not immoral to use it? Why would you...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0105par0141	I said, "Isn't that a moral and a conscience problem?"
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0106par0142	Did this lack of decency use his statement as a personal statement, or was it related to the terrorist organization that expressed or committed this immorality?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0107par0144	He said my name.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0106par0145	That's what I'm asking.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0108par0146	▪ It says to use and repeat.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0109par0147	I know what I'm saying.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0108par0148	So do we.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0109par0149	I know what I'm saying. Where do you put the difference between what you said yesterday and what you did today in morality and conscience?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0110par0150	Mr. President, by saying my name...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0111par0151	Mr. Pine, I'll ask for the minutes, and if there is such a thing, I'll give you my word. Okay, I'll ask for the minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0112par0152	Mr. President, look, while the ruling party's deputy group president here is exercising his right to tease...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0111par0153	Yeah, he's using opposition, too.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0112par0154	...and since you've heard it clearly...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0113par0155	It's not the right to bully, it's the answer.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0112par0156	I'm sorry, your right to answer. While you've heard with your very clear ears: "What is it, Mr. Pine, that you should not repeat the arguments of this gang here but rather say, "I'm sorry, Mr. Pine?," even if you're still going back on Mr. Bostancı's objection...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0114par0158	But Mr. Bostanci says I didn't tell him.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0112par0160	Honey, how could he not?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0114par0161	Okay, I'll look at it, I'll give it to you. I said, it's okay.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0112par0162	Because of this situation, Mr. Bostanci...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0114par0163	Mr. Bostancı said I didn't tell him. When I said so, I'll look at the reports, I promise...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0112par0164	No, it's just...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0115par0165	No, no, no, wait a minute, wait a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0116par0166	He said, "Mossa Pine, what more can he say?"
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0115par0167	I raised a question, "This is a moral and a conscience problem, isn't it?"
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0117par0168	Well, what but what?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0115par0169	Question.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0117par0170	You're saying this supports the gang's arguments.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0115par0171	In the past, the people have answered, and in the future, the people will answer.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0117par0172	It's not like that.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0118par0173	Mr. Special, I'll look at it, if you have it, I'll give it, I'll give it, I'll give it to you. I'll give it to you if there's a tease. Let's get the records, guys. I will.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0119par0174	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0118par0175	Mr. Pine, I'll take care of it, then I'll promise you if you have it.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0119par0176	No, wait a minute, I'll tell you something: Mr. Group Vice President, in general, raised his objections, but other than that, Mr. Group Vice President, he also brought criticisms about myself.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0118par0177	It's already gone polemic on your person, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0119par0178	That's why I want word from the teaser.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0118par0179	Okay, here, I'm gonna look at it, I'm gonna look at it, I'm gonna look at it, I'm gonna look at it, I'm gonna give it to you, I'm gonna give it to you, I'm gonna give it to you, I'm gonna give it to you, I'm gonna give it to you, I'm gonna give it to you, I'm gonna give it to you, I'm gonna give it to you, I'm gonna give it to you, I'm gonna give Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Sugar, I have to warn you one thing: Look, in the letter of agreement signed by all our groups as Speaker of Parliament, Mr. Mehmet Naci Bostancı, Mr. Levent Gök, Mr. İdris Baluken...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0120par0182	He's in jail.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0121par0183	Baluken's in jail, where is he? Where?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0122par0184	In Sincan.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0123par0185	...Mr. Erkan Akçay- there is a very clear sentence against bringing goods and goods to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0124par0186	When was it banned? This is his cell phone, his cell phone.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0123par0187	And in the new Civil Code amendment...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0124par0188	Cell phone...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0125par0189	No phones, either?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0123par0190	...to bring foreign currency, banners, and other material that disturbs the working order and peace of mind of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0124par0191	Oh, okay, that's how we do it from now on, that's how we do it from now on.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0126par0192	Mr. President, for God's sake, what's wrong with that?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0124par0193	Is that okay? Did you ban the phone?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0127par0194	Okay? Then get rid of that walking thing.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0124par0197	We got it, we got it, we got it, we got it, we got it, we got it, we got it, we got it.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0127par0198	Okay.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0128par0199	President, about bringing anything else...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0124par0200	Okay, we've moved these. You're banning technology.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0128par0201	The weapon is Ali Candy's weapon!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0129par0202	Now, lawmakers, look, budget talks are being broadcast live for 24 hours. Agha, put that away too.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0130par0204	No social media accounts, you're afraid of the truth. Why are you afraid of the truth?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0129par0205	Now, members of the law...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0131par0206	But, look...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0129par0207	Please, Mr. Agha, lift him up.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0132par0208	Mr. President, let the report go to the report -- you love the report -- you apply to the Constitutional Commission's report in the Civil Code debate -- that is not the equipment or auxiliary equipment that is meant to be mentioned when it is said.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0129par0209	Now, then, let's bring it in: everyone broadcast with a big-footed camera, Mr. Special, I'm sorry, there's a rationality, there's a limit.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0133par0210	They're not huge, they're practical, they're portable.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0134par0211	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0129par0212	Mr. Agha, please, I beg you...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0134par0213	It is stated by AKP members that there is nothing wrong with it. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2018 2) The President's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Court's Central Management Final Account for 2016 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Constitutional Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2016 1) Supreme Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Prime Ministership 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2018 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2016 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The National Management Budget of 2018 2) The Editor-in-Chief for Religious Affairs 2016 Central Management Final Account E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Final Account for 2016
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0135par0260	Members of parliament, it is now the seat of İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu. Mr. Bachelor, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Bacheloroglu, you and the speakers of the next Republican People's Party group have seven minutes each. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0136par0265	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I salute you all. First, I'm going to start by saying that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has made a mistake concerning its own staff. Under Law 3795, the technical high school graduates will be named technicians, considering their profession, but Turkey's Grand National Assembly does not give these friends the staff by asserting the Agency's Law. They're being unfair, so let's make this right. My dear friends, there are activities that Mr. Speaker -- a whole book table -- we've looked at them, but there's nothing in between; there's no destruction of the old PR building and there's no closing of the mosque. There's nothing else, but in those days, after the Capitol was bombed, a real estate association came in, and he said here: "The nation makes the parliament a nation." I wonder where this nation, where these real estate agents, where they did it, what they did. My dear friends, I'm going to talk to you about the budget for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The foundation of the Turkish Grand National Assembly actually dates back to 1876. As you know, the first legislature begins on March 20, 1877, and consists of the Parliament-i Umumi, Parliament-i Ayan, the king's 26 members, and 115 elected members. There's something interesting here, and I want to share this information: 69 of them are Muslims, 46 are non-Muslims. Then Congress II. It was shut down by Abdulhamit, then shut down until 1908, reopened in 1908. It's a long story, of course, I don't have time, but what happened to the Great National Assembly of Turkey until today. There have been several interruptions, there have been difficulties, there have been difficulties, this Parliament has ruled the Insultional War again on April 23, 1920, and then, on May 14, the multi-party democracy again in this parliament, then the intervention and the closing of parliament on May 27th, then the intervention in 1980, the closing of parliament, but despite all of this, Parliament has come to a point where freedoms in the country have been expanded. How far has it gone? By 2010, he would have arrived. After the constitutional amendment was made, the Justice and Development Party -- which continued during the Justice and Development Party period -- lost its orientation for democratisation, and then the elected President, and then, you know, locked on to one thing, the presidential system. My dear friends, I'd like to share something with you. Look, the President, who was elected President or President of the United States on April 16th, has been elected as an executive. The Chosen Assembly is something else, my dear friends of the Legislature. So, we're against the presidential system, but there are democratic presidential systems in the world. The system you're bringing in is not the democratic presidential system, but you're giving a man the right to take custody of the Great National Assembly of Turkey, the legislature. But you fought for years for custody. What are these rights, I won't enter for long, I don't have time, but you, as you renounce your control authority, share your authority to make laws with the elected President; this is to step back on democracy, my dear friends. In fact, the amendment to the Constitution on April 16, 2017 has not been implemented yet, and will enter with the first election of the President, but you've done more than enough, knowing that the State of Emergency has the opportunity. My dear friends, it is very clear to you how to issue a decree in the State of Emergency law, which will cover the issues of the Constitution, and you have made a change in the provisions of the 111 basic laws and laws of the State of Emergency, and 46 of these have nothing to do with the State of Emergency. There are things you'd be surprised at. There's one thing you'd be completely surprised at. After the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey came to light, a week after the Plan and Budget Commission rejected the clause, you made an arrangement for public banks, my dear friends, by violating Parliament's will under the law. All of this makes it clear and clear that you are making changes to the Parliament, which will seriously eliminate the quality of the National Parliament of Turkey, which you are in. This is an arrangement that has prevented the Turkish Grand National Assembly from walking the path of liberation since 1876, my dear friends. Look, my dear friends, this House has been through a lot of trouble, and it's been through a lot of interference from the outside. This House has been closed by military coups, my dear friends and your team have faced these blows in the past. Now, what is expected of you, my dear friends, is that you, as this House has always done, are to take out the laws that extend freedoms, make the arrangements, but you haven't done so. You surrender the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to the will of one person, to the will of one man, my dear friends. That's wrong, you have to turn this way, my dear friends. I'd like to finish with a memory of the First Assembly. In the first legislature, Erzurum MP Hussain Avni Ulaş brings to parliament the wrongful arrest of a journalist in Erzurum, and they say as they speak: "You cannot talk about this here while the enemy is in Poland." He answers: If we fail to raise justice, if we fail to raise freedoms, the front of the Poletlı will collapse. My dear friends, you say you're fighting seven duvets, but you're doing the opposite of raising justice, doing things that limit freedom, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0137par0278	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor. Dear Sugar, you were supposed to remove that walking material. Dear Sugar, please, I beg you, so we all have to follow this work order. That walking material...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0138par0280	What's the harm in that?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0139par0281	Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0140par0282	What the hell is a walking material?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0139par0283	Mr. President, now, while the Civil Code is changing, I'm going to file a report on this matter, my friends. Your deputies, your bidders, this is the cell phone, the foot, or whatever it is -- because there's literature there, we did it -- it's not an arrangement that covers that. It doesn't hurt anyone. We don't go back and publish the speaker of another group.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0141par0284	We're broadcasting our own conversations.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0142par0285	Mr. Special, look, here's the thing, which is...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0139par0286	Now, let me tell you something. If you intend to punish him, do so, and it will be your honor. And we're...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0141par0287	That's what we're doing.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0139par0288	That's not gonna happen, we're not lifting it!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0143par0289	What do you mean, we run this place with honor? I'm sorry, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0144par0290	Yes, speak properly, for God's sake!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0145par0291	Yeah, and we're doing our job with dignity.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0143par0292	I'm having him removed by applying the Civil Code, Mr. Sugar, and I'm going to... you remove that walking material, remove that material.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0146par0294	You're breaking and entering.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0147par0295	No, we're not, we're not!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0148par0296	Come on, brother!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0149par0297	There's no such thing as the Civil Code.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0150par0298	I mean, there's no limit to that, guys.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0151par0299	We're not lifting it!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0150par0300	Look, Mr. Special, the House's right to broadcast is entirely owned by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0151par0301	Yeah, well, you're gonna do everything you can think of, and the opposition is gonna put this, and you're gonna object to that!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0152par0302	Yeah, what have we done so far?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0150par0303	Okay.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0151par0304	Yeah, there's no such thing, we don't lift it, we don't lift it, brother, we don't lift it!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0150par0305	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0153par0306	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit02spe0150par0307	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0150par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission and the government are in place. Mr. Bostanci, I give you my word on 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0154par0008	Mr. President, before we took a break, there was a disagreement here about broadcasting from the CHP Group. The House has a working order. There is a public broadcast on how to bring these talks to the public. Other than that, it's certainly a fair number of criticisms to bring the negotiations here to the public. In fact, technological advances also create a distance from the current legal arrangement. Our opinion and the decisions the House has made regarding this issue so far are also in the direction that there will be no personal broadcast from here. We think it would be important for the Council of Parliament to clarify this matter with a final decision, with certainty and clarity.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0150par0011	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0154par0012	Because in this kind of conflict, we think we should finally solve problems with the rules and the law. So, beyond public broadcasting, we would like to suggest that the parties make it absolutely clear at the first meeting of the Parliamentary Council on whether or not they will be able to broadcast. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0150par0014	Thank you. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0155par0017	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, when the Civil Charter was changing -- there is a contract -- that's what they said, that's not the kind of thing that happens in charity, posters, and so on, that's what the Justice and Development Party speakers said. It's not illegal to use your cell phone here. Although we have turned Turkey into an open prison, this is not a prison, and there is no cell phone ban here. Just as batteries and cables aren't banned, it's a modern instrument used by our friend and many members of the ruling party to prevent their own publications. How can you not use this cover, but put a paper bag in its place? If not, then no one can say anything about this mobile phone.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0156par0020	Bald attention!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0155par0021	But while we're doing this broadcast, we only publish our own MPs from their social media accounts.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0157par0023	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0155par0024	Tensions have been expressed about the withdrawal and publication of another MP. We see that he has his own right. You won't see the equipment here because we won't broadcast after our own friends have finished their talks. But in the speech of Republican People's Party lawmakers, an integral part of the mobile phone, we will not remove this device, which has no purpose but to facilitate the MP's work. Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0158par0026	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0159par0027	Mr. Lightning, you're welcome.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0158par0029	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, now, Mr. Bostanci has said that this matter will be evaluated in the Presidential Court, no doubt. However, this Parliament serves on behalf of the public, and there must be no business, no transactions, no rhetoric that can be hidden from the public. In that sense, we know that the Presidential Court has a different savings... and that there are no provisions in the Civil Code that can prevent that from happening. In this respect, Mr. Special said he only published the speech of his own MPs. Our friends also aired on our behalf yesterday, and the MPs of the parties outside of us should have no problem publishing our talks. We shouldn't hide anything from the public. I'm saying that in this sense, limitations or prohibition will not be equal to the will represented by this House. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0160par0032	Thank you. No limitations, no privacy in those Parliamentary studies, especially 24 hours live, no matter what time the talks continue. It's 21 o'clock in Sair times. The broadcast was released through television, through parliamentary television, until 00, which was already broadcast on the Internet after 9:00 p.m. So we have to abide by the rule of how the House broadcasts will be. In the same way, at the meeting with the group's vice presidents, we have prohibited the delivery of goods and goods, as well as the 65th article of the Civil Code, which also includes provisions similar to the 160th Amendment. Surely...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0161par0036	Mr. President, the Plan Budget Commission has the same, the Plan Budget Commission bought with money.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0160par0037	Just a second, let me finish.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0162par0038	The Plan Budget Commission has one just like it. The plan's in the Budget Commission. It's out of the budget.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0160par0039	We need to come up with a solution in the Presidential Court, which is that we're going to have a meeting with the members of the group who are likely to be chaired by our president in the near future. This product, the shape of the item, the size of it, you and I have no way of knowing. The work bases of the General Assembly are clear, and please, lawmakers, let us all observe these principles.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0163par0041	For God's sake, Mr. Aydın, why is this bothering you?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0164par0042	So the public wouldn't hear?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0160par0043	From time to time, of course, cameras, cell phones are used for taking pictures, there are partial uses, but to broadcast continuously, as if in violation of broadcast principles...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0163par0044	Have TRT or RTÜK take care of him.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0160par0045	Besides, I don't think it's right to do it with different appliances.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0165par0046	Is it just Yeliz?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0166par0047	Then ban the phone battery.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0160par0048	I'd like to ask all groups, please, about this...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0167par0049	Mr. President, look, the Plan Budget Commission got the same thing, the Plan Budget Commission got it himself, gave it to lawmakers.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0160par0050	The Plan Budget Commission can broadcast, the Speaker of Parliament can publish.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0168par0051	Can't the congressman do it? We'll do it.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0160par0052	But one-on-one, each member of parliament, 550 MPs here, doing different publications with different appliances...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0168par0053	What are you afraid of, what are you afraid of?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0160par0054	Congressmans, please, let's pay attention to the working principles of the House.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0168par0055	Why are you afraid of the people? What are you afraid of, what are you hiding?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0160par0056	Mr. Special has already stated that he will remove them after these talks are over.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0169par0057	We're not filming you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0170par0058	Mr. President, what do you mean, different broadcasts? How can a different broadcast be done here in the House? 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2018 2) The President's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Court's Central Management Final Account for 2016 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Constitutional Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2016 1) Supreme Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Prime Ministership 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2018 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2016 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The National Management Budget of 2018 2) The Editor-in-Chief for Religious Affairs 2016 Central Management Final Account E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Final Account for 2016
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0171par0105	Ankara MP Senal Sarıhan is now in charge. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0172par0108	Dear President, dear friends, I salute you all. Now, on the basis of a ban debate, I have made a commitment to discuss the budget of the Human Rights and Equality Agency. In essence, I'd like to start with yesterday. As I listened to Mr. Prime Minister yesterday, I tried to monitor and monitor his speech from the texts that had been distributed in our hands, and I tried to find out if there was going to be a sentence that was going to go through a whole speech that was going to mention the protection of human rights, and I saw on page three: our budget is that human-focused, prosperity and peace-seeking and the future, and that it is a budget that supports growth, employment, investment, and financial discipline. But unfortunately, the climate we're in probably won't let us say that. To say these things, there must be a reality in Turkey, a statement of that reality. I didn't want to be unfair, I went on -- she has human rights, the child has human rights -- did I say, would they say a sentence about the woman's human rights or the child's human rights? Yes, they say a sentence, they say: "We helped women, we helped women economically. It is not equal to men and women. It is a sentence that corresponds to an understanding that has absorbed it. How do you help women? Women are like men, and women are like men; but if you speak of your financial support for them, then support is a reward for their efforts. So if they're paid to take care of them because they're old at home, because they're taking care of children, because they're taking care of the disabled, the disabled -- which they should -- but that's the price of effort. There's only one sentence of child's rights again: we've developed child's rights. Yes, they have. In Aladağ, child rights were highly developed, and children's rights were highly developed in the dorms. We witnessed it. Now, I return to the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey. What has this institution ever done, what has it done in the past? In the past, it's very new from the date it was founded -- since it hasn't been able to do anything, it's received a lot of criticism from international control groups; it's been criticised only that the concept of equality, that human rights is not enough, that equality should be achieved, that discrimination should be avoided. After those criticisms -- a very short date -- we created a new institution here in 2016, after 2012. Dear friends, another friend of ours who spoke before me -- our friend from MHP, I believe -- referred to him. I'd like to point out that our critics may recall that our criticism of this institution has been ignored in accordance with the Paris Principles, the additional protocol for preventing torture, that it has not reached a desired structure. Something else happened after this was ignored, and the law was published in the Official Gazette on April 20, 2016. But the formation of the institution... which you know is how the institution is formed, in the form of an institution that represents the government entirely, is chosen from the people representing the President and the Prime Minister... or by their will. A year later, it was only possible to form a board. Now, I see they haven't submitted a report. If I'm being unfair, I want my friends to fix it because they didn't do anything. A year later, in March, there was no way a board could have done anything new in five or six months in a short time, but they really didn't do anything. They've made visits, we've seen them. We're entering their website, where the only available language is English and Turkish... because there is no other language in Turkey, because people with human rights cannot come to Turkey. You go on that site, you look at it, they visit the Minister of Justice. I wish the Minister of Justice had visited them. It's just five or six visits of this kind, and they went to an event abroad. Human rights in Turkey are loud and loud. It says, hundreds of thousands of people have been exposed, we have been expelled. They say, "We've been expelled." They say, "We've been tortured again." They say they've been tortured at the police station, they say they've been covered in blood all over again. Kids can't protect themselves, they can't do it anyway, because parents aren't sure their kids are going out on the street. Parliamentaries are arrested here, parliamentarians are arrested in Parliament. The contracts have been signed, and it is said that the choice is a right. Why is it right? What is the right of choice and the right of the chosen? He gathers all the rights of the chosen one, he is chosen, and he represents everyone. We have assembled and sent all men to the prisons. Now, we can't stand any sentence here that opposes corruption in any way. So, dear friends, if parliaments don't make proper laws, secure human rights with these laws, control environments where human rights are not guaranteed, what kind of conclusion and budget is there? The budget is right, but we don't have the budget we deserve. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0173par0116	Thank you. Now, it belongs to Ankara MP Murat Emir. Mr. Emir, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0174par0120	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a commitment to the Court department of the 2018 budget. Why is there a court? Because in modern democracies, transparency and accountability in modern states is the most fundamental element of accountability, and that is the instrument of being able to provide it. The Court oversees public institutions on behalf of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, and makes reports on the behalf of the Turkish nation, and conducts audits, and demonstrates controlability and transparency of public services and public expenditures, and so we have the opportunity to learn how Turkey's money is spent, its undamaged right to orphans. So, is this happening? I'm afraid not. See, the Court has various tasks, one of which will conduct performance inspections; the other will conduct financial audits; the other will prepare reports and present opinions beyond that, and will conduct judicial activities. Look, the Court doesn't do performance reviews, but I'd like to give you a brief review of the Court's performance. Now, audit reports are being released, but these audit reports are far from the truth. These reports are made up, censored, and all the elements that political will would not like or dislike are taken out of these reports, especially the criticisms, especially the criticisms of the purviews, which we do not see in these reports, unfortunately. Beyond that, the presentation of these reports to the Court is delayed. When you look at the financial reports, you see that the damage is no longer shown in the financial reports. This is makeup, and it means that public administration is hiding information from us, the National Assembly, that is, on the basis of the expense of the public budget. Dear friends, I'd like to give you some examples of what I'm saying. Now, you know, there's Halkbank and Halkbank is subject to Court control. However, you took the Entity Fund, and you missed the Entity Fund from the Court's audit, but the Peoplebank himself is subject to the Court's audit. And where were you when false exports were being used over the Halkbank for billions of dollars? If you weren't going to supervise this, if you weren't going to report it, what would you do? Look, it's said: "There's a conspiracy going on in our country in the United States." Yes, there may be, but shouldn't you have done your duty here so that the son of the hand doesn't conspire? Look, I want to point out that today, those who shout "complo, conspiracy" are the ones who obstruct court control and blindfold the Court. Beyond that, dear friends, look, there are problems with Ankara Metropolitan Municipality. The president has changed, you have replaced the president with the order, the new President is making a statement about ANKAAPARK. He says, "We believe that around 2 billion dollars have been spent, the work is going on, we don't know what's being spent." Isn't Ankara Metropolitan Municipality subject to the Court's audit? Why don't we know? Why can't we find it? I've been an Ankara MP for years -- two and a half years -- asking how much you've spent on ANKAPARK. If the Court won't tell me, why are we giving this court a budget? Where is the answer to that question? Look, there's been no reports of palaces, illegal palaces, illegal palaces. Let me go further, it's been delivered by the presidency, but the money paid to the illegal palace isn't in the balance sheet. How much money has been spent on this palace, brother, if you can't say so, why are you here? That's what we expect from the Court. And in fact, my criticism, of course, is not for the employees of the Court, but for those who have made the Court so emasculated. Look, there was an explanation here by the Prime Minister, who said: "Now, the age of wonder and despair is over." What kind of Prime Minister is that, a new Prime Minister or Prime Minister of a new power? No, he's Prime Minister of 15 years of power in the last two years. It's a confession, you're making a spectacle of yourself. But wasn't it the court that should have brought forth the glory and the debacle in its time? Look, I'm trying to give you as much time as I can. 2016 EGO report, Court report. I'm telling you how these reports are weak, how they're not reflected in reality, how they're censored and how they're for show. 2016 EGO criticises the Court, says you took out $411,296 in traffic insurance for nothing. So where's the rest of this? We don't know. How does he do his judicial activities? We don't know. We're publishing. They call it. If you read the terms, you'd think the private legal results, you'd think it was a divorce. Brother, I want to know who paid that $4 billion and who paid for it and what did it do to him? Isn't that our right to know? But when we ask them about it, they say, "We have issued the decree. Ilam is an empty prescription." Let's continue with the Ankara Metropolitan Municipality again. Look, he rented a helicopter that didn't exist in Ankara Metropolitan City, and paid $1,700,000 for rent, and paid for a helicopter that didn't exist.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0175par0130	Well, well, well! But he quit!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0174par0131	And that's in the 2014 ASKI report.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0175par0132	He quit, he's been cleared!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0174par0133	We don't know what happened.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0176par0134	He became an AK PARTY member when he resigned!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0174par0135	You can't be exonerated by resigning. I'll tell you what's worse. Look, the city rents the ACTI building to BUGSAŞ. BUGSAS, Metropolitan Municipality is conducting legal proceedings, sending executions, and the Court says in 2014 and 2015: "Sister, will a municipality's institution be sued, will it be paid in tuition? Look, billions of dollars of money has been paid to lawyers around here, and I know which lawyer it's paid to, and I've got a lot of cases with Melih Gökçek. And the lawyer he sent me is a lawyer who makes millions of dollars. If the Court will not supervise them, if it will not tell us, if we cannot make this inspection here, it is not for the Court, but for this million liras, or even five cents. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0177par0140	Thank you. Now...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0178par0142	Mr. President, you requested the minutes. The transcripts are here.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0177par0143	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0178par0144	In the transcripts, it's not a different comma than what I said, it's not a dotted comma. Mr. Bostanci said, "How moral is it to use these documents today (December 17th-25th) by naming them, referring to them?" The moral question here is the direct taunt of a personality, the taunting of his personality. We'd like to exercise our right to answer that question.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0177par0145	Now, Mr. Special, I've looked at the transcripts directly on any moral or conscientious matter to Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0178par0147	Would you read it, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0177par0148	I read it, it's on the table in the back right now. I asked for it. He's asking a question...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0179par0149	Open, open...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0178par0150	No...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0177par0151	He asks a question, is it ethical and conscientious? We read it together.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0178par0152	Yeah, he's telling her to use these.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0177par0153	So I can give Mr. Pine a minute instead of teasing him.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0178par0154	Mr. President, look, you're violating our law.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0177par0155	Protecting your law, protecting your law.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0178par0156	Look, read it, read the last sentence. Read the last sentence.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0180par0157	He's under suspicion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0177par0158	So, I'm reading the final sentence: Isn't it a moral and conscience problem, Mr. Musa, that the same gang had no public base during the coup attempt on December 17th, 25th, to use some of the materials it created to find environments that could be allied with it?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0178par0159	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0177par0160	..a morality and a conscience........
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0181par0161	I'm asking, Mr. President, I'm asking, I'm asking. I'll use it as a straight line; if I use it, then don't pick on me...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0177par0162	One question, one question.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0182par0163	Mr. President, we're all average minds. Please, don't do this to me!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0177par0164	Now look, Mr. Special, now...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0182par0165	Look, look, we're all at a certain level of intelligence.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0177par0166	That's exactly right.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0182par0167	Please, let's not be unfair to each other. Two minutes here, not a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0177par0168	That's exactly right, I've already given you those two minutes if I had to, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0182par0169	The basis for using this sentence is the reference of Moses Pine. Which is why that sentence is a direct abuse of personality rights. Please, Mr. President, I beg you...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0177par0171	Mr. Special, please, I've already called Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0182par0172	But that's something else.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0177par0173	We had to take a mandatory break. I'll give my word to Mr. Pine according to 60.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0183par0175	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0177par0176	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0184par0177	Not from my place, from the podium.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0185par0178	No, no... sir? Mr. President, look, you're being unfair, you're being unfair.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0186par0180	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0187par0181	Mr. President, he said it from the stand, and we're going to sing it from the stand.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0188par0182	Mr. Pine, I'll give it to you from your place to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0189par0183	Mr. President, no, that's not true, that's not true. It's not true, but don't do this.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0190par0184	Mr. President, if you open this road, there may be a lot of damaging questions here, so don't open this way.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0188par0185	Now, lawmakers, look, we've talked about this.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0190par0186	Mr. President, don't open this road; you can ask very hurtful questions here.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0191par0187	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0188par0188	I've had a break, I've had a mandatory break, and I've told Mr. Pine -- I've told you -- I'll give you my word according to 60, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0191par0189	Mr. President, look, it's a taunt of character, and you asked for the report there, it was a recess until the report came in...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0188par0190	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0191par0191	Now, if you say, "It's not the place," you'll have the right to the bench of Moses Pine. That's not true.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0188par0192	No, no, absolutely... I'll promise him his place. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Mr. Pine, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0191par0195	No, you're saying it's the other way around.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0192par0196	Right to the stand, right to the stand.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0193par0197	Look, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0194par0198	Hold on a second, fellas, I'm talking to your Deputy Group President. Please, Mr. Lawmakers... It means a lot, so I figured it out, and at this point, I said I was taking a break. Here, in the middle, not directly to the person of our Musa Pine Deputy, but to raise such a question, a question that he raised...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0195par0200	No, he says Mr. Pine. That's the last sentence! Last word, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0194par0201	Since the speech was made by Mr. Pine before...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0196par0202	He's name-calling.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0195par0203	No... last word, Mr. Pine, last word.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0196par0204	He's name-calling.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0197par0205	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0198par0206	Mr. Bostanci, let me hear you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0199par0207	He's giving us a name.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0198par0208	Mr. Bostanci expressed his presence, and he expressed his intention in the same way. Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0200par0210	Mayor, it's not worth taking this long for two minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0198par0211	It's not worth it... we would've given it to you by now if it had happened.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0201par0212	Mr. President, I think I have the average intelligence that Mr. Free Private is talking about.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0202par0213	You've got more than that.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0201par0214	And I know what I said.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0202par0215	You've got more than that.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0201par0216	And I know what I said. I could have said that as a direct sentence.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0203par0218	Well, apologize for a sentence like that.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0201par0219	Mr. Musa gave a speech here. I asked a question from here, pointing to a logical, incompatible situation in that conversation, or I would have been able to use a direct charge, a statement that would have gone into 69. I didn't use it that way.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0204par0220	Thank you. Mr. Pine, can I give you my word on 60?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0205par0222	No.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0204par0223	Okay. It belongs to Ankara MP Necati Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0206par0227	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0207par0228	No, on the stand, on the stand...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0208par0229	There's no such procedure!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0207par0230	Mr. President, it's a shame what you're doing, it's a real shame!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0208par0231	There's no such procedure!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0207par0232	It's a shame!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0209par0233	You're doing it wrong!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0210par0234	Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0211par0235	It's not right!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0210par0236	I know I did the right thing, and this coven is completely...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0211par0237	Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0210par0238	Look, Mr. Special, there's something strange going on today, and it's true what I'm saying, and I'm sure I'll do what I want. I'm sensing an approach like that.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0212par0239	That's not true!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0211par0240	No, no, that's a reaction to your sense of power!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0210par0241	That's not the right approach. Please... I'm trying to apply the Civil Code. Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0213par0244	I want to speak according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit03spe0210par0245	I'm taking a five-minute break. I'll give you my word later.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0210par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission and the government are in place. Now, if you'll just...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0214par0005	Mr. President, I was in the system, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0210par0006	Excuse me, Mr. Altay, I haven't seen him. Mr. Altay, I give you my word on 60.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0214par0011	Mr. President, just after you closed the General Assembly hearing, a member of the EC PARTY Group has taken action to take action against our Deputy Director, Free Special. This act of assault did not take place as a result of the obstruction of our MPs. Now, if I were to tell you that I demand action in accordance with the 160th article of the Internal Charter (5). You will say, "Sir, I have closed down my seat; I can't operate." I'm not saying this, but instead I'd like to address the MPs of the Republican People's Party Group: Shame on you if you can't take down a member of the Republican People's Party group who's turned to attack in this corridor for attack! Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0215par0015	We'll do whatever it takes, whatever it takes.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0216par0016	Don't defend violence. You're the vice president of the group. What kind of language is that?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0215par0017	To your death from now on!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0216par0019	Does it look good on you?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0215par0020	We'll do whatever it takes.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0217par0021	Mr. Altay, it's not appropriate for our House or our congressman. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0215par0023	We'll do whatever it takes.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0218par0024	Get out of here!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0217par0025	Congressmans, please. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0219par0027	Come on! Let's go! Come on! Come on, let's go. Come on, get over here!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0220par0028	Say the same thing again!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0219par0029	Come on, run over here!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0221par0030	I promised Mr. Bostanci, Mr. Lawmakers. Please, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0222par0032	Mr. President, when you take a break...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0223par0033	We'll see!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0224par0034	We'll see about that!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0223par0035	We'll see it outside.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0225par0036	You're the vice president of the group, act responsible, take care of your friend. What the hell! You're supposed to be the vice president of the group.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0223par0037	If you attack here, you'll see it there.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0226par0038	Mr. Ozkoch, please...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0223par0039	It's not like that!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0226par0040	Congressmans, this is your group vice president speaking, please...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0227par0042	Yes, Mr. President, when you took a break, I'm afraid there was an unacceptable incident here, but every incident develops within the context of a mutual relationship, and no one does anything out of the blue. (CHP rows) Wait a minute... I'm the one who tried to stop Mr. Alim there first. I, the Deputy President of the AK PARTY, would never accept such a thing. No party's deputy is directed at another person, and no matter what happens here, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't. I was the one who tried to stop him first; the friends here are witnesses. It's my duty to uphold the law of the House, and it's the duty of the Republican People's Party, and it's everyone's duty. It is clear here that we, all of us, as representatives of the will of the nation, will carry out our duties according to what rules. At times it may be anger, anger, etcetera, but it is also the duty of the group's vice president in the first place, to always act rationally and in cold blood. There was a verbal argument between Mr. Alim Bey and CHP Deputy Chairman Mr. Free Special, and then he used an absolutely unacceptable statement, Mr. Özgür Bey. That, of course, does not justify that behavior, but let's see the error of this statement.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0226par0045	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0227par0046	So it is our duty to continue here -- from the People's Party of the Republic, from the AK PARTY, from other parties -- to treat each other with kindness, and whoever acts in any way in a real way -- to face him together. That's what happened, as well, here, when there was an occasional sign of a break-in, so did the MPs from the Republican People's Party, and we all tried to calm things down by coming together. That's the law of the House. And since we're going to be working together from now on, I'd say it's a good idea to work on this law, this kindness. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0226par0048	Thank you. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0228par0051	Mr. President, after such tensions, it's a well-established practice for other group vice presidents to take the words instead of the sides of tension, and it's very appropriate, and we always do. But let's be clear when I say that Mr. Naci Bostancı is concerned about a period of time that is not under arrest, and an unacceptable expression. There's a prerequisite. The MP is someone who has had great relations with me in the past, and I've treated him with great respect, and one day he's here again during a tension, and I've been very wrong about you that day, and I'll never see you again. He's someone I haven't had any contact with since. When you closed the session today, did you tell me that you know everything about freedom? I stopped contacting you five or six months ago because I knew or saw what you were. I used a phrase. In Turkish, the expression "knowing what it is" means that the word "almal" in it is neither an object nor an animal. That means I know what you are.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0229par0054	But it's not a clean language.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0228par0055	Even if that is a bad word -- and I know it isn't -- and I know I don't have any regrets about it -- that's my feeling, that's my feeling -- it's incredibly unacceptable to start running from place to place to place. This group now protects its law because our group's deputy, who has suffered from it, is uncomfortable and does not protect our law with you and the AKP Group. And when you look at where it started, it's a situation that starts when you surrender to the testimony of a member of the group, you break your promise to Moses Pine, and then you shut down the session. There's no insult in my word, no reproach in my word, but to say my website and feeling. I don't want to make a statement during a fight with someone he said the best words to five months ago, but somehow it's someone who attacked him. Mr. Group Vice President's approach is that you don't respect our law...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0230par0057	Complete.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0228par0058	...the respect you don't show -- everyone knows what we do in similar situations -- is a reaction to the fact that you're applying enemy law to the Republican People's Party Group. It's that clear. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0230par0060	Thank you. Congressmans, the nation is watching us, watching all of us, and the dignity, honor of this House will be fixed by the words and actions of all of us, and together we must protect the law of this House and each of us.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0231par0064	You, most of all.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0230par0065	I beg you, Congressman. When we rule this House -- it's for everyone -- we can make mistakes, we have flaws, we can do wrong without knowing, we can do wrong, we can criticize, it's natural, it's supposed to be, but it's not right for any of us to use incriminating words, to use bad words, to insult them. Again, when you're talking, it's those situations where you're trying to create a real state of affairs that are extremely disruptive, disruptive, disrupting the working order of the House. We all have to respect that. Our Council of Parliament is very clear; the articles 65, 66, 67 are open, so I'll leave that to the side. Other than that, as lawmakers and as representatives of the nation right now, I'm saying that in public, the word and the bad deed also connect the owner, and in that sense, the nation points us all for our position here. That's what we call the House's reputation, that's what we call Parliament's law, and there may be shortcomings, mistakes, debates, the flow of things, and we can misunderstand each other, but what you are, let's not accuse each other, let's not criticize each other, let's not criticize each other, let's avoid words and actions that will undermine our law outside the House. Again, I'd like to thank you all for the sensitivity and sensitivity you've shown. This Parliament is the common assembly of all of us, the common assembly of this nation, the representative of the nation. Please, let us try to complete one another with our mistakes, our sins, our shortcomings. I, therefore, thank you for your sensitivity, and I say, what happens next, let's do the most severe criticism on this stand. Thank you all again. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2018 2) The President's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Court's Central Management Final Account for 2016 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Constitutional Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2016 1) Supreme Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Prime Ministership 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2018 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2016 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The National Management Budget of 2018 2) The Editor-in-Chief for Religious Affairs 2016 Central Management Final Account E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Final Account for 2016 In order to speak, I'd like to call Mr. Necati Yilmaz, the Ankara MP, to the stand. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0232par0118	Mr. President, Mr. Court, honorable lawmakers, I salute you and our fellow citizens who are watching us on the screen with respect, love, and hope that never ends. Members of parliament, if there is a word to sum up the fifteen years of power's practices, the adjective I will use without hesitation is defined; this is the adjective. In this period, all the gains of our 20 years of parliamentary system experience, all the qualities and beliefs of our 100-year-old republic have been disproved. But more importantly, there is another value that all beliefs, teachings, and even ideology seek legitimacy. It's the most precious morality that humanity has ever created that's based on all of this. Morality is also corrupted. Conscientious, dear friends, conscience. You have declared all those who did not submit to your persecution, who did not condone your corruption, as you did to Nuriya and Semih. You made people eat their bread, and you told them to eat the root of the tree. You've tried them as members of the organization, they've been acquitted. Now, I'm asking, if they're acquitted, if they're not guilty, why aren't they at work? You rotted when you rotted every value. Contamination was the basis of your understanding of governance. It's the backbone of your policies, we've seen, we've learned. And the amendment you made is very clear. There's no need for institutionalism, no rules in the party state you want to establish. The whole system is one person, one person who is not satisfied with his authority. Both the President and the Prime Minister and the head of the party. Of course, he does not honor the Constitutional Court's decision. Congressmans, if we are a democratic state of law, who will oversee this pleasure? We know that this power can no longer be audited financially. The Court has been disabled. Legally, it can't be inspected. The Supreme Court is in a hurry to look for a button in its robe during a tea gathering session. Parliament's control authority has already been revoked, and no more political supervision. As for the public inspection of the chest, the YSK is stealing it out of the box. Let's all do it together, El Fatiha to your soul. Yes, as for media control, the opposition press is being intimidated by operations, the supporting media is being fed one by one. And who will oversee this power? It seems the Constitutional Court, established as a guarantee of the rule of law, is completely under the control and control of politics rather than keeping the ruling party on a legal basis. I would like to make this historic reminder that in his letter to Hitler, the chief judge of the court of the Nazi regime, which led to the execution of thousands of opponents, the judge says: "If you were the judge who made the decision when our courts made a decision, we would make the same decision." History has judged and cursed these judges. Please get some people to take credit for this. This Constitutional Court is a self-denial court. This court can make two different decisions about the same incident. The Constitutional Court has made a decision in the process of plotting cases against our MP Mustafa Balbay.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0233par0122	Guys, he's threatening us from there.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0232par0123	This decision, which says that the long detention of an MP is a violation of rights, has now turned into the opposite of the decision on the Balbay-based MP Gulser Yıldırım.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0234par0124	Let him come, let him come, and let him come.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0232par0125	Mr. Veli Agha, I'd like to speak with you, if I may.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0234par0126	Tell him there.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0232par0127	I'm telling the president, then, I want your intervention.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0235par0128	Mr. Agha, please do not interfere with the speaker.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0232par0129	The same court, the same court, the same committee, but the decision is not the same. Why? Because one decision was made before the coup and the other after the coup, dear friends. This court is not only a court that denies itself, but also a court that destroys itself. The Turkish Cypriots willingly gave up control of the Constitution or not. The Constitution has rejected the commission and authority given to it. He rejected the demands without lifting the file cover, saying that he was not responsible for the objections to the KHK. The court has decided to reseal the Constitution. In a sense, it has opened the way to unconstitutionality, saying that it cannot be supervised during the state of emergency, so that it can do whatever it wants to do. Yeah, well, I'm telling you, with this decision, the 20th of July civil coup is complete. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, what would happen if a Supreme Court were to be removed with a State of Emergency decree? The court decided this by itself, and said: "You don't need to establish a KHK about shutting us down, we've already shut ourselves down with this decision." Yes, is there any need to budget this trial, which has self-destructed like a suicide bomb? The answer is, of course not. (Applause from CHP rows) The name of the court, which belongs to the palace, should be changed, and its budget should be paid through the palace's covered allowance, dear friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Where he has brought Turkey for fifteen years, the Supreme Court chief at the top of the judiciary said that confidence in the judiciary has descended from 70 per cent to 30 per cent. That was before the coup. I'm telling you now, go ask the citizen how many people have confidence in this judgment, go ask him. I told you, and I'm telling you again: you've shown yourself to society with religious sensibilities, you've used religious politics. If you're even remotely sincere about this, I'll tell you about a reference you can't refuse. They asked Lord Ali: "Does the state have a religion?" He replied: "There is, the religion of the state is justice." (HPP) The religion of the state must be justice. Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a statement regarding a very human matter, considering the amount of time that's been cut off. It concerns all of us. It concerns all of us, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0236par0136	Thank you. I didn't extend it for anyone, and I can't extend it for you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0232par0138	It's about a congressman with lung disease, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0236par0139	Okay, finish it, you had your word, but you had your time.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0232par0140	Well, my dear friends, for 15 years, I've been counseling in the House... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...our retired friend Celal Ozcan has been waiting seven months for a lung transplant.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0237par0143	Give me a minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0232par0144	That's the point, Mr. President. Is that okay?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0238par0145	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0232par0146	I'm telling you, for 15 years, our co-worker friend Celal Ozcan has been waiting for a lung transplant for seven months. In order for our friend, who has reached the final stage of his illness to survive, I call on all our citizens here: he is currently in Ankara High Medicine Hospital. I call on all our citizens to be sensitive about lung organ donation. I salute the General Assembly with respect, with conversation. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0239par0150	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Artvin MP Uður Bayraktutan is next in line. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0240par0154	Mr. President, I have been promised by the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court budget. I salute your high council. On July 20, 2016, the regulation on the property courts came into effect, and it was said that when the establishment courts came into effect, the charge of the Supreme Court and the State would be reduced. When you brought the requirement -- I remember well -- when the grounds were spoken here, 90 per cent of the Judiciary's workload would be reduced by 80 per cent, and 80 per cent of the Prosecutor's work load would be reduced. My dear friends, look, there's a chart here, about November, the number of files that come into the Supreme Court's criminal offices is 22,292, and the number of files that come out is 29.615. Again, the number of files that come to the law offices is 10,401, the number of files released is 29.199; this year's muscle, so as of last month, my dear friends. Now, at the coming point, in 2014, we increased the current number of members. We cut them down in 2016. We've also suggested our grounds for reduction. I don't know if the Minister is paying attention. My dear friends -- now that we've learned, according to the press -- have even heard that there will now be an arrangement for the Supreme Court concerning the State. From what we've learned, the palace has given us the necessary, we're increasing the number of members in the Supreme Court 100, and we're increasing the number of members in the Court by up to 26 or 30. Now, it turns into a suction pump; it comes out, it goes out, it goes out, it goes out, it goes out. The Supreme Court and the State Department have serious problems, but the most important problem is... Mr. Secretary, if this arrangement is to be made... if I know that... as a Republican People's Party MP, the deaf sultan knows that, too, there is this arrangement. There's something more serious, dear friends, that we've been informed that this arrangement will be passed before the Turkish Grand National Assembly passes through this regulation. Is that true, my dear friends, our fellow lawmakers in the AKP Group? If such an arrangement is to be corrected by a decree of the law that regulates the high judiciary, it is not possible to accept it, my dear friends. If you make such an arrangement, it will not be the judgment of the Republic of Turkey, it will be His Majesty's judgment, my dear friends, His Majesty's judgment. So, Mr. Secretary, I want you to be sensitive about this. Look, you'll get 100 new members for the Supreme Court, 26 new members for the State. Now, in this arrangement, according to our information, you are removing 17 years of border on the stand. You say: "There is no need to serve for seventeen years on the bench." What then? Sir, it's enough to be a first class judge. You know how much work it takes to be a first class judge? Thirteen years. Why 13 years? Now, there's a Hinduism in this, and it's in every arrangement the AKP has brought in. Why 13 years, Mr. Secretary? I thought about it, and I came up with an answer for him, Mr. Bozdağ, which is that the AKP was formed in 2002. When you put it this way, it's not enough for 17 years, guys, it's 2019. There are not enough judges and prosecutors for 17 years who have buttoned the way for prosecutors and buttoned the front of their robes. What do you want them to do? So, what are they gonna do? They're cutting it down to thirteen years so they can find judges and prosecutors to button it up, my dear friends. (CHP cheers) There's no way to accept that, Mr. Secretary, I'm making myself clear. Look, there are representatives here from the Supreme Court, from the Supreme Court. There's no way to accept that. There's something else. According to the current system, there's no fixed system in the Criminal General Assembly, there's no rule of law, there's a transformative system, you don't know which judge you're dealing with. Now, they're throwing out 100 high judges, bringing them into a stable system, making this place shady, my dear friends. It's hard to find who gets judged by who in the current system. But now they're doing this: look, the Supreme Court Public Prosecutor's Office has a method of appeal -- Mr. Secretary, you know that very well -- there is no such thing as a deadline. If you bring this arrangement, the Supreme Court of Appeals may apply to the General Assembly in connection with a verdict that was finalized 30 years ago, and make the decision as he wishes from the Criminal General Assembly, my dear friends. Can he do it? If this arrangement passes, he can do it. That's why we're dealing with a painting like this. I don't want to say anything about the prosecution. I'll tell you something, I'm a Congressman of Artvin, my dear friends. What I do know is that in my area, the base price of tea was determined by the director general. Can I tell you something? Give me an offer of law to determine the base price of tea for the Chief Prosecutor. Well, if it isn't the Chief Prosecutor, who collects tea. Didn't he collect tea, Chief Prosecutor? I've looked at the Chief Prosecutor's statements, and you know what he said, ma'am? Sir, this April vote has strengthened the separation of forces. I wondered, there is no way that this is a law school graduate.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0241par0161	I'm sure it's Burhan Hodja.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0240par0162	In fact, I've got all the IDs out, no one considers them disrespectful, Mr. Secretary of the O.T.I.A., and I'm a graduate of Ankara Law School, and I'm proud to say, the lady has graduated from O.T.I.A. A law school graduate can't put together such an arrangement on the principle of separation of forces, my dear friends. There's something wrong with everything that's been done about the prosecution. I don't accept a court president trying to button up his robe, I strongly protest, I condemn my dear friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] His Majesty's Office has decided that it is treason to mine in Cerattepe's decision earlier." The prosecutor's office will almost applaud that decision today. Your Majesty's State Department is my dear friends in this business. Look, don't make these arrangements about the State and the Supreme Court, if you do this, if you make arrangements about it, this weapon will come, this political climate will turn, it will come with the weapon you've made, my dear friends, and they'll shoot you. It's not right to do that.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0242par0167	It'll be like a 2010 referendum.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0243par0168	He's back, he's back.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0240par0169	Look, we begged you at the 2010 referendum, and we said, "Don't do it, don't do it, let's sacrifice, you're handing over justice to a gang." The President-General said that you had appointed 120 militants to the Supreme Court. Mr. Secretary, are you going to pickle those 120 millitas, where are they? Where are these militants? Where are these militants, sir? He's 120... (Applause) Think of the judgment of a country, 16,000 judges, look at 4,000 of his prosecutors, and I say, shame on the government who delivered one quarter to the Fetullahist terrorist organization, and I say, shame on you, my dear friends. (HPP) As you were saying, we were eating bombs together that night. Mr. Secretary, we were here together that night, on the evening of July 15th, while some of you were carrying out the eunuchs, I was here eating bombs. You're the ones who gave them these things in golden trays, opened the highway, we didn't open them, my dear friends. So, once again, I warn the government that making arrangements for the Supreme Court is playing with fire, Mr. Secretary, so please don't play with fire, do what you have to do, do what you have to do, don't do what you have to do, don't do what you have to do. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0244par0172	The order now belongs to İstanbul MP Gürsel Tekin. Mr. Tekin, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0245par0175	Mr. President, dear MPs, I have a question for Mr. Bozdağ, first of all, and then I have some constructive suggestions for you, and you always say he has to make suggestions that are constructive. First of all, we all have a case of Reza, which the world is closely pursuing. We saw two days ago in Reza's case that I ran December 17, December 25th. It appears that a member of the Police who had already been arrested and released in February 2016. The minister of the period was Mr. Bozdağ. Now, I wonder, how did this citizen get out of this country to create this much disgrace, especially to frame our friends? It wasn't enough, it wasn't enough that he was released, how did this citizen walk away today when scientists in this country couldn't go abroad for a conference? I want the answer to that question. Second: My proposals... have been constantly brought to the attention of these problems in the cities, especially outside Parliament and Parliament. Ben brought up our various friends all the time. When we said you were handing the cities over to the concrete lobby, we were faced with some serious insults in return. Until when? Mr. Erdogan, we betrayed Istanbul. After he said, everyone was silent. (CHP clapping in rows) Maybe some things can be noticed later. Not enough, Mr. Prime Minister said: "We have done evil to Istanbul. There are zoning thefts in Istanbul and Ankara." Now, let's take all these experiences as a myth, at least let's see where you come back from, in terms of profit, I have a suggestion for you. Mr. Secretary, as a government spokesman, I'd appreciate it if you'd take notes. In Istanbul, in particular, I would like to remind you of many places in Istanbul, where the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has now launched a tender, reminding you of a period when we were facing earthquakes: 1) The Florya Police School in Copperville. So there's only one place left for us to breathe in Copperville, and now it's being auctioned off by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. 2) You know as well as I do that this belongs to the National Real Estate, which you have given to the people before, which is right below the Small Czechmece, which is now the prisoner. There's 20 acres of land right next to it, the woodshed and the nursery, and this one's in the tender.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0246par0182	Yesterday, the Mayor of Copperville was attacking the workers.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0245par0183	I'll be there, don't worry.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0246par0184	Yeah, get over there; one worker's dead.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0245par0185	3) There is no place for you to breathe between small shoot and hunters. This is the University of Marmara, a million square feet. There's a contract right now, four-pronged tenders. I'm asking you, if you're not taking us seriously at least, I'm asking you to stop this place by taking what Mr. Erdogan said seriously. You know Levent, the average, every citizen who goes to Istanbul knows very well. When you raise your head on the level -- on your right, on your left -- there's only one place in the Central Bank at Levent, where it's now in the tender. It hasn't been enough, for a long time, and unfortunately, in any city in Turkey, including Istanbul, where you have failed to do so, there's been a disaster for almost fifteen years in what you call a urban transformation, an urban disaster, in what you call a city. And when you look at all of these places, most of them are voters who voted for your party. That's what we're getting at right now, misery. I have a suggestion to resolve this mess: There is a place in your Ministry of Ideatype. This place was auctioned off first, then canceled. Right now, there's no known outcome, but there's been no construction. It's going to be a huge contribution to the immediate cancellation of this to ensure this urban transformation. I'd like to pass on my proposal to you. Most importantly, you know, you can see two green areas in cities: one, graveyards; two, military areas. All military areas have been transferred to your ministries, various institutions. At the very least, I suggest that these military areas -- 15 million Istanbulers can breathe -- are used as areas of parking spaces and donuts without being touched. There are many more places in Istanbul. All of this would be easier, since the places I've told you are the places that belong to the government. Other than that, there are 53 places that shouldn't be built. Finally, we only have Silivri - Istanbul MP friends who know Silivri - as an agricultural site in Istanbul - and unfortunately we have two districts left. Five million square metres of agricultural land is being developed in Silivri. Don't let that happen. In the coming days, our friends and I will go to Silivri, and we will share it with the public. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0247par0192	Thank you, Mr. Tekin.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0248par0193	Mr. Gürsel, I expected you to come to Copperville.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0245par0194	I'll speak if I'm promised.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0247par0195	Now, it's time for Istanbul MP Mahmut Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0249par0198	Dear President, I salute you all with respect and respect. I have made a promise on public supervision. It was an institution needed to be established in Turkey under the 74th Article of our Constitution. But why was it needed, and why should it be built? Because of the poor functioning of the administration, because public services were not done properly, and because of the lack of integrity, favourability, and partisan behavior in the country, there really was a need. Well, you needed an ombudsman. What is this? The quality of service of both administration, the settlement of good governance, the development of human rights, the establishment of the rule of law, and the development of right-seeking culture. So what does public supervision really mean when we look at it in this sense? It's called,ombudsman, but the Society of Public Control is confused. In most places, it's used by the Lambudsman, with very little use of public supervision. Now, when we look at the name of the law, if the public audit agency is passing through, it's either going to give up the word "ombudsman" or it's going to have to be changed by law. When we look at it, it is referred to as the guardian of the state of Canada, Austria and Romania, as the public defender of civil rights in Poland. So, who's this public defender really against, who's he with? In fact, the public inspector should be neutral and independent. So, when you say that you should be neutral and independent, is this really the practice in Turkey, in this case? The application in Turkey is not in this situation. Why isn't he in this situation? When we look at it, there are political parties in Turkey -- I don't make distinctions and so on -- there are leaders in Turkey. If there is no party democracy in a country with the leader's sultan, if the chosen ones are members of the parties, there is no way that the Public Control Agency can make a decision against that political party. What do you mean? Mr. President of the Public Control Agency -- I respect the witness -- but he was a member of the EC PARTY, the President's Chief Counsel. We're coming to the other members, one of whom was the MP of the AK PARTY, another of our friends' wives was an AK PARTY candidate, and our other friend was a member of the city council of the EC PARTY. Well, friends, if you take the president from the AK PARTY, if three of the four members are members of the AK PARTY themselves, and the other is because of counseling, you can't expect him to control the public from this, friends, we're deceiving ourselves. What would that be? Sir, there'll be a job opening, a position, a place opening.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0250par0202	You've got it all wrong.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0249par0203	It'll give someone a job.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0251par0205	It'll be barley!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0250par0206	Look at his work. Look at all this work!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0249par0207	I'd like to say, look, this presidential system... who did this study report? He's a public inspector. Be wary of Allah, you don't perform the work of the state of emergency, you don't perform the rules of the law, you don't perform the work of the workers, you don't perform the subcontractor, you don't perform democracy, you don't practice what? What you're doing is running for president. And who did you make talk about that? There's a professor who's been talked to again, the President's Chief Counsel, his beloved wife, a law school student at my time, and a congressman whose AK PARTI ranks respect him. How is that neutral? Look, what did you just do? We say, "Ombudsman must be neutral." We say, "He must have nothing to do with his party." Friend, you've come to the ranks of the AK PARTY, yet that emotional connection hasn't been severed in your head. You've visited ministers so far, why are there three opposition parties, and you haven't visited three opposition parties? He visited other ministers and explained it here, ombudsman. Ombudsmanism should not be a place with a bowing hand to power. What does he do in that sense and in the end? Regarding the matter spoken in parliament, sir, it says: "Why should the court be given a marriage to a subcontractor and not given to a mufti?" How do you bring the officer and the subcontractor together? [[Applause from CHP rows]] So, what you're saying here, these visits, etcetera, is not a compromise of ombudsmanism. So, in that sense, here, in fact, is your connection to the media. What did you say to the National Movement Party after the coup? They'll go, they'll see the crowd there. Oh, man, you're messing with the CHP, you're fucking with the MPP, you're fucking with the HDP. What agency is that? You still don't know what institution you're in, you're not serious. It's not a political zone, it's a freedom of rights. Human rights existed before they became government. Laws limit rights, laws deny rights, but those rights are what we were born with. This has to defend our rights to the Public Control Agency. We made complaints about Cizre, what did you do? We filed complaints about Şırnak, what did you do? You've responded to all of them. Where are the human rights, where are the human rights? Regarding the state of emergency, Article 129 of the Constitution states: "No criminal action, no disciplinary action, no disciplinary action can be given to public officials without their testimony, without their defenses. "O Constitutional Court, O Prosecutor's Office, O People's Watchman's Office, this Constitution does not bind you, what does it bind you to? Is the palace tying it up? (CHP cheers) We're saying that international contracts, constitutions that bind us... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the universal principles of law... you've put all that aside. There are good intentions among you, we respect that. Look, the previous Public Control Agency worked better than this existing institution, and you've been able to search the old one. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0252par0218	No, no, that's better.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0253par0219	Thank you. It belongs to İzmir MP Ahmet Tuncay Özkan (Izmir). Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0254par0223	Mr. President, dear friends, I'm here to present our views on the budgets of the National Intelligence Agency and the National Security Council, our party's views. The state is a hierarchy of institutions, and what sustains the state is the power of those institutions, not the powers that we call them, but the powers that those institutions produce by working, by producing. Unfortunately for both of our institutions today, we claim that military custody has been eliminated, that the National Intelligence Agency has become a civilian. When we claim that the National Security Council has been civilized, the situation has been very upsetting to me and to my party. The fact that Turkey had established a commission in the Grand National Assembly on this issue meant that the Justice and Development Party would have a major change that we've wanted for years and years. So it's an auditable national intelligence agency, an auditable national security committee. The Justice and Development Party has taken a very positive step towards this and has established a permanent commission in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but unfortunately we are not running the commission. We're calling the Undersecretary of MIT to the commission, he's not coming, he's not coming, even though the AKP members want to. We want information on the commission, not given. The commission can never be audited. So what happens in the unsupervised MIT? I'm very sorry to inform you that I would like to have the Undersecretary of the MIT who was sent abroad about three months ago... to be here for an operation against the PKK, and I would love for him to respond, and I would love for him to come to the Commission, and I would love for the Justice and Development Party, which you say you founded to bring down bureaucratic oligarchy, to be run by the bureaucratic oligarch of MIT.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0255par0227	Deputy Undersecretary's here.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0254par0228	Then let's ask the Assistant Undersecretary: Why don't you inform the Commission about this operation when they have the four senior OSCE heads you tasked to capture and bring the PKK's senior executives to Turkey?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0255par0229	Give it to me in writing.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0254par0230	We asked them in writing, they wouldn't give it to me. My friends on the committee are here, and we've been talking about it all the time. We want to know how, with what operation, our employees, our government officials, our security and intelligence personnel, were captured, were also alleged to have been involved with the heads of the agency -- related to the MIT. We want to know about this, Mr. Secretary, we want to bring criticism. What mistakes did the National Intelligence Agency make? Since the National Service of the National Intelligence Agency, the word,, has been referred to as,,, since the national service of the United Kingdom. The organization of the National Intelligence Agency is on the battlefield, from the Military P Agency to today. But does anyone today know what operations the National Intelligence Service has engaged in and why it has not shared these operations with its people, at least with the results, or with the Commission in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? Why would the Undersecretary of MIT not want to inform the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? The Chief of Staff will come forward, others will come, but the Undersecretary of MIT won't come. Why? Why? Do you want the bureaucratic oligarchy, the security oligarchy to rise and rise so much? If you don't want it, then is it connected somewhere else? Why did you make arrangements for the National Intelligence Agency with a decree of law enforcement, my friends, and why did you allow it? If we had discussed that legislation at the Turkish Grand National Assembly, if we had contributed to it, maybe our proposals would have cleared Turkey's path, why didn't you want to hear it? If we're all going to fight the oligarchy system in Turkey, why didn't you want us to contribute if we're going to change the security oligarchy? Why was this done under a decree of law? For example, why did you give the President the power to trade? Is it your intention to take the office heads that are in the hands of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) today?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0256par0233	Zarrab, Zarrab.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0254par0234	If we don't make a contribution, you'll be in the position of the Minister of Health if you run a monogamous operation. When you want to clean up a cult, you fall into the hands of another cult. (HPP) If you want to run a monogamous operation, we'll face the problems we've had with Zarrab. Imagine a national intelligence agency -- yesterday, Mr. President expressed here -- if there is no memo on him, if the National Intelligence Agency is not writing a memo on the work of a man named Zarrab, let him lock the door. If he doesn't say so, whose agency is that, what agency is that?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0257par0235	Your palace, your palace.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0258par0236	The palace intelligence agency.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0254par0237	Who's he working for? Is Turkey protecting the person? Is he protecting Zarrab, protecting the state? Friends, if we are on a ship and the direction of this ship is Turkey's happiness, peace, well-being, let's contribute, let's all argue, everything that isn't discussed rots. If you're destroying one parallel structure to another, you're channeling the security of the state to one person or to one person's wishes, and the security oligarch is stuck between the two lips of that person, and you can't change that, then there's a big disease, and we're dealing with a big problem. I repeat: In recent studies as the National Intelligence Agency, you will bring Abdullah Ocalan, the terrorist leader, here, and you will make it a world achievement, a pride to Turkey; in 16 years' time, the same organization will lose its heads of agencies, who have all the information they have to fight that organization. And it is not evil for you to keep silent, nor to hoard under the carpet. We have to talk about this evil, we have to discuss this evil. If we deliver evil, evil, this country, we can't do good, we can't do good, we can't evolve from bad to good. There's an oligarchy order in the National Intelligence Agency, so let's change this oligarchical order by talking to each other. Let him come, let him answer, let him say what I did, what I didn't do. Let him say it's wrong, it's true. Let him say it's wrong, and let the National Security Council continue to work as national security, not as individuals, but as the national security of the state, and let us tell you this -- if we experience the scourge of the Ministry of Health -- it's bad for you. I salute you all, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0259par0242	Thank you. The order is for Istanbul MP Eren Erdem. Your Grace, please.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0260par0246	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0261par0247	Come to Copperville, to the workers' rights.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0260par0248	... I'd like to ask you to show your sensitivity to the telephone equipment...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0261par0249	Come to labor rights.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0260par0250	If you have a problem, please come to the stand, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0261par0251	I hope you get the workers' rights in Copperville.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0260par0252	If you've got a problem, come talk from here, don't talk from where you're sitting.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0262par0253	Let's not interfere, please, lawmakers.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0260par0254	We'd expect you to show your sensitivity to the telephone equipment when you're being transformed into the instrument of the House of Parliament.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0263par0256	Come on! Come on!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0260par0257	We think it's good not to be too busy dealing with these instruments.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0264par0258	Is that your place?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0260par0259	Now, I've made a commitment to the budget of the Ministry of Religious Affairs.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0265par0260	You're saying the worker's right. Tell him the worker died yesterday in Bakırköy.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0260par0261	Sir, if you want to talk, get in here, talk from here, don't talk from there.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0265par0262	Come on, come on!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0266par0263	You go ahead, you go ahead.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0267par0264	He's the institution's imam.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0268par0265	I've been promised the budget for the Ministry of Religious Affairs, dear friends. The Ministry of Religious Affairs budget is one of Turkey's largest and most comprehensive budgets. Now, the inputs of this budget, outputs, interest revenues, content, content; these were discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission. I'd like to highlight some issues regarding the institution's purpose, what this purpose has come to in 15 years. One of Turkey's most important institutions is to discuss where its purpose came from. Now, the services of the Ministry of Religious Affairs budget, the community's service of faith, the reading of the proper borders, are being done in a very comprehensive way, from their publication. Now, a member of the ruling party used a statement here last week, and he said: "The Erdoğan is our god." That's the word word, it's in the transcripts. Erdoğan is our god. There are friends among you who know Arabic.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0269par0268	What's a temple?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0268par0269	What's a temple, fellas? Mazut, what do you mean, God?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0270par0270	Our God.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0271par0271	No way.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0272par0272	Don't you know it's not?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0273par0273	What's a temple?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0271par0274	Could it have been a slip of the tongue?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0273par0275	So when he does it, it's a slip of the tongue, not a slip of the tongue when someone else does it.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0271par0276	Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0273par0277	It's all a slip of the tongue, don't do that, it's not like that.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0271par0279	Where are you going?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0273par0280	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0274par0281	Is it a temple?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0271par0282	Where are you? Where the hell have you been?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0273par0283	What do you mean, God? I'm asking a question, what do you mean, God?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0271par0284	You're gonna have to work on that. Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0273par0285	Mazut, I refer to his friend who mentions this word to the Religious Works. Did they go out and make a correction?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0275par0287	Deliver him to God, for God is partial to the affairs of the Holy Spirit.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0273par0288	Did they make that correction?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0276par0289	Done.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0277par0290	He did it, he did it.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0273par0291	They didn't.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0278par0292	Religious Affairs is biased, transfer it to Allah.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0273par0293	Let's go. The Minister is here.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0279par0294	Come to the budget, to the budget.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0280par0295	Who is it? Explain your name.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0273par0296	You know, it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0281par0297	Yeliz, Yeliz.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0280par0298	State your name.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0273par0299	I'm not explaining because he's not here.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0280par0300	Say it, explain it, explain it.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0282par0301	He fixed it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0283par0302	Yeliz, Yeliz. Mr. Secretary, Yeliz.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0284par0303	Ahmet Hamdi Çamlı, your MP.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0285par0304	Address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0286par0305	Yeliz, Yeliz. You know Yeliz.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0284par0306	Ahmet Hamdi Çamlı, your MP, isn't here. Now, Congressman, look, the Minister is here. After Reza left for America, the Minister made a statement. You know what he said? Look, I'm going to say word for word: "Reza has been confessed." He said.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0287par0308	He's the defamer.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0284par0309	Look, all right, you call him the bastard, I declare the Minister's word, if you've got a fortune for him, you put it on him. Reza had been confessed. He said, "They had also slandered Mary and Ayþe the Holy One at the time." Did you say that, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0288par0311	Yes, he did.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0284par0312	So he brings it with the focus that Reza had slandered, so the focus he was slandering is the political power and the Holy Mary compares it to Ayþe. Now, Mr. Secretary, there are signs in the Qur'an that the Holy Virgin and Ayþe are clean, that she is chaste, that she is pure. Is there such a sign for you as you explain? (CHEERING) How can you say such a thing? Can you say such a thing? Did the Head of Religious Affairs say anything about this? He didn't say anything about it either.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0289par0313	He can't say, transfer them to God because of the religious affairs of the minister.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0284par0314	Now, a former minister of yours...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0290par0315	Transfer them to the palace.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0284par0316	During a visit to Ramadan, a former minister of yours said during a conversation: "The Prophet became arrogant after the conquest of Mecca. Didn't he say?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0291par0317	He did.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0284par0318	You heard it with your ears, didn't you? Mr. Group Vice President, did you hear that? Where did you read about the arrogance of the Prophet? By God, you've read from a different book and from a different source, and we don't know?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0292par0319	What did Commander Sav say? Tell me about the Leader Sav.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0284par0320	How can you say such a thing? Why didn't you judge who told you that? You can't.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0292par0321	Tell me about the Leader Sav. Don't talk about people, talk about things.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0284par0322	Has the Ministry of Religious Affairs criticised it? He didn't. Can he? He can't.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0292par0323	You're talking about people.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0284par0324	Why? Because this institution has been transformed into an institution to protect the interests of political power, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0292par0326	What did Commander Sav say? The Prophet insulted the Lord. Your MP insulted the Prophet.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0284par0327	Now, look, fellas, let me tell you one of the best things that the Religious Works have ever done:
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0293par0328	Cora, you're not old enough...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0292par0329	If he's going to make a speech, I'm sure your deputies...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0293par0330	How old are you? You're not old enough for him.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0294par0331	Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, guys, hold on. After July 15th, the report published by the Ministry of Religious Affairs, look, the report is taken.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0293par0333	What's he saying?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0294par0334	An extraordinary report, an extraordinary report.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0293par0335	Cora, listen.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0294par0336	Well, I'm very curious, why didn't he publish a report like this before July 15th, when we were actually participating in such a serious analysis -- which, literally, we are, literally, as a group -- and he had the savings? I wonder if you were walking the road together at the time, and they didn't publish it out of concern. Why didn't the Ministry of Religious Affairs expose such dark structures on that day, and then, after July 15th, he came to the point of displaying them?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0293par0337	After 250 people became martyrs.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0294par0338	It's too late, there's been a coup attempt in the country, friends he was supposed to be doing business with that day, sir, he's not doing anything. Look, my friends, Master Ali Shariati -- which is an important name -- says something very important, saying that only religious leaders could deceive a religious community in the name of religion. Now, come see, I'll show you a few things: what works in the affairs of the Diabetes? It's forbidden to hold the woman's hand. &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Be empty by SMS. &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;At the point of divorce.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;I'll show you a few things.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;It's forbidden to hold the woman's hand.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;i&gt;i&gt; Look, one of our former presidents of the Religious Affairs, Ali Kumoglu, says: "Now there are structures that give fetishes according to the customer." Dear friends, there are fetishes at the point of divorce with the SMS. Do you think such an institution deserves such a large budget? And I'm going to ask you another question: how much of the budget of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, the budget of that institution, of the Religious Affairs, do Alevis and non-Muslims get in this country, my friends? Don't they pay taxes on this country?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0295par0342	They're paying.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0294par0343	Don't they have the right to receive the status of their services, Congressman?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0296par0344	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0294par0345	If you say there's a law, let's pass it together. I salute you, too.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0297par0348	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0298par0349	Here you are, Mr. Bostanci, according to 60...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0297par0352	Mr. President, thank you. At the entrance of his speech, Mr. Eren Erdem has compared the House to a piece of junk, an inappropriate analogy. The House consists of four parties, the center of the people's will. This is a place that serves within the law, the law, the Civil Code. It is the people who choose the assembly, and it is the people who answer to it. I'm making this correction first, in case it's useful to speak of them knowingly and pay attention to them. Secondly, Mr. Ahmet Hamdi Çamlı, the deputy of our group, stated that he used this expression under a slip of the tongue and that he was not our God yesterday as a result of his application to the Parliamentary Assembly. Indeed, Allah is the only Lord of the people who have faith. There is no deity except Him. This is how the faithful look at God. A slip of the tongue wouldn't be right to come here and speak on the floor of the House. It's not appropriate to abuse a speaker if such survivors don't talk to paper here at all times. Another thing, yes, Mr. Secretary will answer, of course, but religious anecdotes are for people, and that's why they make metaphors over them. Finally, a reminder of the Prophet, the Prophet, always said he was a man, sent as a mercy to all mankind. Every step of his life has had some problems, from time to time, with divine wisdom, because he will set an example for us, for ordinary people, for their faults, and for those who live this life. In fact, I think he's referring to the fact that a blind man in the valley of Abese approached him and the Prophet frowned and turned his back on him, and continued to speak to the rich man of Mecca. This is meant to be an example to people, so do not do so. It is intended to remind them of divine judgment through the life of the Prophet. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0299par0359	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0300par0362	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, even if we accept what our Ahmet Hamdi Pine friend said by his slip of the tongue, you have created an idol, you worship an idol. It is not possible to accept his words. If he is a bit sincere in his words, if he really means that he is speaking in a slip of the tongue, then as a believer, he should take back what he said to his friends, who, as a Muslim, did not know what he was accusing in front of him. Who is it We have created, and who is it that we worship? This friend is not sincere, this friend is not well-intentioned. Whatever's in this friend's mind, whatever's in his heart, it's in his mouth. We don't trust this friend's sincerity, his kindness, I want it to be known. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0299par0364	Thank you. By the way, lawmakers, of course, I'd like to express my opinion that each of us should use a more careful language on the values we believe in. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2018 2) The President's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Court's Central Management Final Account for 2016 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Constitutional Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2016 1) Supreme Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Prime Ministership 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2018 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2016 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The National Management Budget of 2018 2) The Editor-in-Chief for Religious Affairs 2016 Central Management Final Account E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Final Account for 2016 Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the final speaker is Hatay MP Serkan Topal. Here you go, Mr. Clumsy.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0301par0415	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I agree with my fellow speaker, Mr. Eren Erdem. Amongst those who pay taxes are citizens of Alevi. Now that the ECHR has decided, let's bring legal status to the Jalebras' camisoles. If you're really sincere about this, that's what we're waiting for. Dear friends, I have listened to the Minister's presentation on the commission. In his speech, they said what needed to be prepared for disaster and to reduce the risk, to do during the disaster, to try to heal after the disaster, and that's what had to happen. But what is the most important thing of all, Minister? A vision, a reduction of risk. What have we done to reduce the risk? We didn't do anything. Now, look, vision is very important. Before Noah built the ark, there was no rain or even a cloud. Government's not run by estimates. Look, in the 2016 budget, AFAD was earmarked for $1 billion, at the end of 2016, $3 billion 443 million, three times as much. Mr. Secretary, I'm asking if there's any predictions about this. Also, he keeps saying that 30 billion dollars have been spent, Mr. President. Mr. President has asked us this dozens of times, and I'm asking you once again: how was this 30 billion spent, where was it spent, what ministries spent by hand? Look, you passed a law in 2004, closed private accounts. And when private accounts were closed in 2004, you said, "These are the source of corruption." How and how money is spent, it cannot be inspected. In 2004, you closed private accounts. But that's what I said in my previous AFAD speech, (E) in the 79th article of the Cetveli (E) says, Mr. Minister, the 79th article of the Cetveli (E) is referred to as a private account in order to ensure immediate assistance. Expenses from the private account are exceptional except by Law 5018 and Law 4734. What do you mean, "except"? Except by the court's supervision. Minister, if I'm wrong, you can come and fix it here. Is the spending of money transferred to a private account exceptional to the Court's audit or not? So, now, if we can't ask for all this money as lawmakers, if we can't answer for it, what do you say to the people that you can't answer for? 30 billion dollars is being spent, see, $30 billion is being spent, but when traffic jams in the middle of Istanbul, a Syrian girl was warming up with exhaust gas so she wouldn't freeze in that cold, remember? Didn't the consciences hurt? Where was 30 billion dollars spent? Where was 30 billion dollars spent? I'm gonna ask you one more time.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0302par0422	We've told you 30 times, we'll tell you 31.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0301par0423	Unfortunately, there were 450,000 Syrians in Hatay and 30 billion in Hatay alone, where there were terrorists from various countries, many groups from various countries. Unfortunately, they were trained, trained, and sent back to Syria to fight in Hatay, and in many provinces of Turkey. I hacked into the Treasury Undersecretary's website and looked at the central management debt statistics. Turkey's gross foreign debt stock in 2002 is 129.6 billion dollars, $432.4 billion in the second quarter of 2017; 3 times more. I speak to the great Turkish nation: in 2002 every newborn baby was born in debt of $2,000, whereas today, in 2017, the government was born in a certain and total debt of $5,000. You can look at the statistics. Treasury Undersecretary central management debt statistics, all of this is real. Dear lawmakers, in 2002 the diesel was $1.30, and the wheat was 40 cents, so the farmer sold 3 kilos of wheat for 1 litre of diesel. Today, however, our farmer has to sell 5 liras of diesel and 6 kilos of wheat. I thought the economy was good. Where's the booming economy? Where's the rising economy? My dear people, they deceive you, deceive you. I thank you, all of you, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0303par0430	Thank you. Thus, the talks on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group are completed. Now it's time for the People's Democratic Party Group. The first word on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group belongs to Mersin MP Dengir Mir Mehmet Fırat. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0304par0437	Mr. Court, my dear fellow congressmen, I salute you with respect and love. The 2018 Year Budget Bill that is being discussed today is a law that is very, very important to me, as it has always been. The logic of the establishment of parliament is based on this law. Because parliaments -- for the first time -- have been established to determine where and how taxes are being collected from the public. And when we look at the history of Turkey's Parliament, I don't think budget talks have been considered in the same way as today. This is a very important law, and today the lines of Congress are empty. I remember very well, you remember that one of the most important days in the pre-September 12th 1980 parliaments was the start of budget talks, and it usually lasted a month, so the parliamentary talks lasted a month, and the leaders spoke on the first day, and all of Turkey -- because of its televisions that didn't exist that day -- listened to these conversations at the beginning of their radio station. These conversations would take at least five hours per person. A Ironel, behind him a Erbakan and other leaders would talk for hours, but in a manner of kindness and kindness, and they would talk for hours, and it would be completely full at this time, and it would never come for a month at this time. On that day, the MPs had no advisers, no speech prepared; each MP himself would work for months in that library in the back and prepare their speech. Because budgets are government, nation's DNA. It is possible that the direction politics is moving in, the direction the economy is going in, can be resolved based on this law. However, if you listen to such an important law as avoiding it, then it would be possible to come to the logic of why parliaments have been renewed 60 per cent or 70 per cent in each election. Because politics, especially the political doctrine of lawmakers, was done in this Parliament, where precious older brothers, those with experience, showed how to prepare for fellow lawmakers who came after him, how to study the budget. Beyond that, leaders would already be in that five-hour conversation, but without insulting each other, in respect and love, they would tell each other that politics is a matter of respect, ethics, and behavior. But we became that -- especially after 1980 -- the group meetings that were closed to the press before were turned into an election arena, and I'm afraid that even children have to listen and watch, because it's not morally appropriate for me to watch, the red mark, the dot, should be placed in order for the children not to be watched. In fact, before 1980 -- which is still the law -- the group meetings are closed; it's open only to lawmakers, if it's a ruling party, to government and party executives, and it's kind of a place where the party and these three organizations are mutually owned. Otherwise, we'll have to listen to the members of the group speak for minutes to explain why they're being insulted, they're being insulted, they're being spoken to, and then they'll be here -- just like they were -- they'll be attacking each other -- and then we'll have to listen to the members of the group speak for minutes, because that respect has not been shown to each other, unfortunately. In fact, it's become that way, which is for opposition parties, which is for ruling parties. In fact, this side belonged to the Republic Senate, and this side belonged to the House, and no matter what party they were from, they were always together, brotherly, respectful of each other. But sadly, I have to say something. We really had to disrupt society's DNA. I mean, can you imagine, some statistics actually show the state of society. In 2008, 17 million cans of antidepressants were used, but in 2011, this reached 41 million. How is our citizen... so we've created such a society in a short time. I'm afraid we've destroyed our love and respect for each other in the name of politics. In the old days, when you looked at the professional part of lawmakers' albums, you'd see lawyers, you'd see engineers, you'd see economists. Now there's another group: the strong ones, the defenders. This, I don't know, doesn't suit the Parliament, doesn't suit any of us. If we show a lack of love and respect for each other, we're the role models of society, I think we're responsible for society's madness. In this Parliament, the Justice Party -- I don't remember the issue -- fell out of power at a time when it was in power, when its own party rejected the budget by lawmakers, and the late Demirel always said that the decline of the Justice Party began on that day in Parliament. Again, I remember -- my age wasn't much -- but the late Menderes -- it was probably 1958 -- at the group meeting, especially when the government members didn't take their calls or show them the proper respect for them, the Council of Ministers put them to a vote of confidence, dropped one by one, and the second minister came to the second minister, dropped it; and the third came to the third, and dropped it. Then the late Menderes took the stand and said: "I understand you, and I apologize to you on behalf of my ministers. If you want, you have so much power that you can even bring the caliphate. The answer to the question is, do you bring in the famous case in Yassida? In fact, it shows the value that the deceased had given to the MPs at the meeting that day. We're the ones who are going to get that value, we're the MPs. Yes, it's true, after September 12th, especially with changes in the Political Party Act and election laws, I'm afraid the legislature has become a sort of appointee. A pre-election isn't nearly done. In each election, managers gather at the party headquarters and make parliamentary lists. Some of the MPs at the time -- on average 60 per cent, 70 per cent of this -- are not re-elected, others are chosen, or replaced, so that a Parliament can't actually express its customs and customs. So we're constantly referring to the House Council, or we're trying to get somewhere by changing it. In fact, the House must be ruled by its customs and customs. Of course, every Assembly has a code of conduct, but in every matter it is not possible to apply to the Civil Code or to look for answers there, nor can you find them. Because every day there will be new events, new problems. E, this Parliament, unfortunately, hasn't had these patterns and customs until today, because, as I said, if we accept a period as an average of four years every four years, almost 60 per cent of this Assembly is changing, 70 per cent of its new friends are coming. Of course, we have to respect each person's right to choose and choose, but it's also hard to see a change in that reputation in other democratic countries. Dear friends, after we've made the House a little bit critical in this way, when we look at the reflections of it in society, we see that society is also in great distress. So the number of antidepressants that I've just given you, and the fact that one of every five marriages ends up in divorce means that there are certain problems in this community. Besides, the crime rate is really increasing. In 2002, the number of prisoners and prisoners of 60 thousand found 180,000 in 2015 -- before July 15th -- and one of the things you are most proud of today is the promise that 45 new prisons will be in service next year. Attacks against women have increased by almost 1,400 percent. Meanwhile, there has been a nearly 140 per cent increase, especially in column articles involving hate crimes. We're dealing with such a society. To me, we're still responsible for this community. Somewhere, our executives seem to be mocking the human mind, the human intelligence. Mr. President went to Greece, specifically saying that the establishment agreement of the Republic of Turkey must be renewed. I know Mr. President Lausanne knows that the Treaty of Lausanne was not only between Turkey and Greece; it was the winners of World War I and Turkey on the other hand. So he knows that this agreement will not change only if Greece or Turkey says yes. He said the same thing, especially in West Thrace, that the muft should have come by choice according to the Lausanne Agreement. He was right because the Lausanne Accord had such a judgment. But, well, if the Greek President had stood up there and asked, Mr. President, Mr. Friend, you would really want the Mufti to come to West Thrace with an election. Well, you can dismiss hundreds of mayors in your country against the law, against the law. You want the mufti to come with the election, but what would you say about this illegal thing in your own country? What would you say? [[Applause from HDP rows]] On the other hand, we're able to master what we can afford. Jerusalem being the capital of Israel is not a new problem, but a decision taken by Israel thirty years ago. The new incident is that the United States of America is moving its own embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. So, how do we react? It was not Israel who would be cut off from diplomatic relations with Israel, but it was thirty years ago. Today's event is with the United States of America. If we really need to cut diplomatic ties with one another, it's the United States of America, but for some reason we probably can't afford it, so we go back to the other. These are things that society can't accept. Of course, Mr. Prime Minister was rightfully speaking about the bridges, roads, airports here yesterday. True, there have indeed been many major bridges worldwide, and there are third airports being built. But what's not to be forgotten, what's not to be overlooked, our future, our children's future, is being mortgaged, along with these city hospitals. Yes, the Ottoman Empire was facing capitalism. When the state of the Republic of Turkey was established, we got rid of the capitalizations. These capitalizations were illegitimate, but we have to consider that we're going back into a period of capitalization in Turkey, but that's the difference: national capitalization because our hospitals are made by Turkish contractors, but the institutions they're getting loans from are outside countries, of course. So we're dealing with a national plus unofficial capitalization, so we should take that into account. While I once again wish the law to be a blessing and auspicious, I salute you all in the hope that the very precious members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will live through a period of resurrection, like the times I gave them in the past.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0305par0454	Thank you. The second statement on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group belongs to Ankara MP Sırrıyya Önder. Here you are, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0306par0458	Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to begin by thanking Mr. Dengir for his wise speech that has been passed down from this experience. I'd like to answer with a statement from Ziya Pasha. In the dawn of a night like this, he says, Ziya Pasha. Yes, his wish is good, an optimistic look, but what awaits us in the dawn of a night like this, and on such a night as this -- let me fix it -- is it possible to get to the dawn? I'm not talking about the book, the dawn, the day. Now, no doubt this isn't about the quality of lawmakers, it's about the work Dengir brother is talking about, it's about the system. It's why this whole matter is here, hidden in a determination the Prime Minister made yesterday. Many signs have appeared, and we can walk from any of them. He said to the HDP municipalities: "Their situation is special. I want to address them with the voice of the leader of the century: what is private, general, general. What special? (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Specially Ataşehir Municipality, one of them. You're going to gas up 94 municipalities in this country, you're going to call it special, and then you're going to expect a nation of harmony, brotherhood, bonding. That's where he lies, in the middle of the night, if it's any good. Masters, you have counted the election results of this country's geographically one-third, you have cancelled the election results of one-third -- let's forget the modesty and call it by its name. And how did you do it? Bag number 411 by law. On August 19th, our coven discussed it; the end was slightly different, towards the end of August. That's when you invented this Kayium, the invention of the century -- the AK PARTY -- they say we'll do whatever it takes. These days, CHP and Kemalism have entered the race. We say, "May the best man win." We're not in this race. Now, with the effective opposition of the HDP, this trustee issue was removed from this bag, but the removal of these MPs also led to an interior minister. The trustee was pushed out of the system immediately, thinking it wasn't moral. If it's in the democracy jar that you can't pass a law that you're asking for, that you've passed with a decree of law, that you've made it a state of fact, then you tell us in return, and we'll be relieved. Now, so, in one third of a country -- geographically -- three cities, 10 provinces, 72 counties, 12 cities -- you people here can rule me in the locals, govern me, and rule this. You're going to tear up the will he calls it in a month, and then you're going to call it special. Either we don't know the definition of private or general, or the Prime Minister doesn't know it. The heart of the story beats here. If you say, let's not be polarized, let's be proud, let's be troubled. What body do you want him to laugh at? Take your pick, take your pick. You're ignoring my will, you're gassing my will, and then you're turning to me, and you're saying, "Let's be one in sword and sorrow." We're a nonprivileged, classless, fused crowd. Memorize these, and you'll always need them in the coven of Kemalism. That's what you expect after that. Maybe if the sun rises from the west. Now, this country has a alignment tool. When you say Kurdt, you say different beliefs, there are few people in this country who won't fall in line, who won't run into the system. This memorization works every time, and it's so bad that it worked when the immunity of the law was lifted. The main opposition party did not know that this would happen to them in chains, possibly the next day, and it experienced painfully. They called the municipalities "terrorism," all these municipalities. Do you know that many of these 94 municipalities, including 27 female mayors, have not even been prosecuted? He hasn't been prosecuted, doesn't know what he's being charged with. There's only one case, one charge -- even if it's a lie -- of terrorism, violence, or recent spreads of money, money, money, money, money, money -- that's not found. I'd like to greet Mr. Gültan Kışanak, an honorable, beautiful person, our companion, our companion, our companion and companion. They waited for him to testify to the Parliamentary Strike Commission for his arrest, and when he arrived as a person who had been referred to the information of the Parliament's coup commission, and as a veteran deputy of this Parliament, he said to him that the coup commission had visited you and had given you a list of agents inside the HDP (HDP) or inside the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). My dear brother, if they did, they gave it to those who held hands. When they were told, he opened his mouth and said nothing. He left here, his plane landed in Diyarbakır, and Gültan Kışanak was taken into custody. It's our honor, like all our co-chairs, I salute them from here. In the history of this country's democratic transformation, you're paying as severe convictions and life safety and humiliation that means that in the history of this democratic transformation, what's called "democracy" is that locality, local governance, participation in decision-making processes. It's one of the most valuable costs ever paid in the world, just like our first co-chairs and deputies. I wanted to talk to you about the negotiating process in the budget of the National Ministry of Defense, the paradigm of war or peace? What does he bring us, and what does the other one take from us? But I've got to get it by force. Istanbul 26. I have to be in court that day. Why? If that's not a deterrent of law enforcement, then what is it? Fortunately, we have many comrades, each of whom is competent, and a friend of ours will take over. There's no way to fight a war. You can align with war. You will no longer be able to align the CHP. Why? He paid a price and realized that these things, not so much as they say, have changed their problems -- so-called terrors and so-called problems. They were enemies to us, to all who were opposing, rebellious, contrary, and opposed, who chose to stay out of the system a little bit. They experienced it, and learned it. The worst conflict is better than a one-day war, for centuries. You can't show a society that's damaged by talking, you can't show a people, but the social cost of war is obvious. There's a contradiction, that's what we burn and object to. You're the client, the whole country pays the bill, and maybe you pay the least. Now, I'm a member of the Presidential Court, and I have to say something about the Parliamentary budget. 336 pages, as you call it, a work report was printed. On the Presidential Court -- there's our dear Vice President, there's our Secretary General -- we're out of words. Guys, there's something called the Internet. Don't print the agenda on pages like this every time, e-mail it to us. In case you haven't noticed, it's not like giving awards to vacuum cleaners because it's the age of innovation, that's what innovation is, we're all Internet readers. It's a shame they cut down trees for them, and no one wants to open them up and wonder. I'm asking our 550 paralegals here: Can any of you take this home and put it in your library? You know, if I took it away so the door wouldn't hit you in the face, because it's like a rock 'cause I'd put it on the doorstep. Why? It has no formal value, no scientific value, no archive value. 336 pages, first-class bird dough, that kind of thing. So, what's in it? It's very important inside. It's got five chandeliers, five chandeliers, a Czechoslovakian chandelier. There are five places, but not one photograph of co-captains of this country's third largest party. There are five chandelier photos, not one. Not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not Bachelor's son: There's no Cami in him. Look what's going on, not just the mosque. There's a photo of the mufti of 81 provinces, and I swear to God, there's a photo of one of us, one of Idris Bauken, in prison. Why? This is the face of July 15th for the sake of water. There's a photo of the president of the religion, and Figen Yüksekdağ. These days, you're caught in the wind of anti-empericalism, there's a picture of Dunford, even the President of the United States General Staff, and we don't have a picture of our presidents. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) The more important one is the Court, and I apologize to all of you, and I hesitated to not tell you -- there are two photos of the abdesthane, and there are two more photos of the common presidents. They put up a photo of the abscess, photos of the leaders of these three parties, no leader of a party.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0307par0469	There's even an elevator.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0306par0470	And three elevators. Bless your father. There are three elevators; I count, I count more than one.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0308par0471	There's no photo of the contractor.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0306par0472	They're there, too. They pushed them in as if they were civil society. When did the contractor become a civil society? Everyone bears witness that a false statement has been made, that the Council has been accepted by the People's Council. This GYODER has been called; it is not. He made it look like an ad spot. He ran his own name.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0308par0474	It was the brothers of the men.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0306par0475	Open the records of the Presidential Court, contractors whose assets have been seized because of the...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0308par0476	His brothers...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0306par0477	...in this, in this GYODER, they exist, in its administration, in its execution. Now, no propaganda, no names. I said it on the Presidential Court, I put it on the record. People make the House of People? The nation makes the parliament of the nation. It means that it should be made out of the budget. If you say yes to a law on real estate investment partnership the day after tomorrow, don't we all go under the table? We did, on the farm. So, what's in it for you? Instead, may God give you a long life and a healthy life, every page has the smile of our Speaker. Don't you know anything about it, brother? You would have sent this to all the MPs' e-mails. It's a small example, but it's a big example. It's a crystallized version of this whole sense of waste, all this vagaries, inheritance, looseness.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0309par0480	Talan...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0306par0481	Don't do that. If I've never said it in the Presidential Court, I've said it three or five times. They sent an e-mail once, like a joke to an old prime minister. The archives of this Prime Minister's office are too full. Send them to the SECA. They'll be dough. Then they'll stop, the state mind or the state mind, and they'll take copies of each of them anyway. There's no difference between that mind and that mind. Is there, Mr. Secretary? Isn't it a shame, isn't it a sin, isn't it? There'll be five chandeliers? There's more chandeliers than the leader of the century, and he's in four places. What's this Czechoslovakian chandelier, brother? What's the Abdestiny doing in the House... you're talking about the peace, you're talking about the moon. Dear friends, what did we say about the Action Report? July 15th holds an important place, and it should. I reminisce with great respect, mercy, of all our citizens who have lost their lives. I say to all the people who have been injured, who have lost their health for that purpose, that they should look at the registration fairly, equal to all the resources of this state, and that we support sensitivity in this regard. But have mercy! They're the victims of the coup, you're not the victims of the coup. You'd be embarrassed if you had this blow and you knew who you were. Where would you be? We've been listening here since this morning, in the Treasury, in the National Education, in Diyanette, in the National Education, in Diyanette -- why she's gone, how she's gone, how she's never been talked about -- all of the important things that she's done in the army -- and all the arrangements that she's made here -- at least in the last three years, if you've defended her by heart, by great faith, you can't be the victim of this coup, you can't be embarrassed. At least stand with this embarrassment, and people will say: "Yeah, well, at least they've understood something that happened." The victim of this blow, those who lost their health at first, those who lost their health, and then the thousands of victims of the KHK that you purposely took advantage of the opportunity from your job, from your wife; they are the victims of this coup. What happened to you? Did your nail touch the stone? No. It's not worth it, but don't get up and start acting like you're the victim of this coup, and don't always get up and wave it at the opposition like it's a stick. If this House deserves this budget... every penny of it is forbidden to us if you don't take an initiative to participate in the law enforcement activities... for those of you who are in prison and at the gates of the court... who are only at the stand... who have repeated his speech on the stand... and who have not moved your hair. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I, for one, deny it. I salute you all with respect and love. Let these MPs have the value of an abdestiny. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0310par0489	Thank you, Mr. Commander. That's a little harsh, though, your statements, but...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0306par0491	It's not a lie. It can be heavy, shame on those who cause it. If it's a lie, I'm sorry right now.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0310par0492	The logic of this is that the 26th Legislation Period, the first-inning work, is to be filed into a report, a report of activity. It could be more or less in any institution. It may be incomplete, there may be issues we disagree with, but other than that, let's consider the other administrative activities of the Assembly with it as a report covering the work he's been doing over the past two years. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0311par0494	Mr. President, I'd like a quick word.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0310par0495	Here, I'll give it to you according to 60, Mr. Yıldırım.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0311par0498	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, you make it sound like you're taking a beating and answering...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0310par0500	No, no, no, it's not like that.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0311par0501	You're creating a perception that our orator is against the publication of an operational report. Let it be published. He said that in the 21st century, in the digital age, there was an industrial way. Second thing: At least in respect of ecology, the environment, the green, at least the forest face, for the sake of water, don't be partners in this waste of the Court. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0312par0505	Well, thank you. I'm running this place now, Mr. Yıldırım, representing the presidency, as it was said for the presidency.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0313par0507	You represent everything, Mr. President! 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2018 2) The President's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Court's Central Management Final Account for 2016 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Constitutional Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2016 1) Supreme Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Prime Ministership 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2018 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2016 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The National Management Budget of 2018 2) The Editor-in-Chief for Religious Affairs 2016 Central Management Final Account E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Final Account for 2016
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0314par0554	Members of parliament, it is now the turn of Mardin MP Mithat Sancar. Here you go, Mr. Sancar. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0315par0558	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, when the budget bill is discussed, of course, investments and promises for next year are coming forward from the government wing. So what kind of important investments they're going to make and what they're doing during the previous budget period is the basis for their talks. The part I'm going to talk about is more about the higher judicial body. At that time, it also wonders what investments they're predicting and what investments they're going to brag about last year. What does this budget promise in the field of justice, in the field of justice and in the field of law? What is the government planning to do over this budget for next year? The first promise pen we come across is building new prisons, it seems. So far, it's not enough. It's a new plan. The construction of 23 new prisons for 2018 is at stake. The total number of prisons is 382, and according to reports we read that the government plans to build 228 more prisons and execution institutions for the next five years, and the capacity for them will be 138,000. So he's reckoning that the current prisoners and prisoners will be as many as 66 per cent more imprisoned and convicted. Now, can a government brag about that? Does the increasing number of prisons in one country indicate that crime has increased the rate of crime, or does it indicate that there is a great injustice, distortion, and crisis in governance? There is no doubt that no state that claims to be ruled with justice does not boast or boast about the number of prisons, the number of prisoners and prisoners. So, what's the status of international statistics in the field of law, what does Turkey look like? There have been several more talks about the World Justice Project, and they have an annual rule of law. Turkey was ranked the 99th place between 113 countries in 2016 -- Turkey, Guatemala, Myanmar. We are condemning Myanmar because of his unlawful conduct in Arakan. True, it is necessary to condemn them. It is absolutely necessary to oppose them, but it does not stand in a different place than Myanmar in the Supremeity of the Law. Can E brag about it? Is it possible that the government intends to brag about it? According to OECD data, the number of prisoners is ranked in the top three places in Turkey, the third. According to the population, the number of people in prisons is the United States during the 1st term of statistics in the countries with the highest number of countries, Israel during the 2nd term, Turkey during the 3rd term. Now, this country is in the same category as Israel, which is constantly given and challenged. Then when you condemn someone, you look at yourself, you fix yourself first. When you answer, you don't have the right to be angry, you shouldn't be angry. What you need to do is correct these statistics. Why are there so many prisoners and prisoners, why are prisons packed in Turkey, why are there so many prisons? July 15 coup attempt, we've always said here, we've always stressed, it's a treacherous attempt, it's inadmissible in any way. As July 15th, we also reminded of the responsibilities of this government or AKP's previous governments, and we also said that they should answer, not only to individuals, but also politically, but they don't agree. But at least at some point, we're repeating our insistence and demand here. Look, decisions made by judges and prosecutors who have been discharged, arrested, and arrested for belonging to what you call a terrorist organization should not be valid in their proceedings and trials. They illustrate the situation after Germany's merger. No, dear friends, the situation there was the opposite of here. The decisions made by the judges and prosecutors of the old system were invalid. Come on, let's work together on this. We're ready to do our part, and we're willing to make any contribution. Let's work together on a law, and we'll work together on how to correct the consequences of these trials, the consequences of those proceedings, according to justice. We'll believe that you really have a problem with these coupgers, you have a problem with the mind of the coup. Only then will we believe. I see nothing in the field of justice that this government, the government, can boast of. For example, basic principles of law, which have been valid for hundreds of years or even thousands of years, are being broken at once. The principle of face-to-face is not enforced in trials, the right to defend is denied, the request of our co-chairs to stand trial is denied for simple reasons, ridiculous reasons. While all basic judicial principles are being violated in this way, may this government boast that it will take over this legacy: We have gathered the mindset of special duty judicial bodies and judgments that began with the ruling courts in Turkey, and we are putting it into practice here today. Will they boast? Like the Supreme Court, for example. I know there's a lot of people in your line who've said a lot of things to the Supreme Court, who've made a lot of objections. I'm just going to give you a few examples of the sense of judgment there, of others. For example, the court's chief Ali Cetinkaya, who wanted to defend himself in front of the Supreme Courts, would not have the right to stand trial. For example, Mufit Bey of the court, we have a certain purpose, and we go above the law to get to him. Now it's no different. I know they're being judged on the flat; I know, again, more than these times, they're very critical of them. He has already violated the principle of illegal crime, no punishment, the principle of natural justice, which we know is clear, but there are other dire circumstances. For example, Salim Basol's response to Samet Aghaoğlu is well-known: "This is the power that put you in Yassiada. " Besides, there's no law against it. After that, shall we count the March 12th trials, September 12th, DGM, private courts? Now, under the name of the prison criminal court, do you intend to continue this special judicial process and mentality... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, will you let me finish?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0316par0569	I didn't give it to anyone, so please finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0317par0571	All that arguing for nothing.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0318par0572	No one's listening to you anyway.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0319par0573	Just give me a minute, and I'll finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0320par0574	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0319par0575	Thank you. I'll say a few words anyway. Interestingly, the Supreme Court had issued an arrest warrant for İsmet Pasha as well. So they were acting with such joy, an unpredictable appetite for power, an appetite for power, that the same thing comes out in another interesting example: a gentleman who dominates the administrative courts -- I can't remember his name now -- becomes a defendant in Yassiada 37 years later. Now, if we don't get justice right, there's no way we can get there if we're just trying to liquidate each other with the means of violence that we have, friends. Every ammunition runs out, every day runs out, the only ammunition that doesn't run out is justice, please remember that.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0321par0580	Thank you. It belongs to Izmir MP Müslüm Doğan. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0322par0584	Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party, the Democratic Party of Peoples about the budget of the Ministry of Religious Affairs in the central management budget. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, in the sense of human consciousness and life levels, no one's right to live is taken away. Because of gender, sexual orientation, identity, religion, and language, no one can be left out or crushed. It is also a human stance and necessity to fight to remove the pressures on all religious and cultural groups that are oppressed and excluded, such as Alevis, Christians, Assyrians, Süryans, Jews, and Ezidians. The removal of the mandatory religion course, the acceptance of the Alevi's demands of equal citizenship, the acceptance of the mosques as places of worship, the equal treatment of discriminated beliefs at the places of worship, and the resolving of all identity issues based on equal rights is now an inevitable task. The separation of religious and state affairs, the creation of opportunities for all identities who believe and don't believe in themselves to express themselves freely, equality and freedom will also lead to the process of democratisation of the comprehensive secular country. Dear lawmakers, this attitude also means a struggle to free the beliefs of Sunni Muslims from the state monopoly, to free them and to live their own beliefs as they please. Frankly, the idea of liberal secularism is a fundamental necessity. In fact, the freedom of faith and conscience of citizens who have different religions or have no religious beliefs must be granted constitutional security on the basis of equal citizenship. The right of each student to receive lessons and education by choosing according to his own beliefs must be legally guaranteed by the end of the mandatory practice of religion. Civil religion education must be completely free, and the current structure of the Ministry of Religious Affairs must be transformed into institutional status that will only co-ordinate. Today's need has shown that the state's withdrawal from the field of religion and faith is now a necessity for religious and religious affairs to be left to society, to the people of the faith. All obstacles to the freedom of organisation of the religious community must be removed, the basis for the conditions in which they can live their own beliefs as they please. The budget for the chairmanship of the Ministry of Religious Affairs has also grown to significant proportions each year, compared to the previous year. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you are now building the religious budget with the tax of our people from Alevi citizens and non-Muslim beliefs, which we cannot accept. This is not a true and moral situation. It's the same thing in the department's literature. If you look at the publications, the Muslim and non-Muslim words are used. In fact, it's an alternative understanding, which requires the institution to leave immediately. The Ministry of Religious Affairs has more budgets than the budgets of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, Economy, Development, Customs and Commerce, Urbanism, Foreign Affairs, Science, Industry and Technology, Energy and Development of the nine ministries, plus Foreign Affairs plus the Ministry of the European Union and plus the Ministry of Environment and Urbanisation. We're dealing with a very serious budget. The digital distribution of employees employed within the institution also causes the central budget to demonstrate the monotheistic religious understanding that AKP has imposed on society. The Ministry of Religious Affairs has a growing budget each year due to the employment of about 120,000 employees. In addition, 93.35 per cent of the budget has been replaced as personnel costs, social security costs, goods and service purchases, and the remaining transfers and capital costs. Dear lawmakers, you also know that the President of the Religious Affairs has again requested additional funding for this year. According to the 2016 final account, there are more than 89 million grants available for the year 2016 than for the Dianete budget. Again, the Ministry of Religious Affairs has requested additional $1.3 billion for 2017, and you have read it. Dear lawmakers, religious-state relations have been at the top of the most controversial, ruling events since the early days of history, creating major turmoil in communities. Throughout history, the greatest debate and disaster of religions have occurred when religion, the state and the status quo are under the command of the ruling forces. The known catastrophes of faith and political power also arise in the most accepted religions of the world of faith. Political powers from Judaism to Christianity and Islam have not backed down from a desire to build a structure that serves its own interests. Religion must be freed from the state's hands, primarily from political power; the President of Religious Affairs must be rethinked under many models, including the option for autonomous institutionalisation, and immediately reach a status quo, a status quo, which will not be affected by the policies of the rulings. The budget for the chairman of the Ministry of Religious Affairs is regularly raised each year, and those taxes collected from everyone are used only in accordance with the needs of one sect. We have a significant number of Alevi citizens living in this country, and they are obliged to contribute to the religious budget with their taxes. This is unacceptable, of course. But when it comes to Alevi rights, it is not considered that they are being respected in places of worship or that they do not want to take mandatory religious lessons. No gains gained by international law are met in the state of the Republic of Turkey, and the ECHR decisions are ignored. Honorable lawmakers have taken on the form of a structure that controls state and religion where religious affairs should be separated in our country. In fact, we're dealing with a religious oligarchy institution, a constitutional institution, but we're dealing with an institution like this. It is no longer possible for this institution to remain in its originality, to maintain and maintain the moral virtue of faith, which has lost its neutrality, which has entered into the order of a political adult. The Ministry of Religious Affairs, especially in social events involving the community, should have made a statement and taken a stand on the position of the authorities, while in time it was necessary to take action. I'd like to continue with an example, dear lawmakers. The decision made by the president of the United States on Jerusalem was strongly criticised by the faith institutions in the United States, but in our country, is the Ministry of Religious Affairs able to take a stand on this? Have you ever heard of an explanation? In particular, has the Ministry of Religious Affairs had a reaction, an explanation, especially for the destruction and orientation of the Alevis, against home markings and so on? This is a provocation, don't come to this provocation. In peace, believe in each other, and respect each other. Have you heard the explanation, friends? It is also a sign of the state of this institution, especially when diabetes remains silent to post-mortem practices. As you know, with death, the sentence is over no matter what. After a man's death, it's a matter of conscience, especially for those who remain behind, that he should have a burial and a gravestone worthy of his human honor, and then the fulfillment of religious needs. It's more of a moral issue, actually, but we've clearly seen a distinct distinction being made in this particular regard since last year. There's nothing acceptable about people's funerals being exposed in the streets, and there's nothing acceptable about funerals. The institution's attitude on this issue is unacceptable. According to Article 10 of the Constitution, religion is equal to the law, regardless of race, and no one can be granted privileges. State bodies act according to the principle of equality in all their transactions, but when we look at the President of Religious Affairs, unfortunately, it's an undisputed fact that it serves a single people, a single faith, and even a single sect. Dear lawmakers, when we look at it, it's the opposite of the Ottoman era. These institutions were the institutions that were usually organized and organized within the relationship of foundations, and the position of sheikhism actually maintained these services. Each religious community had organized these religious organizations within its own communities, and the Armenian Patriarchy, for example, was able to organize 2,500 churches in this sense, to raise religious people, to transfer resources within the foundations, and to do so. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I've actually prepared a long speech, but I'd like to talk to you about something important. In fact, in particular, the conversion of the President of Religious Affairs to a co-ordinating institution, especially during his visit to Western Thrace, during his visit to Bulgaria, he said: "Get the Courts by choice." I propose today, as well as our party recommends. I think the muftu should be chosen by the public. The mosques should be autonomised, mosques should form their own budgets, and such a budget should not be earmarked. We have to protect the rights of all workers working for the Ministry of Religious Affairs here, but as a Flame, as a citizen of Alevi, as a citizen of this country, I don't allow my taxes to be in this institution, my friends. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0323par0602	Thank you. Diyarbakır MP Nimethullah Erdoğmiş is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Erdoğ. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0324par0607	Mr. President, dear friends, I wish you all a good evening. He wishes our budget to be a blessing, and I pay my respects from here to here, from the very precious Religion. Dear friends, I'm here to share with you a few words about human heritage, common values. As you know, there is a legacy that we believe in as a spiritual heritage, which is based on revelation, which is constantly passed on to mankind through the prophets, that cannot be worn out, worn out, and never, ever neglected. We call it the religious heritage, the spiritual heritage. For example, when you look at the period of Jesus Christ, a 30 - year - old prophet, a 30 - year - old prophet, had 30 months of prophecy, and he led this kind of service to mankind until the end of time by handing it over to his disciples. Later, our Lord Muhammad (SAV) handed over this human heritage to his friends and followers. Notice, when we look at the history of Islam, it's not unfair to say that even though the people are the greatest shareholder of this heritage, they've been betrayed in history. Thus, the passage of historical heritage from time to time, unregistered, has opened the door to religious scandals. Although we later described it as "ulema" -- although we did not make any distinction between the major sciences and other sciences -- we were familiar with the succession as heirs of this legacy, and we described it in this way -- unfortunately, the ulema damaged it. Our country, its education, has damaged this heritage in general. But have there not been well - meaning efforts, efforts, struggles, and those who have fulfilled their debt to this heritage? Of course it happened, there's elan, and it's going to happen tomorrow, but most importantly, the danger of this legacy being removed from the restoration reality, from the truth has been constantly covered. In the character of this legacy, in the nature of this legacy, the essence of this legacy is indispensable. By religious terminology, I mean, if we use the concepts of religion itself, Islam, it is the indispensable condition of this legacy. And so, because there was no such thing as this threat, the matter of religion, the matter of religion, the matter of religion, the matter of religion, the matter of my teachers -- and I'm telling you, my teachers -- has become the subject of a number of conquests that will make us ridiculous from time to time. Look, my dear brothers, the Holy Prophet, the Prophet (SAV) has a call in the first paragraph of Veda Hutbesi, calling for people, and this is the call for all mankind to be dealt with by the companions of our Peygaber, who are there. Only about that paragraph, I propose to this House on behalf of my party right now: here you are, implement that paragraph. We are open and open to any suggestions you may make on this matter. What's that paragraph? In summation, he's making an analogy, Prophet. He describes the Hajj days and the Hajj months and the holy places there as holy places, and he says: "Just as these are holy days, as this month is a holy month, so as Mecca is now a holy city, your lives, your blood, are holy, and your blood are preserved from all kinds of rape." We're fighting terrorism. You say, and you bring it back, and you crown it with the state's support. Justice is what the government stands for. If we want the state to stay, if we want the state to be permanent, if we want the state to be permanent, the first is to accept social justice as a moral to the state itself and so... At the mention of a friend of ours from CHP Ali, Kerremallahu Vecheh. If there was a religion of the state, it would be justice. We need to accept the truth today. A moment ago, Mr. Secretary, my friend Müslüm Bey told me about the funerals. What about my dear friends, my fellow teachers, now, no burial rights, no funeral rights, no death rights? So people can't get rid of us after they die? We can't do burials, parents can't bury their children. We're going to have the president of the Ministry of Religious Affairs come out and give him a negative opinion. I'm not overstepping my bounds here in order to give you a positive opinion. Go out, say: "Yes, that's the way we have to do it. So why don't you go out and take on the moral responsibility of the abyss, the danger that this country is being dragged into, the danger that is being dragged deep inside, instead of being the subject of a bunch of, you know, empty, empty, or something else? Why don't you go out and say, "We will bind this country with spiritual bonds, and we will keep this country's communities together."
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0325par0612	We say it all the time.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0324par0613	We need it, society needs it. Governments somehow know how to keep themselves together, but society goes, society falls apart. See, the dissolutions now are no longer emotional dissolutions, as if there are so many dissolutions that the next generations will not be able to grant us mercy. I hope we didn't spoil any of our friends and any of the parties when I spoke out of my heart with these feelings and thoughts. Good luck with the budget, good luck with the budget. Instead of a war budget, I say peace budget, peace, peace be our goal, and we become peace travellers. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0326par0618	Thank you. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the final speaker is Adana MP Meral Danış Beştaş. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0327par0622	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the budget of Human Rights and Equality. Yeah, you didn't hear wrong, the Human Rights and Equality Foundation, we're talking about two facts that are not in Turkey. I'm sure the Human Rights and Equality Foundation didn't know about the overwhelming majority of citizens of Turkey. Today, I want to greet our people and say that there is such an institution in Turkey. Turkey has Human Rights and Equality Association. I was very surprised that I knew too, but what this institution did, what it did, what it drank, what human rights violations it tried to prevent, is there really any right left in Turkey, is there any equality left? Yes, two things that are not in Turkey: human rights and equality. I'm sure a lot of you and a lot of your fellow lawmakers were founded on this, and what they did, maybe they knew, and I don't mean to be disrespectful, and I don't want to oversell it, but Amnesty doesn't know. Amnesty International said there was torture in custody following the July 15 coup attempt and the Human Rights Institution of Turkey was removed internationally. There are no institutions to study this. "The Amnesty International," he said. The Justice Department immediately issued a denial and said: "No, you're wrong, there's a Human Rights and Equality Foundation in Turkey." There, then, Turkey heard a little bit. Now, whether it's operational or not, it's been discussed a lot. Of course, he's not active. His short name is TIKEK. So, what was it before? There was the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey, which was an unread institution, just like this one. But that's because a more egalitarian version was created. Of course, the sign office, it's just a sign. He's got a share in the budget, and he's got nothing to do with it. Where's this budget going, and we need to discuss it. Now, in this budget, there's a budget separation, and there's a mystery to what this institution does with its private budget. In 2012, you know, Turkey's Human Rights Foundation was established, and Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Foundation was established on April 20, 2016. So, who are the members of this organization? Of course, they're direct members of the administration. What is it, the Council of Ministers is throwing out eight members of the institution, and the President is choosing all 3 of them. There are already 11 members of this institution, and 11 of them are elected executives. And this institution, when we look at it, it's not equal in itself, it's one female member. It's another one of those institutions where there's no women's will, like everywhere else. So, does the government have any choice but to sign the actions of the administration? Of course, no, no. The Human Rights and Equality Institution tasked with signing the execution of the government, which is directly dependent on the implementation of the entity, taking the reason for the existence, without any external control, from civil society, independent institutions, from the academic world, from the lawyers, from the bar. Of course, the government kills two birds with one stone, legitimizing their own actions; I'm sure they're bragging internationally, since there's an institution on paper. And I want to tell you something about the budget, what's the budget? Let's just make sure, what's this budget made of? The Court has identified the budget. The institution's budget for 2016 was 5 million, 957, and its income and funding were envisioned. Over the year, 6 million 467,000 grants were received, 4 million,116,845 TL were considered because it didn't work, it didn't do anything. You know, there are no rights violations in Turkey, everything's a rose, and in a country like this, the budget -- God exists, let's not eat their rights -- they have a share of it, but they still have an expense, $2,350,154. Where did you spend this budget?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0328par0633	The staff costs...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0327par0634	What good is this institution when citizens can't use their rights to show off when they're being tortured, when they're being tortured, when they can't bury their bodies, when they're freezing in the freezer, when citizens can't use their rights, when they're being appointed trustees to DBP's municipalities, when there's no rights? We'd like to ask that out loud from here. Now, it's certainly an institution under the government's control here. And hang on, he won't accept an application. There's the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey, but you can't apply. The Justice Department, who has responded to the Amnesty's statement on this matter, will hopefully explain what this institution eats, what it drinks, what it does for a living, and we'll find out soon enough. Now, there's the State of Emergency Commission on this, you know, and he still hasn't made a statement, and we can actually compare that to that. So the agency you're looking for is currently unavailable. You know, we're on the phone and the number you're calling is not available right now. There's an institution far away, whether we see it or not, it's an institution of Turkey, but it's of no use, of course. Now, Turkey's most burning problems are, of course, the issue of equality in the context of the Kurdish issue, the issue of equal and free citizenship. However, here, or one, government officials against our statements are equal and free citizens of this country. Don't be fooled by this. They are not equal and free citizens, we still live in a time when thousands of people are imprisoned in prison, because they are not educated in their native language, still unable to express their thoughts, cultures, identities, and only because they are Kurds. Torture, despite all our claims, is said to be nothing, but it continues systematically and at the speed of torture. After the July 15 coup attempt, all rights and freedoms were suspended in the country, and as a result of this suspension, we are in such a state that, according to the data of the TİHV Documentation Center, the law enforcement force is 36 people without a trial. 36 people died. 23 people were killed, including six children, as a result of the impact of armored vehicles belonging to security forces. According to official Justice Department data, 66 prisoners committed suicide and 40 prisoners committed suicide after the July 15 coup attempt. We don't know if these are suicides, but that number certainly doesn't reflect the truth, we know that. In Adana, Mehmet Kil committed suicide in Furmens Prison. It is said that he has committed suicide. Our research is still ongoing, and we do not believe that he committed suicide. And these deaths, there are a lot of numbers, work health, job safety, exports, the painting reflects the most severe period in history, but what do the citizens who are watching us right now say, what do the public say? It is not a budget that the public demands, but a war budget, which meets the demands of the people. While we demand peace budgets, demand equality and freedom, while the government is expressing our views on war, in and out of war, the flag and the bar on anti-rights and freedoms are getting higher and higher. Yeah, it's a real shame. It's a shame for citizens, it's a shame for such hard work, in an environment where such poor people are struggling with hunger, that an institution called the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey gets a share of the budget, in a word, it's a sin. People are struggling with hunger, and it's unfortunate to talk about it in a country where human rights are not recognised, rights are not secure, no one feels free and secure, and this painting really tells a lot. I could have brought hundreds of pictures, thousands of them, Mother Taybet, and Uður Kaymaz, and many other children, but I didn't find them right. We live in a country where the human rights monument is under arrest. There's no explanation for this picture. (Public applause) He's really under arrest right now. I don't know how much the word will do in a place where the human rights monument is under arrest, and we thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit04spe0329par0643	Thank you. This concludes the speech on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0329par0001	I now open the Fifth Session of Turkey's 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue our talks with 2018 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2016 Central Management Charter. The commission and the government are in place. Now it's time for the individuals. The statement, in favour of the individuals, belongs to Isaac Gazel, MP of Kütahya. Mr. Gazel, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0330par0009	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Before I begin, I strongly condemn the decision that the United States of America made regarding Jerusalem. This decision is a decision that provokes peace in the region. Because since the end of Ottoman government's sovereignty in the region, those who had a say in the region have set foot in disregard of the past, violating the dynamics of the region. The mechanics of peace can't be solved in the region until Ibrahim Halalullah (Abraham) understands why it was written by Sultan Suleiman of the Law on the gate of Jaffa, which is at the most important point of Jerusalem. Jerusalem is ours, it belongs to all of us, Jerusalem belongs to all of humanity. Dear lawmakers, the budget of 2018, when we hold first round talks, is the 16th budget by the EC PARTY governments since 2002. Our budget for 2018 is a budget that supports growth, employment, investment, and prior fiscal discipline, based on human-focused, prosperity and peace of mind, taking into account the future of Turkey. Our country has achieved huge gains in the past 15 years, thanks to the climate of trust and stability provided by EC PARTI authorities in Turkey, financial discipline and rational economy. Now, our country has come up with a new system that will make this climate of trust and stability permanent, to eliminate bad and pessimistic scenarios. Despite all negative propaganda, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has adopted the most radical constitutional amendment in the history of the republic. In 2018 and in the following years, Turkey will continue to develop in safety with stability. The presidential government system will be a change in Turkey's stable growth. Dear MPs, democracy and the rule of law are also the guarantee of development, peace and prosperity. In the period of the EC PARTY governments, reformal steps have been taken to resolve the problems of the justice system. The principles of independence of the judiciary and the neutrality of the judiciary have been moved to our Constitution. Our judicial system has quickly recovered from the attempted treasonous coup attempt on July 15th. In 15 years, 232 palaces of justice have been opened, and our number of judges and prosecutors has risen to 16,000. After July 15th, 108 new courts were set up. Thank you all for contributing to justice. Highly valued lawmakers, in accordance with the mission that history has imposed on us, we have become the conscience of mankind in the face of events that have taken place in the region. Our country, hosting the most refugees in the world, offered a new life to 3 million refugees, Syrian refugees, in the AFAD co-ordination. Our Ministry of Religious Affairs has made a major breakthrough in its efforts to target all parts of society from seven to 70 abroad, both domestically and abroad. Our Ministry of Religious Affairs, in particular, signed major and comprehensive works before July 15th and after July 15th, trying to isolate the religious and religious understanding of the people's religious actions by bringing them to all parts of the community. Given the damage done to our religion as well as the damage done to the state, what an important role our Ministry of Religious Affairs played in fighting it, which has come out quite clearly. WHEN the EC PARTI came to power, 86 per cent of tax revenues went towards interest spending, the rate was reduced to 10.9 per cent. The rate of interest costs has declined from 14.4 per cent to 1.9 per cent. Our country's resources and resources have been transferred to projects, not interest. The AK PARTY government considers itself a servant of the nation. Our understanding of politics is based on human service. During the EC PARTY, poverty and income inequality were reduced, and our country rose to higher levels on every platform. With the financial resources we created, we did not have our officers, our minimum wagers, our disabled citizens, our elderly, our workers, our tradesmen, and our farmers crushed in the face of inflation. On this occasion, I wish our 2018 budget to be good for our country, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0331par0019	Thank you, Mr. Gazel. It's up to the government to decide. The first word on behalf of the government belongs to Mr. Recep Akdağ. Here you are, Mr. Akdağ. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The government has been speaking for 80 minutes. I'll give you 40 minutes of that time.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0332par0025	Dear President, I have taken a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on the Central Management Budget Law bill of 2018 and the Central Management Act of 2016. I wish the bill to be a blessing, and I salute you all. Dear members of our Veteran Assembly, I will begin my talk with the subject of disaster and emergency management, which I am responsible for in the name of the Prime Minister. When we look at the policies of natural disasters in our country, we see that the first steps were taken after the 1939 earthquake, when Law number 7269 was made in 1959. The Law on Human Rights is an important document that we have today in terms of legal basis. Legal regulations on disasters continue in 1988. Unfortunately, the 1999 earthquakes have shown us that our preparations for the disaster were not enough. We all know that in the days of Izmit and Düzce earthquakes, the country has suffered a great deal of suffering and social trauma. Of course, there are many reasons, but one of the main reasons is that it's a bureaucratic turmoil in disaster management. From the day we arrived in power, we completely changed Turkey's disaster, emergency strategy and eliminated multi-headness. In 2009, we convened under a roof the Office of Civil Defence, the General Manager of Disaster Affairs, and the Office of the Prime Ministerate of Turkey's Emergency Management and established the Prime Ministerate's Office of Disaster and Emergency Management, creating a new vision. Together with this, we first prepared Turkey's Disaster Response Plan to resolve the confusion over how to intervene in the disasters in Turkey. In this way, we have devised plans to intervene at the national level, especially in the wake of a disaster, and in 81 cities, we have prepared plans for disaster intervention. Dear lawmakers, of course, since I've been a Ministry of Health for a long time in the past, I've been in almost all of these disasters, and I've observed that our teams under the AFAD and under the Health Department have grown and have increased their ability to intervene. In particular -- I'll be in touch soon -- and during the Van earthquake, I personally witnessed that this service was performed quite perfectly because I was the first Minister to arrive at the earthquake site in the second hour after the earthquake. We're doing a new study on Turkey's Disaster Management Strategy Document and Action Plan. We'll be implementing this strategy plan to put together all plans for the disaster under its roof by 2018, during the next budget period. We are also working on Turkey's Disaster Risk Reduction Plan under this document. Because when we look at disasters, we need to talk about three periods of risk reduction, preparation, intervention and healing. We also find it very important that this Turkish Disaster Risk Reduction Plan be completed immediately and implemented by the AFAD co-ordination in 2018. Because over the years, this is the most important development in disaster management in the world, reducing risk and somehow being more prepared. The TARAP is a plan we're currently planning with the joint participation of all sectors, confederates. Thus, we will strengthen pre - disaster preparation and damage reduction efforts, reducing the need for post - disaster activities and the resources that are separated. Precious friends, one of the important things in this sense is the awareness of our citizens, the readiness of each member and family to prepare for disaster. For this, we have trained nine million citizens, adults, young people, children, starting the AFAD-ready Turkey Consciousness and Education Project. We're going to continue to develop these awareness studies in a more comprehensive and result-oriented way, and we care very much about that. So we intend to reduce the risk with the TARAP, while also making sure that our citizens are more prepared for disaster. Turkey, as we all know, is a country on an earthquake belt. Instead of asking, "When is the earthquake going to happen? " The depression could happen at any moment, and how ready are we? We think that understanding should settle into the minds. By the way, we prepared the National Earthquake Strategy and Action Plan for the earthquake in 2012 for work to be done by 2023. Now, we're reviewing this strategy and action plan. In this framework earlier, the Law on the Transformation of Areas Under Disasters has been passed, as you all know, the Law on Disaster Insurance has entered into effect. Now, with the new work we've done, we're going to speed up our efforts to prepare for the earthquake by putting indicators on all institutions. On the other hand, we've updated the previously launched map of Turkey's earthquake danger. That was really excellent work. We'll be introducing this to our public and to you as well as our scientists soon as possible. With this map, we are renovating Turkey's building earthquake regulations. In the next month, we will be presenting these two important documents to the public. In the last two months, we've signed protocols with our associates to make our work faster and more active. With regard to disaster housing and improvements from the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, we have made protocols that include cooperation in the areas of rescue and search between AFAD and AKUT. Turkey has over 2,000 AFAD employees, rescue troops, around 20,000 firefighters.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0333par0036	How many districts does the director run, Mr. Secretary? There's a lot of power of attorney.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0332par0037	Dear lawmakers, we think there is a great need for volunteers, well-trained, somehow certified. We're going to study these in the coming months, and we're going to quickly increase the number of volunteers because in the earthquake -- as you all know -- the first hours are very important. As much as we can get back-up from the surrounding provinces, even if we can get help, what's important is the first few hours of intervention. It is impossible to employ too many people in the position of government officials or workers. Of course, we're going to increase the number of personnel in our search and rescue units, but more importantly, we're planning a large army of volunteers to prepare for disaster. Before the earthquake closes its head, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to give you an example of where the conditions for intervention came from during and before our government. While search and rescue activities were launched four and a half hours after the earthquake in the 1999 Marmara earthquake, teams were in the field within the first 30 minutes of the 2011 Van earthquake, as well as the IMKE teams of our Ministry of Health, as well as the AFAD.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0334par0039	How many provinces have been affected, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0332par0040	I was at the scene of the crime -- as I said -- in the middle of two hours. On behalf of these teams, it is with great pride that we have friends, brothers and sisters, who know their business well, who work with a professional but also amateur spirit. We've had such incidents that we've had the IMKE guys who say, "I won't leave my post when a relative of Van's earthquake, and a close relative of the first degree, is in the rubble." This country really owes these heroes a lot. Not only have they been successful in interfering with the disasters in Turkey, but also in interfering with the disasters abroad. During the earthquake, 48 tents and containers gave shelter to 200,000 people in the city. After the earthquake, more than 25,000 homes were soon built, with almost a record, with more than $5 billion spent in total, and life returned to normal. Dear lawmakers have been told why our budget has increased to over 3 billion, while the initial funding for the AFAD budget has grown to over 1 billion. Because the provinces are getting unexpected infrastructure damage, due to the damage, we're getting additional money from the IRS. It's a bit of an area like this, so it's very difficult to pinpoint its budget at first. But we've raised our budget from 1 billion 248 million to 2 billion 265 million this year compared to last year, and we're going to need it again -- God forbid -- to demand from our finances again. Again, I would like to inform you that there is a Court audit in the tenders, in the works of AFAD. Some of our friends have false information, as there is no control of the Court. Of course, the AFAD is making the tenders faster in its own nature when it needs to, but the audit is already valid in the tenders of AFAD. While the Court is in question, members of the Court, the Court, the bureaucrats, or the authorities are joining us here -- for all other institutions -- but they have no chance to respond to criticisms about them. So if you'll excuse me, I'd like to briefly discuss the Court and its applications. OUR EC PARTY has carried out some really important reforms in the field of public financial control. The removal of restrictions on the control of military goods, the decision to conduct the control of local governments directly by court, the expansion of the scope of the control of public resources, performance and financial control are part of the duties given to the Court during the EC PARTI administrations, and, of course, the independence of the Court and its auditors is guaranteed by the Constitutional Court's decisions. We all know -- we've always lived through this in the debates of the Plan and Budget Commission -- that both the opposition and the ruling parties have benefited from the Court reports so far. Indeed, an independent Court with a strong tradition, technical ability, is conducting inspections on behalf of the Parliament, and we all benefit from it. Dear lawmakers, Turkey is not only dealing with natural disasters but also with migration movements based on various reasons, as well as the location of its geography. In 1989, we welcomed more than 300,000 of our descendants from Bulgaria to our country, thousands of Kurdish brothers who fled the Saddam regime took refuge in Turkey again. Since 2011, nearly 3.5 million Syrian brothers live as asylum seekers in Turkey today due to the Syrian crisis. In these cases, either we would close the doors to our brothers and leave them to die or we would take them in the proper form of the Turkish nation as usual. We chose to open our homes and hearts to our brothers and sisters who fled from oppression and tyranny by the regime of the countries they lived in. It's not a dead end, as someone claims, but rather a choice that will go down in history as our face stream. (AK PARTY) Mr. President and Prime Minister, we have carried out a mission that history has imposed on us by hand with our nation. Dear friends, with hospitality from Turkish history and culture, Necip enjoyed our Syrian brothers at a cost of $30 billion for seven years. Look, in particular, I'd say the cost, that those who know how to account here can distinguish between the concept of spending and the concept of property. On this $30 billion cost, Mr. President has mentioned this number many times, but I regret to inform you that they have tried to cast a shadow on these contributions with incalculable and inconsequential explanations. In return, I did this: I held a press conference because it was about my field of duty, and I did all the explaining I needed with a spreadsheet. In this account, I made it clear to you how much the institution spends year after year, how much the civil society spends, how much the girl spends, how much Turkish money is spent as Turkish money, how much it costs when the year is turned into dry, and in total, it costs 30 billion euros of bail. Dear lawmakers, amongst these 30 billion Turkish liras, they're not really calculated...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0335par0048	Dollars or dollars?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0332par0049	There's no mention of opportunities being used.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0336par0050	Mr. Secretary, the President says dollars, you say Turkish lira.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0332par0051	Adding that to the cost of opportunity, it turns out there's actually a cost over $30 billion. Dear MPs, in fact, everyone knows the superior qualities of this saintly nation, such as cooperation, compassion, hospitality. THE AK PARTY -- thank God -- is worthy of our nation's magnificence and has taken care of nearly 3.5 million Syrian brothers and sisters for our nation's sake. For that reason, I'm very clear, the issue of Syrian asylum seekers is not something that anyone who opens their mouth is going to comment on in a vulgar manner.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0337par0053	Half of them are begging in the street, in front of the mosque, in the lights.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0338par0054	If you hand out $30 billion, the men will come home, for sure.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0332par0055	For those who send delegations to the regime, which is responsible for the first degree, there is nothing in every programme they participate in that they will be recklessly talking about those who complain about the state of the Republic of Turkey in certain circles.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0339par0056	You'll deal with that regime now.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0338par0057	Is it reckless when you ask the account, Mr. Secretary? So where did you spend it? Does it become reckless?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0340par0058	You were on vacation and you were on vacation with Assad.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0341par0059	Dear friends, in fact, let's not be surprised by the attitude of those with a black page, such as the Boraltan Bridge case in their past -- this is very important MPs -- about asylum seekers.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0340par0060	We do not make Assad a murderer, but you do, and you call him Assad my brother.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0342par0061	Let's not interfere.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0341par0062	When our Azerbaijan brothers from the Soviet Union were extradited to Turkey in 1945, many of them were executed with their hands tied behind their backs as soon as they crossed the border gate.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0343par0063	You also delivered the Chinese from Sincan Province. It's one thing to be a state, to protect international law.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0341par0064	When we look at unjust criticism, I think they want to tell us: "Why did you open your borders to the Syrians, open our borders, and stop millions of people from being slaughtered by the Esed regime? Why didn't you leave 3 million Syrians at the mercy of the Esed regime? Why did you save them from the barrel bombs? Why didn't you allow the Syrians to be shot like our Azerbaijan brothers? Again, we, as the AK PARTI government, of course, would take care of our brothers, and then we would continue to take care of them. Some who criticize us for taking care of our brothers and sisters, and we don't accept it, as if it was the government of the Republic of Turkey who persecuted a cruel dictator's own people, as if he were the President of the Republic of Turkey. Dear lawmakers, who, why is disturbed by this approach by Turkey's international humanitarian operation in 56 different countries so far? Why does a Turkish person from Arakan to Chad, Nepal to Bosnia and Solomonia feel uncomfortable about humanitarian aid in a large geography?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0344par0066	No one's bothered, Mr. Secretary. Why should we be disturbed?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0341par0067	Dear friends, our country's humanitarian campaigns as an example of the world are greatly appreciated in international public.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0344par0068	We're uncomfortable with your deception.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0341par0069	Recently, U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi has expressed Turkey's assistance to the Arakan Muslims, the Rohingian Muslims at the International Aid Conference for Arab Refugees: I want to stress that Turkey remains a globally generous donor country in humanitarian aid. Although we have some problems, German Prime Minister Angela Merkel is happy to have Turkey as the host at the World Humanitarian Summit, where we hosted, because Turkey has shown that by accepting 3 million Syrian asylum seekers, it does not just speak on humanitarian aid, but it does. Dear friends, do you know why the world is saying this? Turkey currently has 3 million 381,000 Syrians. Twenty-eight thousand of them have been served at temporary shelters, more than 31 million police services. 612,000 Syrian children are currently studying in schools in Turkey. About 300,000 babies were born in our health institutions in Turkey. Turkey handles all care services from vaccines to examinations of these babies. These are the services that some do not want to see in the international community, which Turkey praises at every opportunity. By the way, the allegations that some terrorists came to Turkey, that they had been trained, that they had been sent back to Syria, I'll make it very clear, that they were a product of delusions. It's impossible to understand why these slanders are made. My dear brothers and sisters, in this year's Global Humanitarian Aid Report, Turkey is second in the world after the United States of America, with six billion dollars in aid in 2016. Compared to our income per person, Turkey is number one in the world. We will continue to work in Syria, Palestine, Somalia, Bangladesh, many needy areas of the world. This is our duty. This is a sacred duty to our governments. This is also a great honor for all AFAD employees. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, one of the other things I'm going to focus on is the issue of human rights. In this regard, unfortunately, Turkey is being attacked without conscience; cruel, excessive, and unrealistic claims are being raised. It is tragic that some of those who criticise Turkey for human rights are from countries that welcome terrorist organisations, that sound is coming out of these places, and that some of them are sticking their backs to the PYD, the YPG, the Kurdistan Workers' Party, or that they are fed directly, indirectly, by the Kurdistan Workers' Party. The last thing the lawmakers are going to talk about is the human rights issue. That should be the last thing anyone should talk about if they continue to contact the elbow. We, as some say, may not have understood their treachery long before December 17th and 25th, accept it.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0345par0075	Why, why?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0346par0076	Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0341par0077	However, it is interesting that those who accuse us of this continue to be deceived after the truth has been revealed. I speak to those who continue to be deceived by the eye, whoever they are.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0345par0079	Mr. Secretary, the state reports came in front of you, why didn't you understand?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0347par0080	I'm going to call the chiefs of operations, Mr. Özdish, please.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0345par0081	Call the guards.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0348par0082	You didn't understand him on December 17th or 25th, and now you don't understand Reza.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0349par0083	In fact, it is far from understandable for them to do so by blowing into their ears, and to expose the rags they were handed into their hands as documents.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0350par0084	Is that what you're saying, Mr. Secretary? Are you trying to make amends by believing?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0348par0085	The Prime Minister showed me a ton of rags from there.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0349par0086	Of course, there is no lesson for us to be taught by employees, such as an organization that, let alone condemn the killings of the PKK and to stand up to them, prepare staff for PKK with their speech and policies.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0350par0087	What you're saying isn't real, it's not real.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0351par0088	Say something else.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0349par0089	Dear friends, there have been significant steps taken in the field of human rights during the time of our government.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0352par0090	The most important thing was to arrest the Memorial of Human Rights, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0353par0091	The Memorial of Human Rights is in custody.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0349par0092	One of the most important things is the subject of our citizens' native language. Different languages and dialects, a sign of our country's cultural wealth, have been seen as a source of danger and concern for many years, unfortunately, by various taboos, denial and rejection policies. But since the first day the AK PARTY came to power, the government has made an effort to eliminate these problems with the power it has taken from our nation. In addition to the official Turkish language of our governments during the period, it has been granted legal security by making it possible to broadcast in their language or different languages, which citizens use traditionally in their daily lives.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0354par0093	What a blessing
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0349par0095	It has been opened for our citizens to name their children without Turkish names. Obstructions of studies in culture and art have been removed. Election studies have also been allowed to use Kurdish propaganda in languages other than Turkish. See, valued lawmakers, the ones we count in a heartbeat are the ones that can't be done in this country in a century. Those who can't appreciate it are the ones who close their eyes and ears to the truth. During the process, as you know, the Kurdistan Departments opened up in our universities.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0355par0098	On paper... on paper...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0356par0099	How many people did you put in public institutions?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0349par0100	While our government has made arrangements for Kurdish to be studied as an elective, someone has called on Kurds not to send their children to these classes, they have found that their true intentions are not rights and freedoms.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0356par0101	How many have you appointed, how many?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0357par0102	What school did you teach in Kurdish?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0349par0103	Like the entire population of 80 million citizens in this country today.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0356par0104	How many people have you assigned to Kurdistan?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0349par0105	The Kurds can't express their identity, their culture. Those who say, don't speak the truth.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0358par0106	The MPs are in prison.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0349par0107	In this country, every ethnic group, every group of belief, can express their culture, their beliefs, their language. Turkey is now a free country.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0359par0108	Yes, he's free to lynch!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0349par0109	We must no longer make statements that will give opportunities to those who accuse Turkey differently under the roof of this Assembly. These facts stand out in the middle.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0360par0110	Whose truth? Real to who?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0361par0111	What about the paramedics' additional appointment, Mr. Secretary? Look, they're texting. They're asking about him.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0349par0112	Dear lawmakers, coups, credits, postmodern coups have always been an obstacle to the progress of our country. Remember February 28th, hundreds of thousands of our citizens were victimized by their beliefs and style of clothing. Because of the coefficient applied in high school, our children didn't get to go to any schools they wanted, even though they deserved it. Our citizens have been dismissed from their jobs because of their disguise chips, and they have no right to their rights. This nation's deputy has been insulted on the stand of this National Assembly for having a headscarf on his head.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0362par0114	Way to go, bravo.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0349par0116	We're denying all of this.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0363par0117	Because he's a citizen of the United States, he's a citizen of the United States...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0349par0118	Not only do we reject them, thank God, but we pride ourselves as a government that throws them into the garbage of history, bringing human rights to this point.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0364par0120	Well done, give him a round of applause.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0363par0122	He was an American citizen, Minister, a citizen of the United States.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0349par0123	Now, I appeal to the consciences and ask the precious MPs...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0363par0124	He was an American citizen, you say. You brought a citizen of the United States and made a deputy in Turkey without shame!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0349par0125	What political will has demonstrated these liberal steps of our governments before? Those who put their backs to terrorist groups may not see it, those who have rented their consciences to terrorist organizations may not see it, and we don't expect it, but today, including our Kurdish brothers in the southeast or Kurdish brothers living in every part of East Anatolia, or Kurdish brothers living in every part of Turkey, those who have been victimized in the past, believe me, they know everything very well. And that's what people know who, in the beginning of pit politics, have troubled our Kurdish brothers and made their lives a living hell. So now that these opportunities are gone, they're disturbed, there's no other reason for their discomfort. There's someone who's got their backs to the villains, but we're going to continue to stick our backs to our people and develop human rights at the highest level. Honourable lawmakers, there are allegations of torture in Turkey, which is sometimes alleged to have happened in the past and is systematic today. Look, we've always said that, so please have these brought to us in concrete. Our Department of Justice, our Ministry of Interior, is sensitive to this issue. I'll give you two examples: H. K. The alleged abuse of the person referred to in court was examined by the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office. The examination of 11 surveillance tapes by a six-person jury revealed that the allegations were false. He was arrested in Şanlıurfa, sent to prison, then taken back to the police station and tortured again, and was examined by the Public Prosecutor's Office of Şanlıurfa. Therefore, those who have come here and thrown these allegations from this council bench to confuse them must embody them and give them to our ministries.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0365par0127	So it was all a lie?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0349par0128	Because, yes, that's what institutions are for, that's what human rights agencies are for.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0366par0129	He's always from the AKP, and all the members of the institution are from the AKP.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0349par0130	That's what the Justice Department is for. If there are those who are committed to such events -- in the name of my government -- it should be clear that we would never, ever tolerate them, but to accuse the Republic of Turkey as if there was systematic torture at its destination today, it is nothing more than to give the imagination an opportunity to give it to a number of forces.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0367par0131	Mr. Secretary, Elazig Prison has been persecuted for three months, three months. Do you know what happens in Elazig Prison?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0349par0132	Dear brothers and sisters, I'd like to take a few steps towards the health I've seen in basic human rights.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0368par0133	Tekirdağ Prison, Tarsus Prison, Bolu Prison, Shakran Prison; they're all in trouble.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0349par0134	As claimed, there was never a plague in the Ministry of Health during the EC PARTY, as someone claimed. Those aren't the right words.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0369par0135	That's where you put the range cult.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0349par0136	This is not an appropriate statement for the presence of this bench.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0369par0137	You put the range cult in the Ministry of Health.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0349par0138	My dear brothers, look, do you know what happened at the Ministry of Health?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0369par0139	That's where you put the whole range cult.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0370par0140	Mr. Tanal, please do not interfere.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0369par0141	The Health Department's in the hands of the Range cult.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0370par0142	Don't interfere with the speaker.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0371par0143	Look what happened during the AK PARTY administrations, where Recep Akdağ made the Ministry of Health for 11 years and four months. I've had a change in health.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0372par0145	You named the cult leader after the Health Department's plane.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0371par0146	The satisfaction of our citizens increased from 39 percent to 76. Do you have an example like this in your history?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0373par0147	Bravo.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0372par0149	You named the health department's plane after the cult leader.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0371par0150	Is there an example in the period of your own power, when citizen satisfaction rose from 39 per cent to 76 per cent?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0373par0151	No, no, no.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0372par0153	Have you ever been to a hospital, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0371par0154	They ask me, "Have you ever been to a hospital?"
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0372par0155	Are you going to the hospital?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0371par0156	Brother, I've been to every hospital in Turkey many times.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0372par0157	Go as a citizen, see if you can be treated.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0371par0158	I've been to 80 provinces many times. Look at you! Take care of yourself, brother!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0374par0159	You went, but where? Chief's office.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0372par0160	Go see if you can cure it!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0375par0161	Dear fellow, there is no such procedure. Please, Congressmans, look, no one interfered with your speakers.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0376par0163	We're talking about an era in which 80 million people have access to health care, valued lawmakers. We're talking about Turkey, where the death of the mothers led to the deaths of 70 mothers for 100,000 pregnant. We're talking about a country where 13 vaccines are made for free, where only the richest countries in the world can get vaccines for free.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0377par0165	What about flu shots, flu shots?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0376par0166	From a time when our people were suffering at the doors of SEC hospitals, in front of pharmacies in their basements, when they were necked in clinics and paid for knives.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0378par0167	It's not being paid now because
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0376par0169	We're talking about a period of transformation when the doctor has access to medicine.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0379par0171	Private hospitals make 200 percent difference.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0380par0172	No medicine, no medicine.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0381par0173	What did you do with your flu shots?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0380par0174	Mr. Secretary, you have a promise to the medics. When's the additional assignment?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0382par0175	Dear lawmakers, do you know that we're talking about a period when a sick Turkish citizen was brought in by plane ambulance, twenty-two hours from South America?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0383par0176	So it's the 21st century.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0380par0177	Paramedics are asking for additional assignments, texting me.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0384par0178	You do it on public taxes.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0385par0179	We're talking about a medical transformation by the World Health Organization, the Harvard University School of Public Health, the world's most powerful medical journal Lancet, The New England Journal of Medicine, which illustrates the world.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0386par0180	Where?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0387par0181	It's not like that. It's not like that.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0388par0182	You're talking about something that doesn't exist.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0389par0183	So don't let someone come in here and try to turn the truth upside down.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0390par0184	They won't understand, Mr. Secretary, they won't understand; don't tell them, they won't understand.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0389par0185	People know exactly what's what.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0391par0186	By God, we haven't had a hospital in six years.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0392par0187	What about the Secretary General of Public Hospitals? You've moved it. You took back what you brought.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0393par0188	Doctors commit suicide from overwork.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0394par0189	Thousands of people can't be assigned for a security investigation.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0395par0190	Dear lawmakers, as you all know, opening the path of individual application to the Constitutional Court is one of the products of the AK PARTI authorities, of our time.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0396par0191	You've given up the Community Hospital Association.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0397par0192	If it's true, why did you pick it up?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0395par0193	Again, my dear brothers, as you all know, in 2012, we established the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey and the Society of Public Control. Later, in 2016, we created a new law to strengthen the Human Rights Institution of Turkey, and we changed the name of the institution to the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0398par0194	It still doesn't have a website.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0395par0195	The application regulation of this institution was published on 24 November 2017 and began to receive institutional applications. Basically, there are three separate structures under the roof of this institution: one is the protection and development of human rights, the second is the national prevention mechanism for the United Nations against torture and malfeasance, and the third is fighting discrimination and equality. The institution has continued its organisation in a way, while it also visited the detention centers from 16 October to 18 October 2017, as part of its responsibility as part of the national prevention mechanism. In the meantime, I would like to express in particular that in order to make our Turkey Human Rights and Equality Foundation more efficient and functional, we have put the institution's staff, financial, technical and physical infrastructure on our programme in 2018 as a government. We're planning a 2018 and 2019, where the board will act effectively in the protection and development of basic rights and freedoms, in the fight against discrimination, for everyone to be treated equally. In the meantime, I'd like to point out that there's an appointment procedure in many European countries that shows a great resemblance to the boards of all European countries, so the procedure in many European countries is written into the law in Turkey, and in this way the board members are appointed. And by the way, there's no way to talk here-- actually, these boards are private agencies, and I wish they had the resources to come and defend themselves when they're criticized for themselves, but there's no such thing here. While he could not stand up and defend himself, there was also criticism of the Public Control Agency, and even criticism of the President himself.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0399par0199	My dear, the ministers represent them here.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0395par0200	Now, my dear friends, we must not be unfair to Kuruma and the President. When people are assigned to a neutral institution, they do not look at their previous political stances or positions.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0400par0201	One or two CHPs to the Ombudsman's Office.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0395par0202	Look, right now, we're electing Speakers, we're electing Parliament Speakers. They are sworn in and serve us here as neutral Speakers and vice presidents.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0401par0203	Your president was sworn in.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0395par0204	Is it required that people be chosen who are completely apolitical?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0402par0205	We don't want an apolisization, we want a CHP appointment. For example, appoint two CHP members to the Ombudsman's office.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0395par0206	So people who have nothing to do with politics, who have never thought about these issues in the past, should be put on these boards?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0403par0207	You don't represent equal.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0395par0208	I want to make it clear that I don't think this approach is right.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0404par0209	Then appoint one MHP. And one HDP.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0395par0210	See, dear friends, as of December 5, 2016, the number of applications to the Public Control Agency rose to 15,707 per cent in 2017 compared to the same period in 2016, while the number of applications solved by friendly solutions reached only 20 per cent in 2013, while the number of applications was only 20 per cent in 2013. Respected lawmakers are the head of the basic rights for people to live in safety. You all know that Turkey faced a brutal, violent attack in July 2016. Thankfully, our nation has defied this attack, and we have been fighting this bloody organization ever since, both Turkey and Turkey. We now capture terrorist groups in Turkey and neutralize them in their dens. This battle is a matter of beka of the Republic of Turkey. The terrorist is a terrorist, whether it's in Kandil, whether it's in Afrin, or in Pennsylvania, he's a terrorist; none of this is any different to us. We, who are under the roof of the Veterans Assembly, must tell everyone, the whole world, and we must surely cooperate in this matter, and we must cooperate. Those who put their backs to the PYD, or to the YPG, as I've just expressed, or to the people who co-operate with the YPG, or to the people who can't carry the people's trust. I'll point out that in the same way as terrorists like us, the people who come to the Veteran Assembly with the votes of the nation, we cannot meet on a common plane. I'm amazed, recently -- our esteemed minister will be in touch with this issue, and I just want to make a very important statement -- there are people who talk about the case in America as if America was doing something right.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0405par0214	You gave me the note, the note!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0406par0215	Zarrab speaking, Zarrab speaking.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0405par0216	Mr. Secretary, you've given me two notes, two notes about Reza Zarrab.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0407par0217	Dear friends, there is a plot against Turkey in the United States of America. Let no one come to the game of this plot, and coming to this plot means nothing but harming the Republic of Turkey. We need to...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0406par0218	Didn't you give him a plaque?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0405par0219	You didn't give a note about Jerusalem, you gave two notes about Zarrab. Tell me that, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0407par0220	My dear brothers, I will finish my conversation with the words concerning Jerusalem.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0405par0221	You didn't give it to Palestine!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0407par0222	For Jerusalem, we say: "The one who is strong the other day is not right, but the one who is right is strong." We don't believe in violence, we believe in justice, we believe in equality. We know... [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm saying something important, look...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0408par0225	Mr. Özdish, look, Ms. Ceyda is here, and all the chiefs are here, according to her, and Mr. Ahmet Bey is here.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0407par0226	From here to the state of Israel, I speak to the United States of America, who have made this unjust decision: We know that those who have been wronged and those who have been wronged will suffer. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0408par0229	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0409par0230	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0408par0231	One second... first, Mr. Ozkoc, let me promise Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Here, I promise you by 60.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0410par0235	First of all, I'd like to thank the former minister, who we don't really know which country he lives in, now for his speech that makes us quite smile. I don't really think there are things that can be answered more seriously, but I'd just like to give you a couple of examples: if he's talking about ending terrorism in this country, and so on, for example, this is a country where he built a bomb in his home yesterday, and he was arrested while he was arrested, that's my hobby. It's also a country where, before my eyes, I've seen how the compensations of the victims of the Blue Marmara have actually been eliminated.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0408par0238	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0410par0239	...how people's consent has been ignored here by the victims of the Blue Marmara. How, in fact, at that time, this day, when he wrote Jerusalem in the same way against the so-called Jerusalem decree, he was signed only outside the HDP, and still thousands of medics were not appointed. And they write to us every day, every day, how many of them write, "When will we be appointed?" That's why we smiled. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0408par0241	Thank you. Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0411par0243	He teased me, saying, "No account, no account, no excess, no reckless explanations of anything that goes into his mouth." I want a promise.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0408par0244	Did he say it to your group?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0411par0245	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0408par0246	Okay, here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Please give me a new...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0412par0249	I didn't say a word, though.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0408par0250	They've been taken over. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0413par0254	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, a man who's a slanderer, a liar always has an evil smile on his face after he's finished his words. If you see this evil smile, speak to your conscience by cooling your heart. This is a person who, despite everything, is capable of letting innocent and victimized people disappear, never forget that. Give us the account of this. When the Middle East war begins, let the United States of America first ask the leaders of the Great Middle East Project, who are being bullied. (HPP) In one and a half months' time, the leader will be martyred by families in Iraq, women, reciters of persecution at the minaret, and we will bring freedom here on all televisions, and I will be the co-chair of it. God will not forgive those who are members of the government, nor will forgive those who are Muslims. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In the Middle East war, 3 million 750,000 Muslims were killed. Even during the Crusade, so many people have not died. They had women, girls, Muslim women, children, naked on top of each other, and they had their picture taken. They are responsible for this government and its head. Guys, I don't have enough time. Here's a statement about the Syrians he just called: security and public services, health care, education services, municipal services... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...they were given the cost of the Firat Shield area, the zero point humanitarian aid, the campaigns organised by municipalities... because they were not able to collect them for $34 billion just now, Mr. Secretary said 34 million.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0414par0261	He said TL, he said TL.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0413par0262	He said $34 million, because he couldn't say 120 quadrillion... The people they left on the street, starving, miserable...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0415par0263	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch, your time is up.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0413par0264	...the government who made a deal with the European countries over them, the children and women who were drowning in the dark waters of the Mediterranean, who didn't do anything, who turned a blind eye, and we showed him so that we could get three cents from Europe?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0415par0265	Mr. Ozkoch, please...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0413par0266	He is wrong, he is wrong in the PKK, he is wrong in the sledgehammer, he is wrong in Ergenekon.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0416par0268	Mr. President, there's no such thing as a procedure.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0417par0269	Mr. President, what is this!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0418par0270	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0419par0271	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0420par0272	You've invaded the podium.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0421par0273	...the mouthpieces of this state are mufters, liars.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0420par0275	Mr. President, there's no such thing as a procedure.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0422par0276	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0423par0277	I want to talk to you about picking on me and our government.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0422par0278	Here you are, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0424par0280	How he picked on her, what he said, let him say it again. As for us, why don't you ask them?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0425par0281	Why does he want to tell you his reason?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0422par0282	Here you go, sir. Don't challenge a new tease.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0426par0284	If the precious MP who just appeared on this stand has used the liar and the liar and the devil's smile on my behalf, I'm returning it to him.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0427par0286	I'm returning it to you as well.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0426par0287	I'm giving it back to you with more than enough.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0427par0288	And I'll return it to you with four times as much.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0428par0289	Friends, members of the law, I mean, does it look good on you? Please...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0427par0290	Just because you're a minister doesn't mean you're anything. You can't threaten me from there.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0429par0291	He doesn't like your statements on this council bench...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0428par0292	Such approaches are not right.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0427par0293	You speak against the Republican People's Party, speak your language!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0429par0294	I don't think you're going to be able to...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0430par0295	The opposition forever, Mr. Secretary, speak accordingly.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0427par0296	Know your place!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0431par0297	Disrespectful!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0432par0298	Look at me...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0427par0299	Speak your piece, this is the office of the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0432par0300	You're not the kind of guy who'd call me that.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0427par0301	You can't talk like that! Know your place and talk!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0432par0302	You don't give me shit! I'll kick your ass if I have to kick your ass!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0433par0303	Mr. Ozkoch, please... you spoke here, Mr. Ozkoc.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0427par0304	Speech! Know your place!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0434par0305	Mr. Secretary, look at your speech.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0433par0306	Mr. Ozkoc, you have no right to talk to him, not to talk to him, please.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0435par0307	By the way, let me make a correction: yes, it's not $34 billion -- it's given us an opportunity, Congressman -- $30 billion, plus opportunity costs, $34 billion. We've always expressed $30 billion as numbers we don't express opportunity costs. Dear lawmakers, look, it's the same thing. What we do about the Syrian war is we take care of our Syrian brothers, we embrace 3.5 million Syrians. We strongly deny that the lawmaker who came up here can't bring the cruelty of Esed (Esed) upon the Republic of Turkey (Turkish Republic).
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0436par0310	Sing Assad, my brother!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0435par0311	After Esed began this cruel act of cruelty, Esed was the partner of those who sent the MPs there to take pictures, and that was the issue.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0437par0313	You have expressed your condolences to the American soldiers.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0438par0314	That's enough!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0435par0315	What we do is nothing more than assist, support, and open our hearts to our fellow tyrants, who have been persecuted by a tyrant, and that is how it will continue.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0439par0316	You're doing it over them.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0440par0317	You'll be sitting together in three days.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0435par0318	I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit05spe0441par0320	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0441par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2018 2) The President's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Court's Central Management Final Account for 2016 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Constitutional Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2016 1) Supreme Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Prime Ministership 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2018 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2016 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The National Management Budget of 2018 2) The Editor-in-Chief for Religious Affairs 2016 Central Management Final Account E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Final Account for 2016 The commission and the government are in place. In the name of the government, it belongs to Mr. Bekir Bozdağ. Here you are, Mr. Bozdağ. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is forty minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0442par0054	Mr. President, I'm here to discuss the views of our government on the Constitutional Court, the Presidential Office, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court and the Chair of Religious Affairs, the National Intelligence Agency, the National Security Council 2016 Final Account Bill and the budget budget bill of 2018. I hereby salute the esteemed Presidential Court and lawmakers of our Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'd like to extend a separate thank-you to everyone who contributes in the preparation of our budget, in the negotiations of the Commission and in the General Assembly talks. I hope our budget will be good for our country, for our nation, for all of us. Honorable MPs are the head of state according to our Constitution and represent the Republic of Turkey and the unity of the nation. The President also ensures the implementation of the Constitution and that state bodies work in harmony with each other, and in our Constitution, he performs other duties in law enforcement, execution, judicial duties, and other duties in law enforcement. Our Constitution has a very important place reserved for the President. It is of course a very important duty to be head of state and to represent the republic and the unity of the nation, to ensure the proper implementation of the Constitution, and to ensure that institutions work in harmony with the bodies. Of course, it is essential that we all speak in a certain language of respect to the President, who is in such important positions and head of state. The language of respect for the president is first respect for our state...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0443par0058	But he's the president of a party.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0442par0059	...respect for the Republic, respect for the unity of the nation he represents, respect for the Constitution, respect for any property of our state, respect for its institutions.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0443par0060	Your President General.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0444par0061	That is respect for the AKP.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0442par0062	And disrespect means a simultaneous disrespect for all of this.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0444par0063	Do we have to respect you?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0442par0064	It is not against our Constitution to have a political personality because, as you know, the Constitutional Amendment adopted on April 16th...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0445par0065	What was it before that?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0442par0066	...has previously been cut off from the Party of the President. The Constitution has been removed from the Constitution and has officially opened the way for presidents to make politics according to the Constitution.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0446par0067	Then the government will not speak as the state...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0442par0068	This is not the first time Turkey has faced a new situation. The founder of our Republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, served as the President of the Republican People's Party for fifteen years, as well as the President of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0447par0069	Was there another party then?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0442par0070	Again, Hakeza, Ismet Inönun (Ismet) has thirty-three years as President, and a significant part of which has passed both as President and General President. Of course, both the fact that Ataturk (Ataturk) served as both the President-General and the President-General may, of course, have been the subject of criticism, because after 1940, we have all witnessed these criticisms together, but then, in other times, those who criticised this way did not produce a criticism of neutrality from this place. Because we, all of us, know very well that the presidents are directly concerned with the country's internal and external security, politics, foreign policy, economics, law, every aspect of it. Can you imagine the city councilman talking about everything, the mayor, the MP, the presidents of the parties, NGOs, journalists, universities, the ministers, everyone will speak, but if the president of the country says the country's views on the country's progress, it would be wrong if he said so, he lost his neutrality. It's against the nature of the job.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0448par0071	He won't shut up. He won't shut up.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0442par0072	A person who is at the top of the state, such as the President, who is in charge of ensuring the implementation of the Constitution, the law, the execution, the duty of the judiciary and the head of the administration at the same time, is to ask the President not to speak in the first place. This is contrary to the Constitution.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0449par0073	He won't talk, he'll figure it out.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0442par0074	We will open the Constitution and look at it, and the Constitution has not foreseen a symbolic president.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0450par0075	Let him not speak. Let him be silent.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0442par0076	Our Constitution has never, ever foreseen a president who's just doing protocol. Therefore, the President has the right to speak to the Parliament about all kinds of matters. As a matter of fact, when you look at the opening remarks made by the presidents in parliament on October 1st, all the presidents before have shared their views on security, foreign policy, economics, justice, education and so on with the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and on different platforms, with everyone, no one has brought their criticism of neutrality. In addition, the Prime Minister is elected from a party in the system, the party's member, the party's leader, the MP, the group president, but is also taking the most important role in running it. When he becomes a prime minister, he doesn't cast a shadow on his neutrality; when he's mayor, he's a party member; I'm a minister, I'm a minister; when I'm a minister, he doesn't cast a shadow on my neutrality; but if the president is a party, his disparity will be clouded. The Constitution is to read backwards; it's a double standard.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0451par0078	The president is the head of state, the state; the Prime Minister is not the head of state.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0452par0079	Yeah, that's what the Constitution says.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0453par0080	It represents the integrity of the country.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0454par0081	Look, I'll get to the oath-related clause. It's the most commonly used oath material, and I'd like to share an evaluation there. I'd like to ask you all to consider the neutrality mentioned in the oath clause. And he says that I will work with all my might... to carry out my duty in neutrality.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0455par0082	Is it working?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0454par0083	The duty I've taken... is to be objective here, to be objective in the field, to carry out the duties given by the Constitution and by the law, to live, to conduct, to carry out the duties of the judiciary.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0456par0084	The man who says, "If there's no one there, there's no one there, there's no one there."
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0454par0085	If not, the President will be in charge of the country's political concerns...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0457par0086	How can the president of a party be neutral?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0454par0087	...in economic matters of the country, outside and domestic policy, it does not speak of neutrality in terms of security. You have to put it in the right place, and within the principles of our Constitution, the President of the Republic of Turkey, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0458par0088	Chairman of the AKP...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0454par0089	... touse and fulfill his duties and powers objectively according to the Constitution. [ Applause ] No one should hesitate in this. But when it comes to Turkey, when it comes to Turkey's interests, when it comes to the interests of the nation, the President is the unwavering party in all these matters, and will continue to be a party after that. What could be more true, more natural? Of course, there are some issues against the President.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0459par0091	They told the AKP President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0460par0092	We're talking to the AKP President.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0454par0093	It's a crime in our penal code. Look, I'll tell you something else. I brought the law. Our law has been considered an insult to the President since 1926.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0459par0094	Yes, to the President, but not to the AKP President.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0454par0095	After 1961, a change of rights is being made, again considered a crime, and according to the new Penal Code, it is considered a crime.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0461par0096	We're criticizing the AKP President.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0454par0097	Sir, now that he's the president, he needs to change... well, I'm asking him: he was our President of Ataturk, and he was also the President of the CHP, wasn't he? Why did he stop here?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0462par0099	It was a one-party period.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0454par0100	He was the President of Ismet Inönu, but he was also the President-General, wasn't he? Why did it stop? It's a crime to insult the President. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Every period is a crime, we didn't commit a crime.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0462par0101	Go forward, don't go back, go forward.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0454par0102	Second, look, crime in Italy, crime in Poland, crime in Spain, crime in Germany, crime in France, crime in Belgium, crime in every country, crime in every country.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0463par0103	Critics against the chairman of the EC PARTY are not crimes.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0454par0104	But there's a difference between us and them, when they're talking to the president, when they're talking about him, they don't mix insults, disrespects, conversationalism.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0464par0105	Because their president doesn't insult the public.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0454par0106	Unfortunately, in our country today, when we were talking about our President, he said he had an interview. I've just brought in some vision-explaining stuff.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0465par0107	Is the president there talking morning and evening? Does he insult the opposition?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0454par0108	Well, look, Congressman, I've got the files, so I'll give you those files.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0465par0109	The presidents there don't talk morning and night.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0454par0110	Since when does it make sense to curse your wife, your mother, your father, your child, your seven curses?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0466par0112	No one's defending the blasphemous blasphemy, Mr. President. No one's defending the blasphemous blasphemy. It's an insult from your president...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0454par0113	That's blasphemy. That's an insult. In our laws, crime is unacceptable in terms of common morality and in terms of our culture.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0467par0114	President of Trolista.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0466par0115	Then you'll tell all this to your president. He is the disbeliever, the disbeliever, the disbeliever, the disbeliever.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0454par0116	Anyone who insults the president will surely be rewarded. It is vital that we all separate between insults and thought. In previous presidents, Mr. Gul, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Sezer, and all others, there are judgments on this clause. It's all been implemented during the period, so it's okay, it's okay now.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0468par0118	How many cases, how many cases?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0469par0119	How many cases are there?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0470par0120	Sezer wasn't the leader of a party, he wasn't Ironel, none of them was the leader of a party.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0471par0121	Why? Because it's used in a very different way, politically to wear out our President. So, another thing: when the president and the government establish their views on the interests of Turkey, what reason does it have for determining their position?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0472par0123	To protect his power, to protect his power.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0473par0124	One man's flatterer!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0471par0125	Loud and clear: it's based on the common interests of the state of the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0474par0126	Was he a partner when he was walking the same road as Å, as he went to the same range? Was he thinking about our interests?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0471par0127	When it comes to the interests of our nation and our state, let alone a country, a country's leader, we're not afraid to take on the world. When it comes to Turkey, we don't see anyone.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0475par0129	You call America one day, my friend, one day my post.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0471par0130	As we proved in the War of Salvation, in the years of Jahan War, as we proved in Operation Cyprus, many events have been witnessed, as we proved on July 15th. It'll be the same from now on.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0476par0131	Why can't you prove it on these 18 islands?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0471par0132	Now, it's said: "Why did the president talk about Lauzan? Why won't he speak?"
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0477par0133	What happened to the islands, the islands?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0471par0134	Our President went to visit Greece, opened it himself, and said, "Lozan cannot be replaced, cannot be updated; I am a lawyer." What are we waiting for, our President won't protect the Turkish nation's law, the state of Turkey? What did he say? "Lozan can be updated," he said, protecting the people's law.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0478par0136	Lausanne is the property of the Republic of Turkey. Lausanne is a deed to the deed, Mr. Secretary, if you don't know, find out.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0471par0137	Now, in the same place as President Pavlopoulos, we don't discuss Lausanne. Greece says the same thing, and you say the same. Is that a thing? Oh, no.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0479par0139	In Lausanne, the islands are ours. He wants to update? Let's get the Turkish flag on the islands, get the Turkish flag up to speed.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0471par0140	Now, look, it's very clear, very...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0480par0141	You delivered the islands to Greece.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0471par0142	In our time, the state of the Republic of Turkey did not go back a mile in any of the status before us in the Aegean.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0481par0143	Yeah, 18 islands have been flagged, just now!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0471par0144	We've protected the law of our nation and our state to the end, and we'll protect it from now on.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0482par0145	For God's sake, for God's sake! If you want to update it, you'll go up to those islands, you'll draw the Turkish flag, like Solomon Shah, you won't run away. He was going to sing 18 candidates there.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0471par0146	Now, about Trump, sir, why did he say that? What do we say now? Mr. Trump, why are you sending these weapons when the President of Turkey is sending trucks to the extension of the U.S. government PKK/YPG?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0482par0147	Of course he will, he will.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0471par0148	He'll be afraid, scared, scared because things are falling apart between us? (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Would that happen? Those weapons are a threat to us, to Turkey, to our country. I'm being very clear. Of course he'll protect the people's law.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0482par0149	Ask him, ask him, ask him about 18 candidates.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0483par0150	Mr. Bozdağ, just a moment... Congressmans, the speaker on the stand, why are you talking, why are you talking?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0482par0152	He's asking questions.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0483par0153	When your speakers spoke, no one interfered.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0482par0154	Mr. President, he's asking us, and we're responding.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0483par0155	Please, please don't interfere. If so, you'll get a promise of bullying.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0484par0156	Mr. President, why is the Minister addressing us?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0157	Mr. President, I'd like to add to my time.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0483par0158	Here you are, Mr. Bozdağ.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0159	Jerusalem is now on the agenda. Now, America has decided to move its embassy to Jerusalem. Jerusalem is a city where all Muslims and heavenly religions value our first prayer...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0486par0160	Yeah...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0161	...a witness to the miracle of honor...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0486par0162	Yeah...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0163	And in a place like this, in a place where all Muslims have a red line, in the Middle East, when he makes such a statement that sets the already fragile peace process on fire, won't he say "Turkey"?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0486par0165	We're saying it! Aren't we?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0166	You throw the region into disaster, you throw it into fire, you bomb peace, you destroy peace. Won't it say?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0487par0167	Write it down, then!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0488par0168	The note, the note!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0169	Who's he gonna stand for? Of course, he'll take a stand for the law of the nation and the state.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0489par0170	Is your note full?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0171	No one should expect Turkey to remain big in Israel.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0490par0172	Shut down the Israeli Embassy, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0491par0173	Mr. Secretary, who's expecting this? Who's waiting?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0174	Turkey's voice will always be loud against what it did to the Palestinians, what it did to the Gazans, the disrespect they did to the relics in Jerusalem.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0492par0175	Did you return the Jewish Medal of Courage? It's still there, return it first.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0493par0176	Shut down the Israeli Embassy!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0177	Look, I'm telling you, those who think you're going to weaken our president and our government about Israel think it's futile, that's one of the things we're most powerful at.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0494par0178	What are you gonna do?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0495par0179	Call off the ambassador.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0180	You know how to kill a president of Israel.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0496par0182	Congressmans, I beg you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0183	You come together with Israel so that no one can say. Is that an example?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0497par0185	Sixteen-year-old boy died, Furkan.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0186	What leader of the world dares to say that?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0498par0187	Do you believe what he says?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0188	The government also made the first apology to Israel in the Blue Marmara. The leader is again our President. They accepted compensation, took the step that eased the embargo, and accepted Turkey's thesis.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0498par0189	Minister, let's make a deal, break the Blue Marmara, withdraw the ambassador, return the Medal of Courage, do all this, give you a round of applause.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0190	Look, here, I'd like to make another point. There's talk of deals. A lot of contracts were signed there.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0499par0191	There's a blue marmara, blue marmara!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0192	And during the Vice Prime Minister of Ismet Inönul..
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0500par0193	He asks me, I answer. For God's sake!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0194	...in the prime minister's office of Ecevit, in the President of Demirel, in the prime minister's office, all the agreements are clearly written. I left them there, if you'd just send me those deals.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0500par0195	No, let's watch the video! Let's watch the video! When you go to Jerusalem... let's watch the video.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0196	Look, it's all written down, Jerusalem. No one says it's signed in Jerusalem. Then you know it. It's different now that it's said here.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0500par0198	When you went to Jerusalem, what did you say to Jerusalem when it was called the capital of Israel?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0501par0199	Congressmans, look, if they're this involved in your speech, I won't interfere. Please...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0200	These are very specific things. I'd like to express from here in particular...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0501par0202	Please treat me as you would like to be treated.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0203	It is our duty to protect the law of the state of the Republic of Turkey, its nation.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0502par0204	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0501par0205	But they've been talking for an hour. Shut them up.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0206	Here's the deal. What does it say here? Erdal Inönu, Secretary of State and Deputy Prime Minister. When? The additional agreement, signed in Jerusalem on 1 June 1992, says "Agreement." How many are there? There's dozens of them.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0503par0207	You break it, you break it. You've been in the government for 15 years. If that was wrong, you should've done it right. Is anyone holding your hand?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0208	For God's sake! What are you doing? That's where you come in, trying to figure out how to wear us out. You can't shoot us from here.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0504par0209	Mr. Secretary, you sold the Blue Marmara for $20 million, $20 million.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0210	Jerusalem is in our soul, in our hearts, in our minds. If a world were to fall, we would not give up Jerusalem.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0505par0212	We don't cross, we don't cross. But we don't say that in three months we'll clear the area. We won't say that.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0213	Although the Palestinians, Gazans, all Arabs give up Jerusalem, Turkey will not give up, the Turkish nation will not give up. Everyone needs to know that very well. Another issue, valued lawmakers, as you know, experienced a coup attempt on July 15th, Turkey.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0505par0215	That's $20 million. The cost of all Jerusalem is $20 million for you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0506par0216	Your Jerusalem is $20 million.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0217	After this coup attempt, we've declared a state of emergency. We did this to successfully carry out our country's active fight against the fetullahist terrorist organization and other terrorist organizations. Our idea wasn't to extend the state of emergency, but the needs that have arisen have shown the necessity to prolong the extraordinary state. After that, the extraordinary state of Turkey will continue to be extraordinary as long as the need for extension continues.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0505par0218	What do you need, Mr. Secretary? What do you need it for? Can you tell me what you need? So it's taking away the worker's right to be a unionist, taking away his right to strike?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0219	Of course, our government, the National Security Council, will appreciate and do what is necessary. I want to make it very clear from here that the first government to declare the Fetullahist terrorist organization a terrorist organization is the government of the Republic of the AK PARTI.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0505par0220	Bravo, bravo
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0222	No government before us has declared it a terrorist organization. Bring it if you have it.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0505par0223	Bravo, bravo
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0225	No government before us has declared it a terrorist organization. Bring it if you have it. How many republics have passed before us?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0505par0226	When?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0507par0227	Well, he's not as staffed as you are.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0228	This is the government you claim to have declared. If Aleppo's there, it's here. Bring him in. It has 40 years of history, 40 years old. Twenty-five years before us. But why didn't governments in 25 years declare a terrorist organization? Why didn't he close the classrooms?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0505par0229	Because of you. You're dying to hear that you're called the Reverend Hodja.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0230	Why didn't he confiscate the broadcast organs? Why didn't he confiscate their school?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0505par0231	Because of you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0232	Why didn't he take over the companies that financed them, and why didn't the judicial proceedings take place?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0505par0233	You were making a scene here when you said something to Fetullah.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0234	When you look at it, it's the power of the AK PARTY that's doing all this, running it.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0505par0235	Mr. Secretary, weren't you making a scene here when we spoke to Fetullah?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0508par0236	You're the one who cleared him, you! He was acquitted during your time!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0237	Look, I'm very clear that the government will continue to continue a fight with all terrorist organizations, including the Fetullahist terrorist organization, without hesitation, without purpose and without purpose. There's never going to be a release here, and there won't be any more. Public cleansing was done within the framework of our Constitution and the exhumation of the KHK. The 129th article of the Constitution is very clear, what does it say? Officers and other public officials are obliged to operate by remaining loyal to the Constitution and the law.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0509par0239	You didn't leave an officer, you exported them all.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0240	So the Constitution has a duty of loyalty to the Law and to the Law. No state can be forced to employ people he doubts his loyalty to.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0510par0241	When, what judgment decided that?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0242	And when he notices something suspicious about his loyalty, he can't keep it there even if he's been in the service before.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0511par0243	Is loyalty to the Constitution and loyalty to the AKP the same?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0244	Other countries have also made these cleansing policies.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0512par0245	Is there a slave order, Mr. Secretary? Do officers have to love AKP?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0246	After the dissolution of the Soviets, the countries that left the communist bloc followed the new regime and applied a lot of decontamination policies. Why? They did it because their loyalty was to the previous regime.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0513par0247	You're liquidating.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0248	What we do in this sense is a policy of cleansing in accordance with the Constitution and our laws. So I'll make it very clear from here that we're not going to be able to accommodate those who are involved in terrorist organizations, connected or in membership, no matter what their name is in our government, and we're not going to hesitate to do what we need to do when we find them.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0514par0249	Where's his political foot?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0250	He who faithfully serves his government has a place above our heads. Our constitution, our laws, gives our government the authority to save money at this point. No one should worry about that. There was also talk about DEASH. Look, DEAŞ is the enemy of Islam, the enemy of Muslims.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0515par0252	You called them angry children.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0253	The subsidiary of Islamic enemies and Muslim enemies is an international project terrorist organization.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0516par0254	What were you saying, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0255	Turkey is the only country to fight this terrorist organisation honestly.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0516par0256	You were saying? Open a fingernail...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0257	We're the ones who fought unaccounted for. Look, right now there are 3,627 investigations in Turkey. There are also cases against many others, and 1,128 people are currently under arrest in Turkey. In order to keep this DEAS terrorist organization safe, as with other terrorist organizations...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0517par0258	Why did you wait until Antwerp exploded?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0516par0259	But they were your angry children, your angry children!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0260	...and after that, we will continue to fight effectively. No one should worry about that.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0516par0261	Mr. Secretary, they were your angry children, angry!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0262	Dear MPs, of course, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, are among the high courts in our Constitutional Court.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0516par0263	You'll make the mistakes, then you'll make the expenses.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0264	They perform important tasks, which the Constitution has entrusted them with, and they perform them successfully. The Turkish judiciary is a trial that has managed to defend itself against the Fetullahist terrorist organisation's attempt to invade the judiciary. Even though all those members of the Fetullahite terrorist organization had somehow infiltrated him, he protected himself, and then, some time later, he threw them out. Their suspension is a step to maintain the independence and neutrality of the judiciary. If a judge or prosecutor is going to ask the terrorist leader in Pennsylvania, if he's investigating, we can't talk about an independent and impartial judge, a prosecutor.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0518par0265	You did, you did!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0516par0266	And now he's taking orders from the palace because he's afraid none of them can decide.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0267	It has lost its quality, so it has lost its right to wear it with dignity. Such a person is impossible to maintain in judgment.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0516par0268	How's that?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0269	The HSK has made good decisions at this point and has removed those who cast a shadow on the independent and impartial quality of our judiciary from the judiciary. The Supreme Court, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court have made the right and proper decisions at this point, and I congratulate them all. In addition, during the coup attempt on July 15, 2016, the Turkish judiciary passed a major test. No matter what his political opinion, no matter what his understanding, I give thanks to all the judges from here on behalf of my own and our government, thank you. There have been many blows before, either the frontal frontal force of the coups has been judged, or in the early hours of the coup, the first protagonist has been judged, and after the coup, we have a judgment that legitimises the coup, leading to their injustices. But for the first time, there's a judgment that doesn't pledge allegiance to coups and coups, that defies them. I applaud this judgment standing up, thank you all.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0519par0271	Bravo!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0272	That night, at times when the success or failure of the coup was unclear, they made the arrest, detention, arrest decisions, and decided to remove their hands from many jobs; that is a great courage.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0520par0273	Where is Zechariah Oz, Zechariah Oz?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0274	Justice was standing, justice was standing in a place where everyone was hiding, scared, fled; our prosecutors, our judges, our Supreme Court, our Supreme Court, our Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court of Judges and Prosecutors were standing; and for that, I am celebrating. But from here, I'd like to express to the Chief Prosecutor, to the Supreme Court, that there's been a huge injustice here. His meeting with our President is out of respect for our President. It is not possible for him to demonstrate his respect as a decorum, to consider it a violation of the judiciary and the independence of the judiciary.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0520par0276	Why don't you make some tea?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0277	The head of state represents the President, the Republic, the nation. It is natural for the judge to respect the head of the court and the president of the Constitutional Court and the head of the House, the representative of the state, the representative of the nation and the republic, the person responsible for providing the proper implementation of the Constitution, the right one, the decent one, the moral one.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0520par0279	It's not enough for him to pick up tea, he should've brewed it up!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0485par0280	Can you imagine now that there is a huge criticism of our culture, our morality, our Constitution, and the heads of the court and its members who have acted according to our Constitution?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0521par0281	Is there a place in the Constitution to collect tea?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0522par0282	The robes have been sent from the palace with buttons!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0521par0283	Is it in the Constitution?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0284	But if we're gonna be critical, you know who we're gonna do it to? We'll do the review here.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0524par0285	Justice gets shoeed while you collect tea.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0286	When? Look, 10 June 1997, the General Staff Orbay Hall, a briefing of about 400 judicial members, the President of the Constitutional Court -- I don't give names -- the Supreme Court Attorney, Chief of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Prosecutor -- went there later showing the way to 367. They cheered with their robes.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0525par0287	They didn't bomb the House, yours bombed the House, yours.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0288	Now, that's dishonorable. It's clouding the independence of the judiciary, its neutrality. It's about assigning judgment to the soldier's orders. (AK PARTY) Now, there is a Supreme Court, the Chief Prosecutor, who has been criticized for walking, for drinking tea, because he sat next to a leader who had gone and challenged the coup.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0526par0289	He's got tea.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0290	It wasn't with the coupgers. That didn't happen with the beneficiaries.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0527par0291	At the court's behest, at the court's behest.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0292	He hasn't done any harm to these people, and he won't. I feel that both our Supreme Court President and the Supreme Court's president have been wronged, and that's what I'm saying as someone who knows them well.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0527par0293	Where does the D.A.'s daughter work?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0294	There's a case going on in America.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0528par0295	This year, the Chief Prosecutor will decide the price of tea.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0296	And finally, I want to talk about him. Now it's called the Zarrab case, it seems very clearly. Look, the last statement came out. The terrorist who conducted the December 17 investigation was there. I brought the documents, the pieces of paper. He says, "It's a witness; it's a witness."
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0529par0297	Why did you give me a note?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0530par0298	Why did you give me a note?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0299	Now, there's a banker there, a deserter -- there's a signature on a piece of paper called "Rapor" -- that's where the witness is.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0531par0300	You were curious about his health.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0301	Now, an NTK expert has been appointed to finance an NGO, where he is the official expert.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0532par0302	You're curious about Reza's health.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0303	The judge who did the trial was brought to Turkey in May 2014, where he made a statement to support the 17-25 December process, and he is the judge.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0532par0304	How did you get it into the cosmic room?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0533par0305	Why did you give me a note?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0306	Zarrab was pressured by the threat of punishment or hope of dating, forced to be slanderous.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0533par0307	You knew all this, but why did you give me a note?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0308	And now, here, look, there's a trial like this.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0534par0309	How did you get them into the cosmic room, the cosmic room?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0310	Now, will there be justice here?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0535par0311	Don't give notes for Cyprus, don't give notes for the sacked soldiers, now you're going to give two notes for Reza, you're going to tell me this!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0312	An expert on the logistics, testimony, support, the decision made by the judges of Turkey cannot condemn Turkey, and there is no way they can complete the unfinished plot here in the United States.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0535par0313	Turkey doesn't convict, no one can!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0536par0314	He's condemning crooks, crooks!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0315	It's a conspiracy, and everything that's going on here has been investigated by the D.A. in Turkey...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0537par0316	Mr. Secretary, let's retrial Zafer Calayan. Then he has received 50m euros in bribes, they say.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0317	... It's been investigated by the Clave, and the decisions have been made. There's nothing new, there's slanders, there's lies, there's no right to wear Turkey out with these lies, there's no right, there's no right.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0538par0318	Why doesn't victory come?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0539par0319	Neither do you, nor do you!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0320	Our position on these things is very clear, and from now on, we will continue to maintain our position on the side of the nation.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0540par0321	Mr. Secretary, is that the note of the conspiracy, too, and that's where you were set up?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0539par0322	You've all become musicians from passing notes!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0323	Of course, a lot has been said about MIT (MIT) before coming to the issue of the Head of Religious Affairs.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0541par0324	Why doesn't victory come? Why doesn't victory come?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0325	I'd like to make a brief mention of the location here.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0542par0326	What happened to Solomon Aslan's money, $4.5 million? You returned it with interest. What happened to this forbidden money, forbidden money?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0327	Look, the National Intelligence Agency is very concerned about the security of our country, and it's doing important tasks with its support at the cost of its life. It's very easy to criticize them here, in these red seats, but inside the MIT are heroes who struggle day and night for the sake of our nation and our state. And I salute those heroes from here.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0543par0328	Why did you kidnap them, put them in the cosmic room, the cosmic room?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0329	Is there anyone in this that's wrong? Maybe, like everywhere else, they'll be questioned about it.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0544par0330	We didn't see it. There are two failed institutions, one in the coup, one in the MET, one in the General Staff; both in progress.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0331	The commitment of the MET was to the Prime Minister and to the President has been changed. The MIT now transmits its intelligence to the President, the Prime Minister, the relevant ministers, the Chief of Staff and the institutions it considers necessary. Again, the President and the Council of Ministers carry out their duties concerning the country's external and domestic security and the fight against terrorism. The MIT is not working with a person, it is working with all the bodies of the state, its institutions, its government, its Joint Chiefs of Staff, its President.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0545par0332	You learn from your brother-in-law, but you learn from your brother-in-law!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0544par0333	You learned the coup from your brother-in-law, where was Hakan Fidan?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0334	When you work with the Prime Minister, he's not the only man, he's the only one working with the President! Is that a thing? Okay?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0544par0335	Where was Hakan Fidan? Where was Hakan Fidan when he learned about the coup from his brother-in-law?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0546par0336	You only learn from your brother-in-law?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0337	Look, I'm also saying about the coup attempt, of course, there's a lot of criticism here against MIT, and I have a lot of criticism, but I have to say that the previous blows were always caught in sleep, and then they had the S.E.I.S., they had the M.I.S., and how do we manage the silent coup with the fighters?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0544par0338	Now there are brothers-in-laws, brothers-in-laws, both on the island of Man and inside MIT.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0339	But the coup failed, they failed, and with the lack of MIT, he played one of the most important roles in the failure of this coup. And we all have to hand it over.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0544par0341	Now there are uncles, brothers-in-laws; uncles inform me.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0342	The people who sacrificed their lives for the cause of this country will not be of any benefit to this nation or to this state, nor will it be of any benefit to us.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0547par0343	I learned from my brother-in-law. He said, "Mr. Minister."
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0344	They don't do drum roll.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0548par0345	Mr. Secretary, who informed the President of the coup? Who informed the President of the coup?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0346	It's their duty to keep a low profile.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0549par0347	You're giving the money to your brother-in-law, the budget? Did you give your brother-in-law the budget of the MIT?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0348	It's very important that people act with respect to these heroes who protect the state's law at the expense of their lives.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0550par0349	He shouldn't have stopped one day at the head of that MIT.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0350	Well, another thing is the Head of Religious Affairs. A very important institution, an institution founded by Ataturk, and has been performing important tasks in our country since the founding of our republic. It has a place in the Constitution, and it has a place in our laws, and the Ministry of Religious Affairs is an organization founded to conduct works on the beliefs, worship and morality of Islamic religion, to enlighten the people in matters of religion, to run places of worship. It's the first duty of the Dianet to enlighten the community in matters of religion. We have been taught how important a mission has been made to the Dianet about terrorist organisations such as these GERPs and DEAS.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0551par0351	ISIS people train in madrases. ISIS militants are growing all over the place.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0352	There's something to be delivered here, so there's something to be said: Surely it's too late for our Ministry of Religious Affairs to work on it. Of course, it is vital that he do so earlier, to enlighten the community on the subject of deviant, religious movements. The Ministry of Religious Affairs will closely monitor all of the religious books published in the following process and will explain and inform the community of reports that enlighten the community about them.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0552par0353	You lied for years. He forbade the book of religious events for us.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0354	He won't be allowed to be late and will not allow for further processes, and I want to stress that in particular. Another issue was the Society's Law of the Head of Religious Affairs in 1965, but the Constitutional Court had broken the arm of this law and made it almost illegal. We corrected it, and for the first time in 2010, we restored Law 6002 to Ministry of Religious Affairs.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0552par0356	Today, he says, "The price is not called the price." "Diyanet."
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0357	And we've lifted the bans on Koran courses. Without finishing five years of primary school, without reaching the age of 12, it was forbidden to go to summer Koran courses; without filling 15, it was forbidden to go to memory, knitting courses; we removed them, and set them free. We've brought in a budget payment for the Koran courses, and we've put them in our ban. We have authorized municipal and private administration laws to transfer funds from their budgets on religious facilities and to do so, preempting them in this area. To meet the needs of our citizens abroad, we put the International Divine Programme on the agenda and brought it to a point. We will also take an important step in the coming days, such as the Bible Academy. From now on, they will be appointed as mufti, preacher, imam-hatip, Koran instructor and trustee candidate for muezzin, and they will begin their work after they complete the qualified education at the Academy of Religion.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0552par0359	Shut down the seminary. What do the seminary schools do, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0360	Their upbringing is also very important in the fight against Å and other terrorist organisations, and I would like to say that we will all take an important step together at this time. In this month, we'll be doing flyers on imam-hatip, Koran course instructor, muezzin trustee purchases. I don't explain the numbers, they'll be seen in the ad. Besides, it's the first time a female vice president has been appointed. In all the provinces, it has been decided that a mufti deputy should be appointed as a woman, and the appointments have begun, and for the first time, steps have been taken about the removal of women inspectors and muraklahs. From now on, women will become more visible in the Ministry of Religious Affairs, women's roles in women's rights and in the way that women's place and our religion are described beautifully in Islam will be increased. We believe in it, and we support it with great faith. We will continue to strengthen Religion TV, Religion Radio, and Religion Publications in the new era. I see a point here that's useful to underline. Talking about religion without knowledge of religious literature can do us all a great deal of harm.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0553par0364	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0365	According to the Civil Law, the Constitution, or any party's ideology, does not give a decree when the Ministry of Religious Affairs gives a decree. Based on what? According to the Qur'an, the circumcision, and Islamic sources, he gives a conquest.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0554par0366	One day he didn't give a fatwa about stealing, about bribery.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0367	This fetish obeys the law, it doesn't obey it, you obey it, you disobey it; it's not common, it's private, it's private, it's private, it's private, it's private. Now, they've taken divorce law and other things, and they're making fun of it; why don't you go ask the Islamic lawyers, and they'll answer you, they'll talk to you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0555par0368	Are we governed by Sharia, Mr. Secretary? You've removed the civil law? You've crossed the bank?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0369	Therefore, those who know shall speak, without knowledge of the literature, and behold, in the 107th verse of the Lord of the Koran, the Enbija chapter of the Lord of the Koran.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0556par0370	Come on, let's go!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0371	We did not send you except as a mercy to the worlds. It says, "Indeed, you are upon a high moral level," says the House of Ahzab, which says, "Indeed, there is a good example for you in the Apostle, for those who hope to meet Allah and the Last Day, and those who remember Allah." All the prophets are leaders sent as examples to all mankind, and the Koran commands us to imitate them, and all the religions command us to imitate the prophet. As we speak now, when we speak of a slander in the life of our prophet, who is the wife of the prophet, and who are we not to be slandered by slanderers? It's not wrong for him to take advantage of it while he's doing his evaluation. But you know what's wrong? From Turkish speech disorder or surveilance...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0557par0372	Mother tongue, mother tongue.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0373	Look, now we've got him trapped in here... Where have you got me? I want this religion, this prophet of religion, this book of religion...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0558par0374	Mr. Secretary, I mean, no one's gonna give you anything about demagogy!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0375	I'm one of 80 million, like you, who believes and is willing to sacrifice your life in his way. What are you going to test us for?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0559par0377	People who don't think like you live here!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0560par0378	Fetullah Gulen was a most honourable gentleman!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0379	Ahmet Hamdi Çamlı, such as Ahmet, Hamdi and Pine, what is he saying here? He says so clearly, he comes to the stand, and look, dear friends of Ahmet Hamdi Pine, our God is clear, if any other gods have God the Lord of all the worlds.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0561par0381	Mr. Bozdağ, your time is up, please complete in one minute.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0382	I'm finishing, Mayor, one sentence, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0561par0383	Finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0384	And then, behind that, he slips a tongue, and the word doesn't stop. We don't have any other gods. Where he can say, he's incomplete, and then he says, "He's our brother, he's our brother, he's our brother." Now, he's coming here and he's being twisted about it. Woe to you, woe to you, woe to you, woe to you! You seek help from it, from it, and from it.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0562par0386	Get over it, get over it!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0387	After that, Ahmet Hamdi Çamlı writes to the House, saying that he is not our god. He lacks the word not in my testimony. He brings it here, he brings it here, and he says that he will tell it here...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0563par0388	Shame!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0389	It's more than a shame.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0564par0390	But how many mistakes is that, Minister, what number of mistakes?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0391	I can't say anything, my morals won't allow me to answer that, but I don't want you to slip into this kind of narration disorder.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0564par0392	Your MPs, your mayors, the AK PARTY all say the same thing. Is that a mistake or a slip of the tongue?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0523par0393	They'd ask me in college exams, they'd ask me about narration disorders, which means we still haven't passed the university, and I'm saying that we need to work on those exams a little bit more, and I wish our budget to be a good luck charm, and I thank all my friends who criticize, and I thank them separately, and I salute all of you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0565par0395	I've made three suggestions, Mr. Secretary, about Palestine.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0566par0396	Thank you, Mr. Bozdağ. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0567par0399	Sir, you can't just sit in the pink seats and blame MIT.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0566par0400	To you, to you?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0567par0401	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0566par0402	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch. Let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0567par0406	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. No manners, no shame, 2 June 2011. You're doing the right thing. There are some people who think it's raining if you spit in their face, and that's the kind of guy that's so hot. As AKP President under the guise of your President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0566par0409	Mr. Ozkoch, please watch your language.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0567par0410	...If you insult Kemal Kilicdaroğlu like this...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0566par0411	Mr. Ozkoc, please be careful what you say, and do not use harsh and hurtful words.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0567par0412	...we'll respond to the AKP President as we should, as we should.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0568par0414	No, I don't know why they hit me. That's the President's words, that's Erdogan's words.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0567par0415	I'm calling from here to everyone...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0569par0416	Bastard!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0567par0417	Guys, what is it? What's the matter?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0569par0418	Don't be an asshole!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0567par0419	Let me answer that for a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0569par0421	Don't be an asshole!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0570par0422	What does that mean? You're welcome!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0571par0423	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0572par0424	Wait a minute, let me tell you something...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0570par0425	Speech! Speech!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0572par0426	Wait a minute, let me answer that. What's the matter? Why are you hitting me?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0570par0427	Get back in your seat! Sit down!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0572par0428	Why are you hitting me, what have I done, sit down! Sit down... sit down, sit down!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit06spe0573par0430	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0573par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission and the government are in place. Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0574par0007	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I'm Deputy Director of the Republican People's Party, I'm speaking from the stand. I'll come to the speech I made later, but that's where the text of my speech came from. I don't think that's true. In the conversation we had with Mr. President inside, we actually made very clear, very clear statements about the group's relationship with each other. In my statements, our friends accepted it, no insult. But here's what I'm saying: as President of the AKP as President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0575par0009	Look, you're saying under the kisph, the guise.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0574par0010	Excuse me. But look, it's not like that if you interfere. Then look at the vice president of the group.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0576par0011	Congressmans, let's not interfere.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0574par0012	Then look at the vice president of the group.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0577par0013	You're lying.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0578par0014	You're lying.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0579par0015	Congressmans, let's not interfere, please.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0580par0016	I'm not lying. That's what I mean by kisve. Then look at the vice president of the group. We can't run the band here because of what you're doing.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0581par0018	We're not stupid.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0580par0019	Look, you're talking to me again.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0581par0020	Who do I talk to?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0580par0021	Friends, with the President's image of the President, I have listed the insults he has insulted our president as AKP President. Mr. Secretary, you can't insult the President on the basis of the Constitution. When I say to him, "You can't insult the President."
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0581par0022	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0580par0023	Give me a break.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0582par0024	The President-General, the President-General...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0580par0025	I said, "You can't say anything immoral or ignorant." Now, to say this, friends, we're the opposition party, we don't hold back. If we're insulted, if we're insulted, if any word is said to our President, whatever you're doing for your President, we'll do five times as much for our President, okay? [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now, my friends, we're not here to beat each other, to break, to swear; I don't swear, and I don't insult, but I'm telling the truth. I'll finish by saying one more thing.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0583par0030	Mr. Ozkoch, it's over. Because of the bullying, we never extend two minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0580par0031	No teasing, just finishing up, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0583par0032	Please, complete, correct. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0584par0034	Tell him he's sorry.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0585par0035	Minister, we expect the same sensitivity from you. You're sitting in the same pink seats when you're talking about the Fetullah terrorist organization -- when we talk about the MIT, we're sitting in the pink seats, you're talking about the pink seats. (CHP rows) We sing under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but we are not the ones who feed the Fetullah terrorist organization, but you are the one who praises Professor Fetullah, and you must take responsibility for it. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0586par0038	You, you!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0587par0039	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0588par0040	Yes, Mr. Bostanci, please.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0589par0041	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0588par0042	Just a second, Mr. Kerestecioglu, and I'll give you my word. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0590par0046	Mr. President, today is the second day of budget negotiations. There was a lot of tension and electric talks. On the grounds of anger and anger, people can't understand each other, and those who talk can't express their opinion with a fundamental approach to justice and justice. In that regard, the birth of such electric environments does not benefit any of us above all. Ben, here, who has a role, who has said what, what has happened, I won't go into this negotiation, but things happened here, and people know what's going on, and they understand how these developments happen, and they write it down for themselves. But let us not forget that this House should be free from kindness, grace, and expression that the language will penetrate while carrying out its duties as the place of the people's will. We're all human beings, we can be angry, but it's especially important for the members of the group to conduct their work in a manner that is in accordance with the spirit of the House, not only with their own group, but with their opinion and the idea that they have a responsibility for the entire Parliament. Mr. Engin Ozkoc, the expression he used when he was speaking here, was understood by our group as a profile of a president who, if there was an electric environment, used by the guise of power, spoke a number of words. [[He didn't say that from CHP rows.]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Would you excuse me?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0591par0051	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0590par0052	However, it appears that in the case of the meeting we had in the background and the transcripts, the statement brought by Engin Bey. He wanted to bring a review of both the presidency and our President, who had only two duties, as well as the role of the chairman-in-chief of the EC PARTI. That's what we understood inside, Mr. Ozkoc said here as well. Critics can, of course, be done, but I think it's important to avoid: Now, it's not appropriate to bring some of the phrases, some of the statements from the past, to sort them out here and argue over them, I assure you. I'd be happy to take care of these, too. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0591par0054	Thank you. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, please, from your seat.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0592par0056	No, not at my place.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0591par0057	Wait a second... why?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0592par0058	I made it pretty clear inside, we're the ones sitting in orange seats called pink, and I wanted to say something in the first place.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0591par0059	Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0592par0063	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, now, yes, we need to lower the blood pressure, and it's the two ministers who are going to do it here first, and if they're talking about what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're capable of, they're going to have to do it in a language that embraces everyone, and they're going to have to do it without anyone else. It's like we're scared in our place that he's going to be breathless, and it's like speaking in such an angry tone has already made the atmosphere of this House nervous enough. Now, all references shown by the Minister, especially by the former Minister of Justice, belonged to one party regime and that period. We don't live in a one-party regime, it's not our longing, but it's very clear who's longing and what's wanted to live. He does not have the right to accuse others of not fighting enough. He was the one who spoke from here in the same blue suit six years ago and complimented Fetullah Gulen, saying: Now, the presidency deserves respect. That's right, indeed, the presidency deserves respect, as long as it respects its people, its parties, its citizens. Now, we don't have the authority to release the terrorists from prison about our co-Chair. The person we're talking about is a terrorist. So, what happened when we tried to sue him? He did not apply to the judicial authority, nor was the petition accepted, as he referred to the article 105, which had been accused of crimes against the president and was related to the presidency. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish with one sentence.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0593par0069	Here, please complete.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0592par0070	By Allah, we are not sufficient for you. Sometimes you are given the right to speak too much. I refuse to be an extra in this theater of justice, which was launched because of the order of the court. What happened to the case of Milahattin Demirtaş? There's been a debate about you. Now, what fair judgment are we talking about here, what justice? And what insult, what respect are we really going to talk about? The one who deserves respect is the one who knows how to show respect. Since we didn't see it from that office, and a lot of citizens didn't see it, this whole fight is going on.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0594par0072	Because you can't stomach it.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0592par0073	And President Sezer had four criminal charges in his day. Do you know how many today? Three thousand. My respects.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0595par0076	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0596par0077	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0595par0080	Members of the Parliament, the 66th Amendment of the Civil Charter of the Civil Code organises compliance with the Civil Code, the use of a clean language in the 67th Article of the General Assembly, and non-violent and hurtful words. Again, Article 65 has been prohibited from interrupting the General Assembly, dealing with the individual and interfering with the working order.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0597par0081	Sir, can you read 70?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0595par0082	I ask all of our MPs to pay attention to these sensitivities so that negotiations can be conducted healthy and productively and not cause tensions. This House has a practice, it has a law, it has a tradition that has to be established by the Civil Code, and we have to abide by those traditions. The budget talks are a form of debate, a way of discussing ideas, a way of speaking, and as of this point, I strongly urge all of you to pay attention to that. Again, according to Article 104 of the Constitution, the President is the head of the state. It represents the Republic of Turkey and the unity of the Turkish nation. Again, Turkey represents the Commander-in-Chief of the Turkish Armed Forces on behalf of the Grand National Assembly. In this case, to our president, who is the head of state and who has been single-handedly elected by 52 per cent of the nation...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0598par0085	Milahattin Demirtaş was elected by 80 per cent of the vote.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0595par0086	Please, when we use our statements, we must avoid the words that hurt our nation, free of accusation, free of slander, hurtful to him, and because he represents our people together with him.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0599par0087	For all the party heads...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0595par0088	You can very well criticize our President, but no one can put him on trial with accusations that will overcome severe criticism. Criticizing is one thing, but it's one thing to think that each of these statements has an almost criminal charge, or that it's intended to defame the public with a particular perception operation. Our people will never accept this, nor will this House. As a result, it must not be forgotten that the head of state is the President. In this capacity, he represents the Republic of Turkey and the unity of the Turkish nation, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0600par0090	Show the same sensitivity for HDP co-chairs as Deputy Speaker of Parliament.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0595par0091	Please, let's not use the words we're going to cross, but I'd like you to be more careful to use our sentences in a more reasonable way.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0600par0092	Show the same sensitivity for the Mayor of Salahattin.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0595par0093	And on this occasion, I would like to ask you all to pay attention to this sensitivity from here.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0601par0094	You too.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0600par0095	Don't insult anyone.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0595par0096	Thank you all again.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0602par0097	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0595par0098	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0602par0099	Both speakers spoke to the accused. I want to answer that.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0595par0100	Here, I'll give you two minutes...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0603par0101	I'll talk to him and he'll tell me later.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0595par0102	No, Mr. Özkan, that's not...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0603par0103	I've made a request according to 60, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0595par0104	No.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0603par0105	Why not?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0595par0106	No, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0603par0107	I'm making a request according to 60. Why not, sir?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0604par0108	He's sitting in the pink chair.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0603par0109	But he answered me, Mr. Secretary. I'll make a statement for the Minister to answer.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0605par0110	Wait a second.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0603par0111	That's not true. What does that mean? I'd like to make a statement based on 60.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0605par0112	Here you are, Mr. Bozdağ.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0606par0115	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the president is the head of the state. The Republic of Turkey represents the unity of the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation, providing implementation of the Constitution, harmonisation of state bodies. Respect for the president is the natural consequence of respect for the state, respect for the republic, respect for the nation, respect for the Constitution. When we speak to our elders, we speak with a certain language of decency, a certain morality, a certain respect from our mother and father.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0607par0117	There's no hesitation in that, Mr. Secretary. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0606par0118	We learn from our teachers, from our streets, from everywhere, we speak accordingly.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0607par0119	Let him talk.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0606par0120	But now, because the President carries both the President and the President together, that's what I do, as the General President, I don't touch the President's part, and that's not... that's not going to happen.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0607par0121	Well, does he have the right to insult you?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0606par0122	When adjectives meet in one person, you have to act on what's dominant in that capacity.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0607par0123	No, he's gonna swear at me, I'm gonna shut up.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0608par0124	Are you giving us advice, Hajji?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0606par0125	Does the President's qualifications go away when he speaks as the President? He's not getting up. And he won't get up when he's speaking as president. To him, we all need a language of respect, one.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0609par0126	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0606par0128	Two: When you look at our president's speeches, it's always about responding to attacks against him. There's no explanation for a direct attack on the individual's personality, I'd like to express it. A language that exceeds the limits of respect for the president is not on this stand, but wherever it is, at any time, it will always find its reward, and then it will find it. Everyone adjust your language accordingly. When you don't adjust, the adjusters come out.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0610par0131	What exactly do you mean?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0606par0132	But we'll adjust it, it's very important. I'm sorry, everyone will adjust.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0610par0133	Yeah, what do you say? Are you threatening us?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0606par0134	This setting is important, this setting is important. We'll adjust the literary...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0610par0135	What a tune-up! What a tune-up!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0606par0136	I'm sorry. Blasphemy is a sign of inadequacy.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0611par0137	He said the words you said, the deputy leader of the group is there. Would you accept such words to yourself?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0606par0138	We're not gonna do it, and we're not gonna let anyone do it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, there's one more thing.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0612par0141	Please complete it, complete it in a minute, let's finish it, that's enough.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0613par0142	Mr. Secretary, if you're accepting your words, thank you for everything.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0606par0143	Another thing is, every time I come to the bench about myself, they bring me a speech that I've had in Parliament in the past. That's what the terrorists are doing. They're bringing my speech in and putting it in the next day, no matter how many times I've been on it.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0614par0145	What a terrorist organization! You did it.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0613par0146	So we're just gonna shut up because they told us to?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0606par0147	Other terrorist organizations are also putting up the fight against the AK PARTY. Yeah, it was a 2011 speech. Was there a declaration of the Fetullahist terrorist group at the time, or was it said that we didn't? That's one.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0614par0148	You didn't have MGK in front of you then! There was a population comparison!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0615par0149	Minister, there was, but you didn't know. There was, there was. It was a terrorist organization at the time.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0606par0150	Two: We are the government and we are the ones who are fighting after the terrorist organization's quality has been established.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0616par0151	Did the terrorists make you talk? Who made you talk then? Then who made you talk? The terrorists?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0615par0152	That's when they committed a crime.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0617par0153	You all worked for him, you were all there.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0618par0154	If there are 10 politicians in Turkey, who are leading the fetullahist terrorist organization and are fighting all of its collars, then one of them is your brother, I'll stress that.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0619par0155	You go to 1940, you go to 1938, you go everywhere.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0618par0156	It will not weaken this struggle if you say a word spoken in the past to cloud this struggle today. We will fight to the end, but after becoming a terrorist organization, you are the terrorist organizations who walk arm in arm, hand in hand in hand in everything. (x)
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0620par0159	You've been with the terrorist organization since the beginning.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0621par0160	Come on, you liar! Go, go, go, go, go, go,
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0618par0161	December 17th-25th, MIT trucks, closing cases, you're all together.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0622par0162	Thank you, Mr. Bozdağ.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0623par0163	You walked together, then!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0624par0164	President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0625par0165	You're on a controlled coup, you're on the Zarrab case. You're just saying what he's saying.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0626par0166	Who made you say them, who? Did they put a gun to your forehead?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0627par0167	Yeah, don't provoke people.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0625par0168	You're walking in the wheel of the terrorist organization, bringing in things spoken of ten years ago, after they've come out.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0628par0169	You aided and abetted!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0629par0170	You were walking together, together!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0630par0171	Thank you, Mr. Bozdağ, your time is up, please.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0631par0172	Now, the terrorist organization... what are you saying now, what am I saying?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0630par0173	Thank you, Mr. Bozdağ.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0632par0174	You're God!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0633par0175	You've caused trouble, you've caused trouble! Remember that.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0634par0176	You created it, you created it! We ran him over, we smashed his head!
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0635par0177	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0636par0178	Wait a second... Come in, Mr. Ozkoç, I'm listening.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0637par0180	Mr. President, I certainly don't want any promises, because we're doing what we promised you inside.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0636par0181	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0637par0182	But who's turning this place on right now? Who's threatening this place? Who teaches ethics? I don't want anyone to deny the president's promise yesterday that I'd look good here and give us a moral lesson today, no one.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0636par0184	Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0638par0185	Mr. President, actually the Fetullahists bring up the talks I've had before.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0639par0186	It didn't open.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0638par0187	Wait a minute, guys.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0640par0188	Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0638par0189	Wait a minute, don't say Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0640par0190	Why? You don't mind me saying, "Mr."
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0638par0191	No, I don't mean anything like that. I just want to say that I'm not comfortable with your interference. I'm one of the people here who's always trying to speak with the most courtesy, but it's a clear taunt. But without teasing...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0640par0193	What promise?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0638par0194	I don't know how many years ago they're talking about it, and it's the Fetullahians who are saying it. But if that's not what he meant, I don't know.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0641par0195	I didn't mean you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0638par0196	I don't want to talk about bullying, for the record: Mr. Secretary has threatened the entire Assembly, you've seen it, you'll see it from now on. And the real turn-on is that the Minister is doing it, as I said in the beginning, and he's doing it all the time. We're not going to be a tool for this, really, I'm not going to go and say it, but for the record I'm saying this: And the congregation of Fetullah Gülen, with its safety, were all inhabited, and said: Watch out, and watch out. I'd like to point that out.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0642par0197	It's on the record, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. You?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0643par0199	Mr. President, I just gave a speech. My speech time is seven minutes. Our Minister gave a thirteen-minute reply to that speech department. I'd like to present a momentary complementary piece of information about this response, which you won't allow.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0644par0200	It does, it does.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0643par0201	If you don't get a second's worth of explaining to the members of the group, who are speaking budgetally to a member of parliament at the Turkish Grand National Assembly, then it's important to bring it up. Because look, on this side of Parliament...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0645par0202	Now, wait a second. Now that you've requested so much, you're going to say something very important, all right, all right, all right, but I'll tell you this, in the beginning, I've said that there's a tradition of budget negotiations...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0643par0204	Yes, I know that tradition very well, I was a reporter for Parliament.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0645par0205	Well, you know the tradition, then you shouldn't ask for your place, that's what I'm trying to say.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0643par0206	Well, what should I do, sir?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0645par0207	So after every conversation, I'm going to have to make a promise based on 60. I'm going to make a request for a commitment. There wouldn't be a basis for budget negotiations.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0643par0208	Sir, you set up an electronic system. From where I'm sitting, as it appears in front of you...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0645par0209	I can't quite see them because they're getting into a question-answer. There are questions at the moment. In a few minutes, the question is 60 seconds.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0643par0210	No, I want to say something for 60 seconds.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0645par0211	Please come in.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0646par0212	It was already over. It's been three minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0647par0213	We were able to get a minute in three minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0648par0214	Mr. President, if you'd given it to me, we wouldn't have had so much discussion.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0649par0215	Mr. President, you have a habit of not using time efficiently.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0650par0216	Guys, we're trying to settle down, so it's okay to give it a minute, give it two minutes. We're justly and equally trying to apply the Civil Code. Please... Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0651par0220	Thank you. Mr. President, thank you so much for your understanding. And I have no objection to most of his response to the Minister. Mr. Minister, you don't have to insult people in the Turkish Grand National Assembly as MPs to tell them that the National Intelligence Service employees are working under difficult conditions. Half of this Parliament comes from prisons, torture houses. Half of this Parliament is made up of people on that side or on this side who have politics on their heads. We're as patriotic as the National Intelligence Agency's employees, and we're trying to do something for Turkey as much as they are. They sit in their pink seats in Yenimahalle, in their blue seats, in their green seats, but they make various decisions about the fate of the nation. You have done a beautiful thing as a Justice and Development Party Group in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... You've set up an inspection board for the MIT. Start this up, that's all we're saying. The MITists are bad. We don't say that. In order to praise the members of the MIT, you do not need to say, "They are evil."
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0652par0225	Thank you. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2018 2) The President's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Court's Central Management Final Account for 2016 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Constitutional Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2016 1) Supreme Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Prime Ministership 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2018 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2016 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The National Management Budget of 2018 2) The Editor-in-Chief for Religious Affairs 2016 Central Management Final Account E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Final Account for 2016 The second and final statement for the individuals now belongs to İstanbul MP Baris Ykdyat. Here you are, my friend. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0653par0276	Good evening. Mr. Bozdağ just said they don't know that the Fetullah Gulen community is a terrorist organization. However, in the headline of the daily Cumhuriyet in 2002 -- which is the period when the AKP came to power -- the laughing group of terrorists -- is the subject of the dispute of the Adana Chief Public Prosecutor's Office. If Mr. Bozdağ had wanted to know, he would have known that there was also a terrorist organization. (HPP) Well, let's say you don't believe in the Republic, what shall we say to the daily Akit? The AK PARTY saved the laughing one. The current group's deputy president, he says, "We saved it." Who? The service movement you loved, which the Republican newspaper pointed out as a terrorist organization in 2002. You knew, you planted it inside the government on purpose, you cooperated, you didn't leak it, you planted it.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0654par0278	Aiding.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0653par0279	You're making the same mistakes today. We're cleaning the city. You're now opening the schools of the state, the Ministry of National Education to new congregations, new sects, and you're actually throwing the seeds of the new ones with your own hands. Look what the Gardenieves Department of National Education are doing. He's forced students to pray under the supervision of a cult, friends, by force. The director of Çakaloğlu Anadolu High School is a member of a congregation and is now urging students to have a religious conversation. It's not enough, we're coming down immediately; the Maltepe National Education Directorate has been handed over to a congregation, has been handed over to a cult, and advises the students: "Your teachers will come home, they will give you religious talks. These are exactly the methods of the organization. In the past, the congregations that you now place inside the state, the cults do the same things that the same person does, and he goes down that path, and tomorrow we are deceived again, deceived, we were deceived, we did not know. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Of course, all of this -- Mr. Metin Ashunk is here -- is religion to students, faith to AKP people, han bath to the AKP people. Again, you launched a 200 trillion-dollar runt project in Istanbul. Even though 18,000 cabbies object, and this matter, despite the fact that the taxi is now in court, what did you do? With a project called the iTaxi, you create a 200 million-dollar source and transfer it to the son of AKP's vice president in charge of local governments. Mr. Metin Ashünk went to İstanbul, spoke to the taxi drivers, and said, "I am against this project, this project must not be implemented." It was as if, contrary to what Metin Ashkunk said, two days later, he began the ITaxi Project. Why? Because there's a 200 million-dollar rant here, and where will $20 million -- 20 trillion -- be transferred every year? Through the iTaki, AKP's former Vice President in charge of local governments, Hüseyin Godverdit, the company of his son's Full Software. I mean, religion for the poor, religion for the students, faith for the AKP's subsidiary companies. [[Applause from CHP rows]] So, now, what's this all about? The AKP's government is not actually a budget for the benefit of the public in the budget talks here, but a budget for their own benefit. We know how the Speaker uses the budget, and we see the waste of the books brought before us. Besides, I'd like you to object to the car the Speaker bought for 5 million TL. For God's sake, does this House have money to pay a Mercedes for $5 million? How long will you live from the back of this poor people?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0655par0286	Did you pay the bill?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0653par0287	How long are you going to stand on these people's backs? [[Applause from CHP rows]] So we're saying that this budget is not in the public interest. And don't try to fool anyone with 11 percent growth lies.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0655par0290	Did you pay the bill, the phone bill?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0653par0291	What kind of growth is this that the number of unemployed is increasing? What kind of growth is this that thousands of people call us every day saying, "I can't find work, I can't bring bread to my house, I'm desperate, I'm miserable."
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0656par0292	What about the phone bills?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0653par0293	If there were 11 percent growth, unemployment would be reduced, and bosses would be looking for qualified employees. So I'd like to say once again that this budget is not in the public interest. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0657par0297	What about the phone bill, the phone?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0658par0298	Thank you, Mr. Yfriend. Since I represent the Speaker of Parliament, we've already briefed you on your testimony regarding the Parliament Speaker's vehicle, and I'd like to inform you once again. The government vehicle, which has been used for four years by the Turkish Grand National Assembly, was often malfunctioning and was on its way, creating a large amount of maintenance costs. A new vehicle has been assigned by the Prime Minister's office as a replacement for this vehicle, which has previously been assigned and has completed its economic lifespan. Therefore, there was no new vehicle purchase by the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and no expense was made regarding the vehicle. Again, there's no such setup because the vehicle was alleged to have had an ambulance set up earlier, and there's no evidence of a high amount of money being spent on it. Mr. Yaskım, this has already been expressed by Mr. President, as has been made public by the press. Now, I felt the need to make these statements on your statements. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2018 2) The President's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Court's Central Management Final Account for 2016 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Constitutional Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2016 1) Supreme Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Prime Ministership 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2018 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2016 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The National Management Budget of 2018 2) The Editor-in-Chief for Religious Affairs 2016 Central Management Final Account E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Final Account for 2016 Now, members of lawmakers, we move on to the question-answer process in 20 minutes. The first ten minutes of these 20 minutes will be left as a question, and I'll give the remaining ten minutes time to the concerned ministers for the answer and the Deputy Speaker of Parliament. Mr. Engin, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0659par0353	Thank you, Mr. President. In 2017, the budget for the presidency was raised to 648m 488,000 TL. The budget, which we discussed today for 2018, would like to allocate $845m,365,000 to the presidency. So presidential spending has increased by 30 per cent compared to last year, 4.384 per cent compared to 2002. As for our citizens, you raise them by increase, you tax them on taxes, you expect the minimum wagers to sacrifice them, but when it comes to the palace, you say, "There is no saving dignity." Now, I ask the ministers: Do you plan to raise the minimum wage, pensioners, civil servants, workers' salaries, as you did in the presidential budget, by 30 per cent last year?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0660par0356	Mr. Torun, instead of Mr. Yimim, here you are.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0661par0357	Thank you, Mr. President. The AKP's government is experiencing a major dissolution. One of the main reasons for this resolution is that AKP's understanding of municipalism has failed. As a matter of fact, the President pressured and forced his own mayors to resign, while the mayors publicly expressed pressure and threat. Not only that, the president told the CHP municipalities that it would be their turn, so do as I do, or you will suffer the consequences. The Mayor of Ataşehir has been cleared of all judicial proceedings and has been released without any documents. It seems the President has been misinformed. Was the order given by the President to suspend the Ataşehir Mayor? What CHP mayors are next? How many AKP-based municipalities are under investigation? Or are these investigations only for CHP municipalities? In addition, how many advisors are there at the Presidential Palace? How much is the monthly salary of these consultants? Are these counselors entitled to housing allowance other than monthly fees? Have these consultants been assigned a vehicle? My next question is to the Speaker. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Kahraman, how much service has been made for the attorney service during the time of the hero, and how much have these service purchases been paid? What cases do the lawyers who serve under these service purchases pursue?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0662par0363	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0663par0364	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking Prime Minister Bünlı Yıldırım (TRT) on TRT screens on December 8, 2017 in the 28th episode of "Payetaht" (Payetaht), it has been implied that the founders of the republic and the founders of the republic have destroyed the Ottoman State and that the media has also covered the news. In a reciprocal talk on the series, it was implied that the people who destroyed the Ottoman State were the ones who founded Ataturk and the Republic of Turkey. According to this, the Ottomans will destroy their own children for us. Do you intend to start a legal procedure for the producer of this series in the chapter in which the dialogue is passed? Is Mustafa Armazan, who is known as the enemy of Ataturk, and who insults the historical adviser of the show, which is also mentioned in the news? How is it indifferent to public enmity with Ataturk in the state's channel? Will you have other sanctions for the show in question?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0662par0366	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0664par0367	Mr. President, thank you. Compared to the previous presidents, how much has the budget increased during the presidency of AKP President Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan? What number of written question motions, which have been extradited by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, have not been answered, and how many are related to the presidency? Also, did you put these papers in here to throw them out on our table, or do we have to deal with them in this day and age? Wouldn't it be better if you gave us a flash drive instead? What is the loss of the children of Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım's investments in Malta? What is the reason why the MIT is committed to the presidency? How many of our citizens from AFAD have received help this year, what is the total application, and what is the distribution of it according to your help? Is it true that applications to Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Agency were not accepted during the State of Emergency?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0665par0375	Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0666par0376	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking Mr. Bekir Bozdağ. We see a huge budget of 7 billion 774 million, 183,000 liras split in his speech on the chairmanship of Religious Affairs. I ask Mr. Bozdağ here: He has just said the verses and verses of the Qur'an, and I remind him of the 25th and 26th verses of the Fecr Surah. How are you going to get away with eating the rights of millions of Flames living in this country? Do you intend to implement the decision that the houses of worship will be recognized by the ECHM? Do you plan to cut in on this budget to the Alevis? Again, I thank Mr. Recep Akdağ. In his speech earlier, we did what was not done in a hundred years. I agree with his word. For the first time in a hundred years, this Veteran Assembly has been bombed by you. And I thank you for your confession, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0667par0379	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0668par0380	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey's third quarter growth figure was announced at 11.1 per cent. We also know that the weight in this growth is consumption and construction. We can compare this to an obese person who's fattened and fattened with junk food. However, we know that the growth under inflation is reflected in the farmer, the officer, the worker, in short, the ring shrinking. You raised everything you could think of; the dollar, the euro flew away; the stock market shook like a cradle. We are aware that the changes in numbers on paper will not benefit our country in the long run. Do not compare the growth of accounts in Man Island with the growth of our country. No, we're growing up, we're growing up. If you say so, make the minimum price $2,000 so that our people can actually feel this growth. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm asking Mr. Secretary, are you going to make the minimum wage of $2,000?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0669par0385	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0670par0386	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the 26th one you handed out to us today. I present to you the pages of the First Time Work Report: Page 41, 43, 47, 48, 52, 55, 162, 115, 181, 211, 212, 270. In 13 places in total, you've taken half the poster of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, half of which you didn't show or withdraw. When will you give up this love for Ataturk, which is present these days... that you have just sent to us... that you still have not given up the anti-Ataturkism, that you are the enemy of Ataturk? Isn't that disrespectful to the founding parliament, this Parliament founded by Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk? There's no written question in this study report, no verbal question motion; there's only the president's ad here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So is this a place of advertising or a place of work? So you show a law proposal, you show a written question motion, you show a verbal question motion, you show a research motion. Shame on them, aren't they? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0671par0391	I guess they're in there, too.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0670par0392	I don't have any, and if I see one, I'll resign. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0671par0393	Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0672par0394	Mr. Secretary, it has been decided that the issue of the staff for the subcontractors, which we insist on as the National Movement Party, all parties are in their election declarations, is finally on the agenda of the Assembly. It is part of the press that general and co-organisation budgets and subcontractors in municipal and municipal private administrations will be given staff and will not be given to employees in the OSCE. The right and justice principles do not apply to the rights and the rights of the people to be deprived of employees in the OSCE for the hiring of subcontractors, which are declared to be 900,000. If 900,000 workers are to be given a staff, 40,000 people can be given a staff, and our government is great. He expects you not to deprive the subcontractors of this right, not to allow the law to be born dead, not to be separated from justice and justice in the state. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0671par0396	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0673par0397	Thank you, Mr. President. On July 20, 2016, NGOs and academics, teachers, civil servants, were suspended from their jobs without grounds. The Constitutional Court and the State of Emergency Review Commission, established to reduce applications to the ECHR, has been cited as the only contact of more than 150,000 citizens, but despite the 11 months that have passed over the establishment of the State of Emergency Review Commission, no application has yet been completed. Naturally, the economic, social and psychological victims of our citizens, families, are increasing day by day. In this regard, when will the State of Emergency first be removed? When will the State of Emergency Review Commission announce the results of the application? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0674par0400	Mr. Erdogan, you have 20 seconds. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0675par0402	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bozdağ stated there were 10,000 imam deficits in the Plan and Budget Commission. What's the plan to close this gap? Do you intend to evaluate our 4,995 imams, which will be employed by the İSKUR channel and will expire this month? Again, has the Religion learned enough from July 15th? If he's learned a lesson, in the past year and a half, why haven't we ever heard anything about new parallel structures in any sermons or in the middle of the world? Again, regarding the growth of 11 per cent, our fixed-income citizens, pensioners, widows and orphans, ask our officers: "When will this 11 per cent reach us, and when will we get our share? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0676par0407	Thank you. Mr. Akçay, you have a question.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0677par0409	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Parliamentary Presidency is that staff currently operate in areas such as business, production and support services in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are working in subsidiary services, general administration services and 4/C status, but by law, these personnel must be transferred to the technical services class under administrative procedure. According to Law 3795, those who graduated from vocational and technical institutes were named technicians, and many institutions in the public area are considered staff technicians in the same status and field of duty and are assigned to the technical services class, and those who served in our parliament failed to win this title and were not assigned to this class. Is the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey doing a study for the removal of the victims of those personnel? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0678par0412	Thank you. Now, to answer the questions, I give the first word to our Speaker of Parliament, Mr. Ayşe Nur Erçaklılı. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0679par0415	Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening to my fellow lawmakers. First, I'd like to answer the question of Mr. Akin. Mr. Akın asked me a question about the question motions, asked for detailed information on the extradition proceedings. Mr. Akın, Article 96 of the Interior Charter contains elements that should be submitted in the question motions. In Article 97, there are issues that will not be addressed in the question motions. Again, it has been ruled that non-registered question motions will be subject to extradition by the Parliamentary Presidency. On the other hand, under Article 67 of the Civil Code, it has been decided that rude and hurtful statements could be removed from the text and that the process could be carried out by the President. Again, there will be no questions asked about the use of judicial authority in Article 138 of the Constitution. The Constitution and the regulations of the Civil Code, which are remembered by the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, are being processed by which terms of extradition are stated in the question motions. However, there is no statistics, no reports, of the question motions returned to him and his subject. Maybe it's a flaw, it can be completed from now on, such a statistic can be provided. As for the question of Mr. Tanal, Mr. Tanal has presented a review of the brochure published by the Speaker of Parliament. During the talks, other fellow lawmakers presented their criticisms in the same way. During budget talks, it is customary to publish and distribute pamphlets about the activities of institutions, as has the Parliamentary presidency, but in the developing technological age, it should be considered and taken into account that it can be done in other ways. But in this brochure you mentioned, you said that there was no information given, but if you'll notice, there's something about legislation and control activities...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0680par0421	Why were the Ataturk posters cut? Is that a coincidence, 13 of them?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0679par0422	...all information is in that brochure. There may be criticisms about this pamphlet, it can be corrected, but I just told you, the age of communication has evolved...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0681par0423	Too bad, it's pollution.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0679par0424	...other methods can be used, but don't you think they're ashamed? I don't know how to describe it to you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0682par0425	13 posters of Ataturk, one may be a coincidence, especially...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0679par0426	If you'll excuse me, our time is limited; I have three minutes, I have to answer.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0682par0427	We'll give it time, we'll give it time, talk for an hour, what's it gonna be?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0683par0428	The time is limited, and we will promise both of our Vice Prime Ministers.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0679par0429	They also said that the photos of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk were deliberately printed in this brochure. Look, there's a photo of Mr. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk on the front page of that brochure.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0684par0430	Shouldn't that be? He founded the coven.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0679par0431	I'm asking you not to look for intent in half a print.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0685par0432	There could be one coincidence, 13 masters, 13 of them.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0679par0433	Mr. Tanal, excuse me. A person's appreciation for the principles and visions of Mustafa Kemal does not belong to another person.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0686par0434	Don't cut his pictures.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0679par0435	We are here in the Parliament, established by Mustafa Kemal and his friends, and are in the unconditional and unconditional nation under the signature of Kemal Ataturk, and we are aware of it. Please, I beg you, I ask all of us, let's not define the use of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk as a political tool, as a method; let's keep his principles, his vision. I guess that's what I'm saying when we're here.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0687par0436	That's the point.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0679par0437	And I'd like to emphasize once again that no one should appreciate that. Mr. Akçay, the answer I can give you is that those who graduate from vocational and technical education institutions are also named technicians, high-schoolers and two-year high-tech teachers, under the 3rd article of Law number 3795. According to this clause of the law, the technical secondary education providers should be given the title of technicians and technical students... the law does not give them the right to be recruited in this manner... but the technicians must succeed by entering the Ascension and Subsection Exam, according to our agency law. I wish that friends in this title would take this test and win this title. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0688par0440	Thank you. Mr. Akdağ, let's solve it in a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0689par0443	Let me make this very brief. In 2017, 3,958 of our citizens received the rights of the AFAD (AFAD), in which we received $86,300,000. In addition, the funds paid to municipalities under Law 4123 were paid to $2 billion,637m,918 thousand, including emergency assistance and, by the way, for the Syrians. Let's give the charter to our esteemed MPs in writing. In this 11.1 percent growth issue, we're actually asking opposition lawmakers, let's be proud of it, friends. So you can criticize the other side of it, but 11.1 percent growth is a growth that brings us to number one in the world today.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0690par0447	What's the consumption?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0689par0448	See, our exports, compared to the months, have increased by 15 per cent compared to last year's October, 14 per cent compared to last year's November. Well, thank God, that's even better.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0691par0449	How much is open? Import, export...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0689par0450	As for minimum wage, our AK PARTY governments are governments that bring minimum wage of $1,404. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0692par0452	That's what we told you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0693par0453	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Bozdağ, please.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0694par0455	Mr. President, dear friends, our friends have asked us the reason for the arrangement to connect the presidential presidency with the MIT. Of course, the MIT belonged to the Prime Minister and was responsible to the Prime Minister. He was also transmitting information to the President, to the Chief of Staff, to the Prime Minister, to the relevant and necessary areas, delivering information, working closely with them. Of course, the commitment has been altered, the president has been made, the responsibility has been changed, but the other parts continue exactly the same. Of course, the presidency has made a major constitutional amendment to the government's system to cross over to Turkey, and the step has been taken in this framework, in harmony, but in 2019, you know, it will go into full force, but there is no constitutional obstacle to making this arrangement. At the moment, such a commitment can be made to the presidency. There is no contrary to the Constitution here. Second, some of our friends have assessed the increase in the budget of the presidency. Of course, the president's position as head of the presidency is crucial to the continued duties of our nation in accordance with the representation of our state. We're showing a sensitivity. Besides, there's construction going on there. Now that the library is being built, there are other productions going on. There's an increase in this frame. When you look at other budget pencils, we see that there's a proportional increase here, so there's no extra increase, there's been an increase in demand. As for the budget of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, of course, the Ministry of Religious Affairs, its budget is spoken every semester, the numbers are huge...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0695par0459	Thank you. You answer the rest in writing. Congressmans, this concludes the first round of talks. Now, I'm going to have you read separately and vote on the parting of the budgets in the first round, respectively. I submit to your votes that the president's budget of 2018 will be transferred to the chapters of the president's budget: Those who don't agree... Sustained. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2018 01 General Public Service 845.365,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 845.365,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Congressmans, there's a motion now, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the extension of the presidential budget (E) framework (I), which is part of the general budget of the Central Management Budget Bill 2018, be removed from the draft text. Zechariah Maziel Ancient Don't Stop Moses Pine Ali Şeker Mahmoud Tanal Tulip Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0696par0480	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0695par0481	Government?
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0697par0482	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0695par0483	Members of parliament, the amendment proposals of Article 162, which regulates the Constitution's budget talks, are also read and voted on without discussion. I am reading the grounds for the motion. The presidency does not have the privilege of drafting and implementing the budget, except in accordance with the regulation of Article 107 of the Constitution. There are no special arrangements for drafting, implementing, and auditing its budget. In a way that is incompatible with the principles of fiscal transparency and accountability, some practices that have excluded the presidential budget from the system have recently been carried out by provisions in the institution's budget (E) frameworks, which constitute a violation of the public financial management and control system. Under Article 12 of Law No. 5018, which regulates the budget preparation of institutions, implementation and control, the presidential budget is listed as part of the overall budget. In this regard, the presidency is the public administration under the central administration of Law No. 5018 (I). Financial management and control of the institution's assigned resources are subject to Law No. 5018, the purchases of goods and services and the production of productions are subject to Law 4734. Therefore, he needs to use the budget-substantiated resources within public spending law and give his account to the TBMM. The basis for the use of some funds and expenditures (E) has been shown on the ruler's ruler's ruler's table (E). As a matter of fact, the 2018 Central Management Budget Law bill, which includes the use of some funds and the basis for expenditures, consists of 85 articles. Even in recognition of the existence of an obligation to implement the presidential budget, these regulations must be included in the framework of the Central Management Budget Law for 2018. The rule of law in Article 2 of the Constitution is a state that is in accordance with the law, based on human rights, upholds and strengthens these rights and freedoms, maintains a fair legal order in all areas, and maintains it by developing it, prevents it from being in violation of the Constitution and from taking over all state bodies, which considers the law to be subject to the rule of law and rule of law and is open to judicial control. Laws have general, objective, fair rules and are required to observe the standards of rights as a state of law. While all public administrations meet their needs in accordance with the Law provisions of 4734, the construction and purchase of goods and goods to be used in the presidential office of the President's E cetve added to the presidential budget, such as in Article 7/5, and the purchase of goods and materials to be used in their homes, rentals and other services and other services, and the hiring of the office staff catering to its purchases of property and property, as well as in the presidential budget of the presidential estate, as well as in accordance with the nature value of presidential property, maintenance and maintenance and maintenance and repairs, are not required to be allowed to be granted, without any other public administration, without guarantees, without the right to be granted, and to be able to negotiate the rights of the state, with the rights and the rights of the rights to be granted, with the rights of the rights to be granted, and the rights of the rights of the country, and the rights of the right to be granted by the country. It is proposed that special regulations for the use of funds assigned to the Covenant (E) of the Central Management Budget Act of 2018 are adopted because the Constitution does not comply with the rules of Articles 2, 7, 87, 88 and 161. I submit to you the motion of Zechariah Mazel and his friends, whom I have made to read his reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. Thus, parts of the central management budget of the presidency were adopted in 2018. I submit to your votes that the president's central management account of 2016 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The President's Central Management Final Account for 2016 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance is 1,345,099,900,00 Budget Expenses 1,292.555-356,81 Cancelled Fund 52,544,543,19 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The presidency was adopted into parts of the central management account in 2016. I submit to your votes that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will take part in the central management budget of 2018: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 02) THE GREAT MILITARY OF TURKEY 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 1,255,074,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Services 50,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 1,255,124,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey was adopted in 2018 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will take part in the central management account of 2016: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 895,045,869,24 Budget Expenses 825,566,400,10 Cancelled Grant 65,860,043,74 Transferred to the Next Year 3.619,425,40 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey was adopted into parts of its final account of central management in 2016. Chairman of the Court, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2018... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Chairman of the Court 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 28.111,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 50,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 243,450,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 5,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 276,701.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the Court was adopted in 2018, part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Court's presidency of 2016 be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Chief Justice of the Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2016 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 225,656,500,00 Budget Expenses 203,645,740,43 Canceled Fund 22.010.759.57 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Court of Justice of 2016 has been adopted into parts of the fixed account of the central administration. I submit to your votes that the President of the Constitutional Court shall take part in the central management budget of 2018: those who agree... those who do not... are accepted. 1) President of the Constitutional Court 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 12.048,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 56,400,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 68.448,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the Constitutional Court was adopted in 2018, part of the central management budget. President of the Constitutional Court of 2016, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration of 2016 be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Constitutional Court Presidency 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 54,940,500,00 Budget Expenses 38,604.944.75 Canceled Fund 16.335.555.25 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Constitutional Court's Presidency of 2016 has been adopted into parts of the central administration's final account. I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2018 will be passed by those who don't accept... those who don't. 1) Supreme Court 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 43,964,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 416,33,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 150,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 460.437,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Supreme Court adopted parts of the central management budget in 2018. I submit to your votes that the central administration account of 2016 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2016 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 209,660,000.00 Budget Expenses 200.351.693.07 Canceled allowance 9.308.306.93 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Supreme Court has been adopted into parts of the central administration's final account in 2016. I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2018 will be transferred to the central management budget for those who do not accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 19,586,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 129,386,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 128,972,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. In 2018, the district was adopted as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2016 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2016 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 134.593,000.00 Budget Expenses 132.307.230,47 Canceled Fund 2,285,769,53 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Court of Prosecutors' Office of the Central Government of 2016 has been adopted into parts of its final account. I submit to your votes that the Prime Minister's 2018 will take part in the central management budget: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 1,275,261.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 2.773,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 7.329000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 56,369.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 150,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 811.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 118,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 1,610,543.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Prime Minister's 2018 was adopted as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the prime minister's central administration account of 2016 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Prime Ministership 2016 Central Management Terminate Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance is 2,515.895.074.66 Budget Expenses 2,438.101.819.88 Canceled allowance 77,793,254,78 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The prime minister's central administration account of 2016 has been approved. I submit to your votes that the Central Management budget of 2018 will be transferred to the central management budgets of the Public Control Agency: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 40.60) PRODUCTION OF CAMU EXPERIENCE 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2018 03 Public Order and Security Services 22.903,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 22.903,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 22,703,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 200,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 22.903,000 The Central Management budget of 2018 was adopted by the Public Control Agency. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of 2016 be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2016 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 19,288,000,00 Budget Expenses 16,582,783,11 Canceled Fund 2,705,216,89 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): The overall total is 19,288,000,00 Collection 19,458,532,88 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Central Administration account of 2016 has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the National Intelligence Agency's Investigative Service shall take part in the central management budget of 2018: Those who don't... Sustained. 07.75) THE MILITARY PROPOSITION OF RESPONSIBILITY 1) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2018 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.335.535,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 2,335.535,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2018. Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Service, I submit to your votes that the central administrative account of 2016 be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance is 1,747,555,092,53 Budget Expenses 1,492.564.115.43 Canceled Grant 254.990.977.10 Transferred to the following year 250.404.930.03 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Service has been accepted as part of the central management account in 2016. Secretary General of the National Security Board, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2018 will be transferred to its sectors: Those who don't... Sustained. 07.76) GENIAL SECURITY PRODUCTION OF THE MILK 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 29.158,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 29.158,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Secretary General of the National Security Board was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2018. The Secretary General of the National Security Board for 2016, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2016 Central Management Terms I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: Total allowance 25.975,000.00 Budget Expenses 24,146,047,33 Canceled Fund 1.828.952.67 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 904.204.06 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Secretary General of the National Security Board has been accepted as part of the central management account in 2016. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Management budget of 2018 will be transferred to the President of Religious Affairs: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 07.86) THE PRESIDENT OF DISCOVERY 1) The National Management Budget of 2018 01 General Public Service 54,229000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 140,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 10.322,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 1,033,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 7,707,270,70.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 1,189,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 7.774.183,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chapter of the central management budget of 2018 was adopted. I'd like to submit to your votes that the President of Religious Affairs, the central management account of 2016, will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Editor-in-Chief for Religious Affairs 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 6.451.473.935.49 Budget Expenses 6.517.434.932.73 Emancipation Expenses 89,924,770,54 Canceled Fund 23.960.227.35 Payment for the Next Year 5.052,786,86 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The chapter of the central management account of 2016 has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the President of Disaster and Emergency Management shall take part in the central management budget of 2018: Those who don't... Sustained. 07.96) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 11.697,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 127,368,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5,643,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 32.544,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 3,624,000 ' All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 2.084.988,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 2,265,864,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I believe the Minister has a request to make amends. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0698par0767	Mr. President, when I respond to bullying during the previous debates, we will fight to the end, but after becoming a terrorist organization, you are the terrorist organizations that walk arm in arm, hand in hand, in everything. There is a statement. Now, I certainly don't mean that by referring to our MPs or CHP, you are terror organizations. I don't mean that, I can't even think about that. But when you look at the coming of the word, you're the one walking arm in arm, hand in hand. That's what I mean, terrorist organizations certainly don't think about the thing. I'm correcting it, and I'd like to put it on the record as a correction.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0695par0768	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0699par0769	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0695par0770	Mr. Ozkoch, you're on the record.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0699par0771	Just for the record. It's good to see that Mr. Minister has made his mistake, but now Turkey knows how much he has arm and arm in arm in this matter. That's why we don't agree to that either. For your information.
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0700par0773	He's describing himself, Mr. President, describing himself. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2018 2) The President's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Court's Central Management Final Account for 2016 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Constitutional Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2016 1) Supreme Court's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Prime Ministership 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2018 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2016 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2016 Central Management Terms 1) The National Management Budget of 2018 2) The Editor-in-Chief for Religious Affairs 2016 Central Management Final Account E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Final Account for 2016
tbmm-2017-12-12sit07spe0701par0820	I would like to submit to your votes that the President of the Disaster and Emergency Management Board of the Central Government of 2016 be transferred to the final accounts of its final account: those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Budget I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: Total allowance 3.688.617.614.20 Budget Expenses 3,443,904.222,13 Funds Expenses 4,281,43 Canceled Fund 244,717,673,50 Transferred to the Next Year 3.179.814.20 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The head of the disaster and emergency administration of 2016 was adopted as part of the final account of the central administration. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Foundation for Human Rights and Equality shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2018: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.61) THE RIGHTS AND ACTIVITY OF TURKEY 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 7.824,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 230,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. GENEL TOPLAM 8.054,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 8,034,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 20,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 8.054,000 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Association adopted parts of the central management budget in 2018. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Foundation for Human Rights and Equality shall take part in the final account of the central administration of 2016: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Final Account for 2016 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 5.957,000.00 Budget Expenses 2.350.154.94 Cancelled Grant 3.606,845,06 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 5.957,000.00 Collection 1.580.052.06 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Association has been adopted into parts of its final account of central management in 2016. Members of parliament, the budgets and precise accounts of the companies involved in the first round have been approved. We pray that he be blessed, and we pray that he be blessed. The first round of talks is complete. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Wednesday (December 13th, 2017) to discuss the budgets and precise accounts of the organisations, respectively. He closes the gathering at 00, thank you for all your hard work and hard work, and I bid you all good night.
