tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0002par0002	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0001par0003	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0002par0004	I have an off-the-book request.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0001par0005	We're not making any off-the-book promises, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0002par0006	I demand it, sir, if that's all right.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0001par0007	I do not approve of your request, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0002par0008	In what way, sir?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0001par0009	In the previous unification, there was also a discussion of procedure in the 53rd merger dated January 9, 2017, which I believe was the request of Mr. Altay/ and we agreed on this procedure debate by the General Assembly's decision. We also made a General Assembly decision that the non-responsibility of promises would not be granted except on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, when the Parliament would have normal, routine working days. So I didn't make any off-the-tops promises today.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, we will act according to the Civil Code. There is no such decree in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0001par0011	Open the Civil Charter, look. Where is there no judgment?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0002par0012	I mean, there's no such thing as working days.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0001par0013	It's in the Deputy Speaker's discretion, isn't it? That's how I appreciate it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0002par0014	Okay, where does it say that?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0001par0015	Plus, however, a General Assembly decision was made in the debate on the procedure. So we didn't promise anything off the agenda today. It's a matter in accordance with both the Civil Code and the General Assembly's decision and the rules I'm doing.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0002par0016	Now, shall we discuss this in a manner of speaking, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0001par0017	And you can't have a formal debate over a matter that's been disputed.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0002par0018	It's not right to make this an established tradition, Mr. President. I mean, I don't want to be nervous at first, but it has to be talked into something.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0001par0019	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. I won't take it off the agenda. If there are any members of the group who would like to enter the system, if there are any members of the group who would like to speak, as of today, I will make a promise to the members of the group -- if you have a request -- or else we'll move on to the agenda.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0003par0022	Are our minutes gone again, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0004par0023	Mr. President, we had one minute today.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0005par0024	Yeah, we wanted a word for a minute.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0006par0025	Congressmans, we've had the necessary discussion on this issue on January 9th. So, as of today, considering the intensity of the agenda and the intensity of the board's decision taken, we're going to go on the agenda.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0005par0026	Mr. President, I'd like to know why you're uncomfortable with our minutes of conversation.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0006par0027	I don't mind, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0005par0028	Then why don't you give me 15 minutes of...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0006par0029	I always do, so we're talking.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0005par0030	You don't always.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0006par0031	We had the argument about it the other day.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0007par0032	This is the first time you've started this.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0005par0033	Why don't you give it to me then? If you'd always given it to me, you'd give it to me here to do something that's right.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0006par0034	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Commander, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0007par0035	Not until this week, Mr. President, you started this week, you started this.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0005par0036	Why are we being interrupted when we're talking about such an important issue, when we're talking about a constitutional amendment?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0006par0037	Here you are, Mr. Commander. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0008par0041	Mr. President, our MP Nursel Aydoğan has been sentenced to four years and eight months in prison today. His second trial was held within a week, and a court ruling came out. It's an interesting thing to be convicted of, and it's an interesting thing to be convicted of, and all the friends who have served two or three semesters here know about it. Although he was not a member of the terrorist organization... such a conviction was established in a way that led to a 40-wheel-turning interpretation of the law, which began with the term "terror organization." We're going to make this more specific in the talks in the future, and it's an example that the courts are so enthusiastic, so fast, so hungry that they're going to put a punishment on us in our country where everything is walking in an antstep. This is clearly a political operation, especially given the way the government is being tried on the courts, considering the way our MPs are being detained. What is meant to be done by this is to condemn the will of a people to silence, especially in one language, one nation, one, one...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0009par0045	Please complete, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0008par0046	We think that it's almost a mythic thing in the Constitutional debate, but it's the result of the appetite to single up so much in a multilingual, multicultural, multi-religious country that people can only comprehend. Such insufferability has always existed in this land, against an insubstantial voice, a opposing voice, a voice, but the fact that politics is now run by courts has never been so reckless. I think all lawmakers should give it a voice within their own law and conscience. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0010par0049	Thank you. Mr. Akçay, I promise you two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0011par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the anniversary of the death of Rauf Denktas, a great statesman, President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, who dedicated his life to the Cyprus trial. As we all know, the greatest desire for Denktas, who dedicated his life to his country and to his nation, was the handover of the Cyprus case and the Turkish Cypriot rights. For this reason, the deceased Denktas has reported the Cyprus case everywhere he goes, knocked on every door to leave his lands as a world-renowned state for future generations, expressing the suffering and struggle of the Turkish Cypriots at every turn. Because his only and greatest love was Cyprus. Therefore, the Cyprus talks in Geneva are even more important today. In these talks in Geneva, no solution can be accepted to bring our Cyprus case back to its position. The Cyprus case, which Rauf Denktas had dedicated his life to, was the only wish for both the people of Cyprus and the Republic of Turkey to be resolved in the way he desired. Those in Cyprus who call Turkish troops an invasion force, guaranteed by Turks on the island, must know that the existence and continuation of the Turkish Cypriot state is a national case for the Republic of Turkey. Those who try to intimidate us, discourage us from our national issue by the influence of the European Union will remain in their ambitions. Denktash is Turkey's most legitimate and actual case. Turkey, which does not defend this case, cannot defend anything. It actually points to something very, very important. Tell the Greeks that even in his last breath there is Turkish domination. I want to repeat from here once again that we will cherish the memory of the great statesman Rauf Denktas. The Cyprus case is the case of the entire Turkish nation. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0012par0058	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0013par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. As Mr. Akçay said, the anniversary of the death of Rauf Denktas, the leader and founder of the Turkish Cypriot community, the Turkish Cypriot community, and Rauf Denktas. His great service to the Cyprus case will be remembered by our nation as long as the world stops, and our gratitude for him will never be diminished. On this occasion, I wish him mercy. May his place be in heaven. Speaking of the Cyprus case, before the start of the Geneva negotiations, I'd like to point out that I find it odd that Mr. Prime Minister would refer to the proposed constitutional amendment of the regime change in parliament as our most important job. Although the Prime Minister of Greece would not normally go because he didn't, but while there was no issue, the Prime Minister's comparison between the Cyprus issue and this regime change law discussed in Parliament and his saying that this is more important to us... among all the prime ministers in our 90-year-old republic history, if we looked at it, it would be more awkward, more painful, and more in need of explanation, a prime minister's explanation, in 65 governments, I suppose, Mr. President, could not be found.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0014par0065	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0013par0066	The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is still in charge, according to the existing Constitution. This is a situation that needs explanation. So, about the Cyprus case, I have to vote in Parliament. So to hell with the Turkish Cypriots. The understanding -- not quite this sentence -- has deeply upset us, as it has upset us -- and our fellow Cypriots. If we knew, we'd tell the Prime Minister to go there. We'd find a vote, damn it. I want to make it very clear that we're very upset about this, that it's very hurtful, that it's insulting, and I want to make it very clear to the public and to the Council that the Prime Minister has been able to understand... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Would you excuse me?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0014par0069	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0013par0070	...has a duty to speak up, Mr. President. It is not acceptable, it is not acceptable. I say we're very, very upset, and we regret that a white stamp has been chosen over our Cyprus case. On the other hand, we must also express our regret: I also regret that Mr. President should report the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, lawmakers to the muhtars, and Mr. President trying to adjust it to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0015par0074	Thank you. Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0016par0077	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the General Assembly. It has always been emphasised on how important the Cyprus case was to Turkey in the period of the EC PARTY governments and during the period before us in the ruling period. In our time, the AK PARTI authorities, the state of the Republic of Turkey, the government and its nation have been with the Cyprus case and the Turkish Cypriot, and will continue to be. During talks in Geneva, officials of the state of the Republic of Turkey are closely monitoring their work there as a garantator country. I'd like to express to you that our government is aware of the developments, the events. In this respect, I would also like to say that we don't appreciate the fact that our government or our party or the state of the Republic of Turkey should be dismissed as having a disinterest in the current talks here or in the Cyprus case. Such a thing is unthinkable, especially when it comes to the young country of Cyprus. In the same way, we would like to say once again that the work of the Parliament must be carried out in harmony and in accordance with the Civil Code. I don't think it's right to create air, create perception, and then try to claim a right from here. This is the Constitution and the Civil Law that we have to abide by. Other than that, I don't think we have the right to make an application, a request, and at the end of my words, the death anniversary that was involved in the Cyprus case today...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0017par0082	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0016par0083	In the same way, we want to express that we also remember the first President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, Mr. Rauf Denktas, the first President of the Republic of Northern Cyprus, who has made great efforts in the Cyprus case, and the support and efforts that the Turkish Cypriots have given to the fight for freedom will never be forgotten. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0017par0085	Thank you. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly He begins from the sources in the village of Dereköy, on the slope of Beydağ, Antalya, Kumluca, and gives life to the vast variety of fluorine and faunas in the 70km-long Alakir Valley, where the village of Büyükalan meets from the villages of Kuzca and Karacaören, and to the rich cultural riches of the districts of Kumluca and Finkie, which are the most important in its clean water, within the Alakir River, the 70kır River, in the 70km-long valley of Alakır, where its local people and its very valuable cultural riches. In the ancient valley of Kosara, Kitanaura, Idebesso, Kotanna, Akaliassos, Kormos, Madnaus, 2. Recent research has found that the region has hosted many endemic species. Today, the Alakir River will be completely destroyed by eight hydropower plants, which are predicted to be built from its source to the coast, and also by some of them, (HES) (HES 1 HES, Alakir 2 HES, Kürce HES, Dereköy HES, Kuzderee HES, Fish HES, Tea SeaHS). For tens of thousands of years, the Alaker River, which will be confined to the pipes, will end its natural life, its natural life, and in the event that this massacre project on the valley and the region's only lifeblood, the Alaır River, will be carried out, first and foremost all the creatures that benefit from its water, its own micro climate, and many species of plants that live in the river with red spotted trout and other plants around it. With the changing of the valley's own micro climate, the whole balance of nature will be disturbed, and with the negative impact of the rain regime, droughts, floods, erosion, forest fires, increased risk and disease will arise. In these conditions, neither agriculture nor tourism can be a source of livelihood and life for the people of the region. In the process, the locals will have to leave the region and will disappear in time with all rich cultural and local values. Those who have no place to go and no opportunity will have to try to live with huge power poles, cables, and drought, along with incredible visual pollution that plants risk forest fire and spread powerful magnetic waves that increase the risk of cancer in living beings. In addition, thousands of local trees will be massacred and slaughtered while closed conduits for miles are installed in the construction of power plants. During constructions, the region's own sensitive topography is replaced by giant business machines, and the mountains are riddled with stone grinders, and the stone grinders are crumbled to bits, triggering erosion. In addition to the trees that have been cut down and destroyed, the transmission line is opened and the lands that have been randomly scattered around are also destroyed by the surrounding trees and plants. The environmental impact assessment report is not required legally, since the production capacity of these primitive HES (HES), which is presented as renewable and sustainable, is shown below 10 megabytes. In addition, it must be understood that the money that can be carried on these projects, which can only be earned by the production of electricity, has been completely destroyed in an unsustainable way and destroyed by nature itself. The decorum of the Alaır River is low, and the total amount of electricity planned to be produced is a sum that is absolutely not worth destroying this wonderful valley of nature over tens of thousands of years, and its true local owners, all of its living life, irreversibly. The most tragic of all is the amount of water that they promised to leave in the lower bed of the river, which will disappear amongst the pebbles and stones a few hundred metres in the warm and dry summer months, when nature and living creatures most need water. It should also be known that while new HES investments are not allowed in developed countries, those who have been allowed in the past are projects that have been conducted under strict control and primarily under the rules of the basin, allowing only 1 or 2 HES to be built into a river. Today, there are investments in natural-friendly, modern solar and wind energy projects. For these reasons, we provide and propose the necessary opening of Parliamental research on the 98th, 104th and 105th Articles of the Constitution, in order to determine the damage done to both the region and the people of the region, and to provide solutions for their lives. [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[Sivas]] [[Manisa]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] 8) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 10) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[Artvin]] [[40s.]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Aydın]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] [[40s.]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Burdur]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the problems of environmental engineers working in the private sector, we respectfully submit the opening of the Parliamental Research Commission under the Articles 104, 105, of our 98th and Interior Charter. [[Artvin]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Sivas]] [[Manisa]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] 10) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] 11) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[40s.]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Aydın]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] [[40s.]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Burdur]] My working life brings flexibility, insecurity and illegal running, and today engineers face different forms of insecurity and irregularity in working lives. Low wages are among the most common forms of this situation: long and uncertain hours and the fact that the SGO bonus is not paid over the actual fee. According to the protocol signed between TMMOB and the SGK on 31/7/2012 and put into practice in 2013, TMMOB delivers a minimum wage year-on-year to the SGK on the basis of disciplines operating in engineering, architecture and urban planning to prevent short notice of wages. The minimum fee set by TMMOB is gross $3,000 for 2015. With this protocol with the SGK, TMMOB's minimum wage has been asked to prevent payment from being paid. However, many of the TMMOB-related rooms are required to be inspected by the SGK, reportedly employing several engineers for even a thousand lira under the lower limit fee set by protocol. The environmental consulting sector takes over the same construction sector as the construction control firms. However, construction control companies receive a sort of consulting fee from municipalities, while environmental consulting firms get their consulting fees from the company's owner. Therefore, regular inspections cannot be carried out. Our view is that the handler, the counselor, the boss shouldn't be an employee. This is planned in the business health and labour safety sector. In the environmental counselling sector, it is evident that this is a need by the state for more effectively monitoring factories through environmental advisers and environmental engineers, and for swift results. In accordance with regulations on the Environment Management Unit and Environmental Advice Firms, environmental engineers are forced to receive environmental staff training to do environmental work, which was published on 21/11/2013 on 1/1/2014. The Chamber of Environmental Engineers objects and demands that this exercise be corrected. The environmental officer is described as "an employee who organises in-house annual audit programmes that can cause environmental pollution and/or cause environmental pollution due to its activities, which evaluate the regulation of the facilities that are subject to supervision under the environmental law and by the regulations imposed under its laws. Environmental Engineer is the person who works on the best use of natural resources, protection of the natural environment, and human health development. Environmental engineers, as part of the prevention of environmental pollution, environmental management systems and plans, environmental impact assessment (CED), drinking and use water, domestic and industrial waste water, rainwater, solid waste, hazardous and dangerous waste, domestic and industrial waste, air pollution, noise, land and underground water resources pollution, ethics, feasibility, project, research, development and planning, consulting and training, management, examination and practice and operating management, drafting and editing, computing and computing, computing and computing, computing, computing and measuring, testing and testing, and testing. The person who graduated from the university's Department of Environmental Engineering is a person who has been educated for four academic years in the environment. The ministry has imposed environmental staff training on environmental engineers for three days and six days for other vocational groups. As you can see from these definitions and practices in life, an environmental engineer is already more competent than an environmental worker's definition and practice. In light of the above issues stated, we respectfully present the opening of the Parliament's research commission under Articles 104, 105, of our 98th and Interior Charter, in order to investigate the problems of environmental engineers working in the private sector. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate issues in the affairs of transport in our country, we respectfully submit to the opening of the Parliament's research commission under the Articles 104, 105, of our Constitution's 98th and Interior Charter. [[Artvin]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Sivas]] [[Manisa]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] 10) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] 11) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[40s.]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Aydın]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] [[40s.]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Burdur]] The transport industry, which provides 25 per cent of the country's economy and 17 per cent of employment, has followed a self-improvement course. It has increased the importance of carrying passengers and loads along with the migration that began in rural cities after the 1950s. The transport industry has developed in a distorted way since the 1950s, and the workers have been employed for many years without proper legal guarantees and without security. Drivers and assistants in the transportation business worked in air-conditioning vehicles, summer, winter, winter, winter, winter, and boiling heat, in extraordinary efforts. This once highly respected profession has become increasingly disreputable, and now the workers in transportation work want to quit this job. The social and economic situation of these labour workers must be investigated when transport, transport, transport, interstate passengers and transport and international passengers and cargo are classified in the field of transportation. In particular, the engine and its derivative fuel costs, road fares and other expenses indicate that workers are in economic distress before they can even get a price for poverty. High HTV and VAT rates for transport vehicles have failed to use family, social life, vacation, and rest basic rights. In light of the above issues stated, we respectfully submit to the opening of the Parliament's research commission under Articles 104, 105, of our Constitution 98th and Interior Charter 104, in order to investigate issues in the field of transport and to determine the necessary arrangements. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Friday 13/01/2017 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 12 October 2016, Van MP Mr. Nadir Yıldırım and his friends offered 3022 rows, "the solution to the problems of our disabled citizens and the comprehensive consideration of the loss of rights created by the wrong policies" was suggested to be read in the same history of presentations and the joint joint representation of the parliamentary research motion to the Turkish Parliament to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. The first statement in favour of the People's Democratic Party's group proposal is from Diyarbakır MP Ziya Pir. [[Applause from HDP rows]] I only ask you and all the speakers: please -- we have to give one to another -- if they adjust themselves to complete their speech during all the speakers' time -- I'm telling you now that I won't give extra time. The entire group of vice presidents are here. Here you go, sir. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0018par0276	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0019par0277	Mr. President, Adıyamans are always giving. Why are you being so stingy?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0017par0278	I mean, to establish justice, I mean...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0020par0279	But you can give me a minute.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0017par0280	Now it's hard not to give it to someone. Now that you've lost a minute, for example, I need to add a minute here, start it up again. Here you go, Mr. Pir.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0021par0283	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, Mr. Tanal, I salute you all. Now, we've just received word today, Mr. Nursel Aydoğan, that the court has made a decision regarding our Diyarbakır MP. I'd like to state here that we don't find that decision right, and we see that, and we're sad to see that the administration has taken custody of the law over living by the hand of the judge. Please don't object too much to this, and we've seen and talked in court in the last few weeks, so don't make us explain. Now, I'm here to speak with the sadness of that court decision and the state of custody of the House. As far as we're concerned, on Friday friends and Tin surah, we've created people in the most beautiful way. This is how they're translated from all the scholars, but no matter what the wisdom is, people put other people in different shapes, separate them as good and bad, you know, because they're sad, and eventually they'll find that they're known to other people as sad people. If God created everyone in the best possible way, then why this distinction, where does it come from? Now, of course, in people's history and cultural lives, in their sociological lives, they've produced certain norms in their brains, and there are boundaries, walls, barriers that they've established with those norms, and according to the condition of those restrictions or barriers or walls -- some people keep it broader, some people keep it narrower -- other than those walls -- we call them abnormal, other than the norm. If you are within those limits, you are not disabled. I hope this motion of research will be accepted, and at least we can overcome those obstacles in our minds a little bit, because to us, in ideal societies, those boundaries are as wide as they can be, and they can't be isolated. Only people who maintain biological life are disabled, or if they have trouble maintaining biological life and being in the visible parts of life, people are disabled because there are barriers out there, there are constraints. In order to correct this situation, the Constitution, according to Article 2 of the Constitution, has made some laws, some regulations, but beyond that, Tin Suresi, we created people in the best possible way. People have certain rights, and the Constitution, which is the mirror of society, of course, has obligations to communities and society. We are awaiting their fulfillment from the governments and from this House. We see that the government can't fulfill its obligation enough, so we downloaded this motion today. How many people are we talking about here? In developed countries, disability is 89% of the population, up to 10 to 12 per cent in developing countries, and in Turkey it is about 12.5 per cent. If we calculate this with their families, about 30 or 35 million people in Turkey -- half the population -- everyone has one disability in their homes, one in each person's house. Now, if we separate them according to gender, about 60 per cent of the disabled in Turkey are men, the remaining 40 per cent are women. There's a National Handicapped Database, so I'm telling you these numbers. Again, if we look at the situation of education, the percentage of the disabled, of all the people over 6 years of age in Turkey, is 2.9 percent, and the number of disabled individuals is up to 40 percent, up to 42. If we look at them as boys and girls again, the ratio of people who can't read and write to women is 55 percent, while the ratio of men to men is 32 percent. There's also a lot of trouble with disabled women. We need to make women see both discrimination and violence from being disabled and women, friends. According to the World Health Organization, women who have been subjected to violence at least once in their life are slightly above 30 percent, around 33%. It is still over 40 per cent in Turkey. The risk of disabled women not being able to identify the perpetrator, especially in social pre-presumption and stereotypes, is greater than any other woman who is physically and verbally incapable of resisting violence and suffering all kinds of violence. The violence of disabled women in their homes, in their homes, in their homes, in their homes, in their schools is a fact that everyone knows but unfortunately, most of us do not speak of, and we need to fix it. As you can see, dear friends, the disabled have lost their rights. But if we go to categorize the disabled among them, if we categorize them like men and women, boys and girls, we can see different rights losses again. Of course, we're not supposed to forget the disabled prisoners here. How many disabled prisoners are in prisons, what kind of obstacles do they have, and what are their conditions? We've asked the Minister of Justice about this before; unfortunately, we don't have any data, we don't have a database. And here we think the Justice Department should do a little more serious work. Now, in 2006, a Health Council Convention -- that later, at the end of 2010 -- came into effect. It says: the loss of body function only causes serious loss of rights when measured by health board reports. A person with a 100% visual disability can report loss of body function by 30 to 35 percent to a physically or mentally disabled person with a 90% or 70% disability. This, of course, means that the disabled who have received certain rights before should be deprived of those rights or a certain portion of those rights. That's not true either. We're going to need to re-examine these as well. Now, in the end, the disabled are largely deprived of democratic rights and the most basic human rights, as well as being left out of education, health, transportation, employment, and all kinds of economic and social spaces, as well as not participating in the social process, and because the issue is not perceived as a social phenomenon, we have to be the subject of self-centered acts of philanthropy. The issue of accessibility and visibleness for disabled people is at the top of problems. In and out of places where the individual lives, without the need for anyone else's help, we can put down a lot of these dots, you all know that, like the creation of living spaces where it can get from one point to one point, where it can move safely and freely. I just want to give you two examples: One, that bench. We were exposed to violence here two days ago. While we're doing this, Mr. President, it's an offer, and at the same time, I think it's time for a new podium. We have disabled friends, and they'll be in the future. It's perfectly possible that by pressing a button, the hydraulic system will go up or down this podium. I think it needs to be done. Second: We recently saw on social media that there was a problem with a disabled person taking the bus in Istanbul. There, the driver was suspended for a while, a scapegoat. Instead, there could be different mechanisms for buses, which could be automatic. These are necessary in Turkey. I just mentioned... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm probably out of time. Anyway, you got it from here. I hope you won't say no to this motion. There's a blessing in no these days, but yes, there is a blessing in this motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0022par0303	Thank you, Mr. Pir. Now, the second word against the People's Democratic Party Group Proposal belongs to Aydın MP Deniz Depboylu. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0023par0307	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion to address the problems of our disabled citizens. I salute your grand delegation and the mighty Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, we all know the problems our disabled citizens face in everyday life. This can only be a physical barrier to our citizens, a visual barrier, a hearing barrier, or a more severe barrier. Today, when you're out on the street, when you're out on the street, when you want to get out, or when you want to do some of your own work in your own house -- even before you go on the street -- we all know what kind of obstacles you're facing, because most of us are surrounded by someone who's disabled, even if they're not in their family. There are a lot of problems facing our disabled children, our young ones, in education. For one thing, we have to give up this perception: The obstacle does not prevent education. One person may be blind. It doesn't mean that he can't be a good professional, which, we know, we had blind friends in college, and most of them had higher grades than we did. They have an advantage, they can't see it, but their other senses develop more because they've learned to use it more. Again, it may be a physical disability, but we're looking at the problems they face in education, and in many of our schools, it's even a question of whether our disabled children can get into their classrooms if their classrooms are high. We still have disabled children on her mother's back who are still trying to go to school, mothers, mothers of great heart. Again, they have problems in the classrooms. I read the reason, there was a review of the reference training. Actually, boiling training isn't bad. You know, I've mentioned it before, and you may remember, I've served 20 years in various educational institutions of the Ministry of National Education, and we've had students that we've been training to boil. If the right decisions are made for the integration training and good practices are made, the skills of those students who are only integrated into good class management will not be improved, it will not be improved, it will not only be for that child, it will also be an opportunity for other children to develop. An opportunity to improve in what way? It's an opportunity to empathize. Understanding the other person is a good educational tool for managing his actions. In fact, I'd like to give you an example. Years ago, one of our students... look, there's also the fact that we may not be born disabled, that sometimes diseases can cause disability, accidents can cause that. A student of ours forgot to read and write in the 4th grade as a result of a severe epilepsy seizure. You know what? The child's problem -- there's already a problem with the disease -- and along with the skills he lost, he caused intense stress on the child, causing behavioral disorder. Children in the 4th grade are not capable of empathizing, and for a long time, they were emotionally and verbally abused in the classroom, and the other children could not understand it. Parents considered that boy troubled and wanted that boy out of the classroom. In the end, we sent this child to the relevant institutions of RAM, and the decision was made to boil it, and I'll tell you what happened after the decision was made to build it. First of all -- we say that good class management is very important -- we took our child out of class without offending him, we trained the kids, we talked about his friend's situation, and we trained the families from behind. We trained our teachers in the first place. We gave the child a proper training program in class, and while this child gained complete confidence in his sixth grade, his grades went up, he entered the school choir in seventh grade, became a student representative candidate, and he got a very good grade. When he came to eighth grade, when he was about to finish, the inspectors came to the school. I've asked the inspectors. Our friends have been so selfless, they've managed the process so well. Look, this child of ours came to a very good point -- he was already being treated -- please, can you honor my friends, a thank you can be written. When I said, "Today's TEOG then got a higher score than OKS?" he said. Of course, that child of ours didn't have the power to score higher than the OKS at the time, but even an elementary-school inspector doesn't know what boiling education is, how it should be implemented, unless my fellow lawmakers here know my friends, who are far away from education, can't. Our child, who is currently in a good university, at a very good university, at a very good university, is a student, and his parents are both very happy and very happy, and the class he grew up in has become very beautiful, very talented. Here's how important education is to our disabled children, and the importance of boiling education is very important if it is well applied. In everyday life -- I don't want to take up too much time -- roads, transportation, of course -- when you're all thinking about the roads, how are our cars going to go? We don't think about how our undocumented citizen will pass. Urban construction, urban planning is very important. Even in public buildings, conditions have not been created to provide the comfortable application of disabled citizens. I know the subsidiaries, I know the police departments, that a disabled citizen can't go from one floor to the next. Again, I don't want to talk about employment problems, you know, which we all know, they've been talked about a lot. However, there is much to be done about security and abuse, not only for our disabled children, our young people, our citizens, but for all our individuals. I admit, you did something in your time of power, something good may have happened for the disabled, but there are things that aren't good, things that are missing. The disabled should not be seen as needy individuals, the assistance offered should not be offered to create conditions for creating a guarantee of voting, and the restrictions imposed so far should be waived. If you don't vote, you'll lose those rights. Our disabled individuals are our most valuable assets. Again, we need to look after the children of disabled individuals, disabled families, their parents, they cannot benefit from certain rights, and we need to get help directly to our disabled citizens, and they should not be expected to come and ask for help. There's so much to do. Please, don't brag about what you've done as a ruling party, there's a lot of ways to go. When the safety of all our citizens is ensured, our mission will not be completed when all our citizens are protected and under the best of circumstances, and then we will be protected, hopefully, to that point. I look forward to the day when all this can be done. I hope we can all do it together. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0024par0318	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. The second statement in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal belongs to İstanbul MP Eren Erdem. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0025par0322	Mr. President, the most valuable MPs have been addressed important issues concerning the disabled here. In this country, disabled ones are a reality that we really need to keep above our heads, a reality that needs to be normalized and secured in a social way. In our parliament, we also have highly respected lawmakers in both the ruling group and the opposition group; they live their lives as disabled without their own personal preferences. All talks must include the rights of the Constitutional studies, their rights, as well as the rights of the broad parts of the community today that do not have the right or share of the Constitutional agreements. Now, dear friends, a lot has been said about the issues of our disabled citizens, and I thank all those group speakers, and I want to say that I approve of them all. We're having a constitutional discussion here, friends, in this Constitutional debate, there are no disabled, no Alevis, no Kurds, no social layer that creates this society.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0026par0325	Do you have bayonets?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0025par0326	There's only one person, friends, and only one person, who has increased power...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0026par0327	Be not divided, we are brothers: we are brethren, and are brethren.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0025par0328	In a way, a constitution is being prepared on the basis that the law in that person's hands is multiplying the powers of the executive body and that all of this is being accumulated in one person's hands. While this constitution is being prepared, dear friends, there's a lot of writing and drawing. I'm not here to criticize the ruling party or to investigate it at some point; I'm here to give a sincere warning as the child of this country, dear friends. Now, while I'm making this warning, I hope that this warning will be taken into consideration by the ruling party. Do you know what a good friend's warning is? Now, notice, for some time now, both social media and visual media have been writing very interesting things about this Constitution. Friends, cults in the parliamentary system, congregations, or organizations without any religious belonging, can take over the state in 40 years, but in countries like this, they can do it very easily in four hours, friends. What do fascist coupgers do when they attempt a coup or when they have succeeded in the past? They'll send troops to all of the government's institutions, and they'll take over, but in the order you've brought in, it's enough to send one person in there to take over the state. So if the people who are rubbing their hands come in tomorrow's presidency, we'll take out a secret crypto by concealing it, and we'll take over the entire state. At the point of their account, they're doing a very serious work, because the order you've made opens the way to change the order of the entire state when a person changes; when a person goes out there, it somehow allows him to bring himself there with various manipulations, to have the power and ability to transform all the institutions and institutions of the state. It could be someone else, it could be another thought system. While we need to eliminate polarisation, maintain social peace, transform reconciliation into the body of politics at a time when large parts of society have been polarized, especially inside and out, Turkey has become a serious target, we're hand-holding a study that will help deepen conflict and political conflict between 51 and 49 with this constitutional amendment. It's not a healthy job, dear friends, it's not the right work. This constitution, my friends, will in no way benefit this country. Now, recently, you'll remember... I'm not going to make any accusations, of course, so I'm just saying that I find all the names that I'm going to name remarkable, but I'm going to share these examples here to see where the public is going. You remember there was an incident called the Pelican file. What happened? Against Mr. Davutoglu, who is grouped around the ruling party today and defines himself as a journalist, who I don't think is a journalist because the journalist never gets paid anywhere but the newspaper he works for; the journalist gets paid only from the institution where he works; he gets paid from the newspaper. What happened? Suddenly, in those articles, again, today, they appeared in media organs, where the government was somehow connected, making extraordinary accusations against Davutoglu. Now, my friends, look, if these allegations are true, then, in the event that Mr. Davutoglu is president tomorrow, woe is to the state of this country, which I don't think is true. If that's not true, then where we're coming from, this media order could bring a very dangerous president to this country tomorrow. So, a president can take over the entire rule of the state, appoint a man of his own will to the judiciary, design and execute life in his own way, organize his own way, organize the governor, et cetera, et cetera, and transform this country into a land of uninhabitable chaos. The arrangement brought in is wrong. The forces are not equal, but we need to deepen the separation of forces; we need to disseminate power not by one hand, but by one hand. Look, my dear friends, there are many MPs here, especially the majority of the ruling party lawmakers' reading -- which I enjoy very much -- and I'd like to have this kind of debate and debate in the lobby -- when we look at the history of Islam, there's a famous contract we know as the Medicine Vesika. The Medina Vesica, friends, unites all the different communities of faith there in a single partnership agreement, and allows all the religious communities to have a say and to have a stable existence in the process of co-existence. When we put the Medina Convention on the table today, friends, the Medina Convention does not become president. It's not just a gathering of power at one point, it's a question of dispersing as much as it can; it's a matter of focusing power on a single point; it's a matter of getting as deep as it can, and it's a matter of sharing it into the wider parts of society. When we look at the 38th verse of the Quran chapter in the Quran, which reveals the spirit of the Treaty of Medina, a very important emphasis is made there, and it says, "Look, there are people who do their work with respect to it, and they spend it out of what they are provided with." • Friends, I wrote nine books on these concepts, on the history of Islam, on the philosophy of Islam. Here, in a very interesting way, the present language, in this language, gives a unique purpose to parliament's will, which is to spend what they've been provided with. So, guys, what's the interest? So, friends, it's the duty of Parliament, not to gather power in one place, but to spread wealth, blessings, power, authority, to socialize it in a way in society. Expansing the ownership of production tools, social capital, government authority, spreading it to the ground... friends, we're doing the opposite thing, we're putting it all together at one point. So, in fact, here, our friends, who say that they are based on the Qur'an as a reference, are doing something that contradicts their own references. Because the work that is done is wrong, a Constitutional contract, based on gathering power, capital, blessings, wealth, resources, resources, opportunities in one place, was brought in today. Friends, let's be conscientious, our country has big problems, let's discuss them. In this Parliament, please don't let anyone threaten anyone with early elections. We're not afraid of early elections, friends. You know why, because our fate is not at the fingertips of one person. Friends, the Republican People's Party is pre-electioning, and I wish you had a pre-election application. I'm sure none of you are afraid of early elections, you're not afraid, and early elections don't turn into blackmail material. Come, let's make an early election, renew Parliament, and then let the Constitution speak if that Parliament will speak. Let's go! It's a virtue to turn back from the wrong.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0027par0336	The second and final speaker against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is Konya MP Hadji Ahmet Özdemir. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0028par0339	Mr. President, thank you very much. I salute the precious Council. Sure, we don't know each other very well here. I'm also very fond of polemics, but my polarity has never been a front for me so far, usually I've talked about general issues. The speaker just made one of nine imperfect movements within 18 of such a penalty field. It's not for us not to blow the penalty whistle. I'm blowing the penalty whistle. He said: "There are no Alevis in the constitution, there are no Kurds, there are no Circastrians, there are no Georgians, there are no Abazas, there are no Abazas, there are no such things. " So you're going to say, "I'm smiling at secularism." And then you're going to say, "Why is there no Alevia here? Why is there no Kurdish here?" This is a direct conflict with yourself, but I'm getting to the point. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, the issue of the disabled is one of the things I've just become interested in, but it's also said that I'm good at what I do. Right now, I'm running the EC PARTY Co-ordinating Centre for the disabled of the EC, and soon, hopefully, we'll have pamphlets about the disabled, and we'll have a question-and-answer brochure that does deep analysis of the disabled, and as a prestigious book, we'll have a book that will consider legal regulations for the disabled. Now, in terms of the disabled, I particularly want to highlight the following issues: the emphasis on disability rights at the present point in the world is considered to be a measure of the level of development of democracies and social state understanding. In this sense, Turkey has done great work. There is only one country in the world whose constitution currently adopts the principle of positive discrimination against the bounds and its constitution, the state of the Republic of Turkey. (EC PARTY) When I said that in the European Parliament, the European Parliament marveled and admired it on the one hand, for complaining that the United Nations had imposed on them about the disabled. Here -- I've read the reason -- you're proposing that the group proposal open a parliamentary investigation. In my opinion, when you look at the actions of the AK PARTY regarding the disabled, you should ask for a thank-you study or a thank-you study, even though it is not in the Parliament in such a manner.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0029par0348	Only the disabled have been cut off according to the family income reduction.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0028par0349	I'm coming. Now, in the past, when the reports were being drawn up -- and I sincerely say, not because I'm an AK PARTY MP, but because I'm head of the Centre for Coordination of the disabled -- but when the health board reports were being filed, the proportions were only left to the physician's initiative.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0029par0351	It's not like that.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0028par0352	Right now, there's been at least an improvement in the setting of those rates...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0029par0353	Their pay's down.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0028par0354	...the obvious criteria have been introduced, and our physicians have determined the proportions of disability according to these criteria.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0029par0355	But there are a lot of victims, so look into it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0028par0356	Now, my poor determination is that right now the legislature and the executive body are in front of the citizens on the rights of the disabled, it's a matter of culture. I'm going to prove to you that we're going in front of the citizen, and I'm going to try to make it quick. Here, on the grounds, the disabled are alleged to be weak, in care, in protective custody and in need of help with the current practices. Look, however, the number of disabled officers has increased from 5.777 to 49,264. So we're talking about a multiple-layer job here. If you add the number of workers to this, there is about 150,000 jobs by the state. The private sector also has a 3% disability employment obligation. Therefore, the argument for motive remains in the air. I'm running out of time, Mr. Kabbat. I was gonna finish it in five minutes, but we're in a tricky spot right now, and we're in a bit of a hot spot, so if you don't mind my saying so. Now, the other issue is that there are things about the disabled, about the disabled, about the disabled -- be careful, this nation is a more saintly and respectful nation than any other nation in the world -- if there are abuses about disabled people, if there are abuses about women, children -- there used to be a saying that you could measure the quality of a person by the same expression. We need to apply that rule to the media. Another rule of law, as a basic rule of law, let me tell you, it's bad to talk about evil. I mean, if you put a bad thing on the table too much, then after a while, that evil is almost a legitimate personality, identity, identity. Right now, the media is making the exceptions seem like a society that violates each other's rights and laws by violating each other's rights. It's a method of perception, and maybe it's a perception management. At this point, the media needs a decent, healthy, clear language. At this point, I invite RTUK to try a little harder and please invite our citizens to be a little more sensitive. Please do not watch such programs. Because of the media, we think that the media's wrong policy has led to corruption in society, abuses have taken over an entire society. There's no such thing. This nation is walking through its dignity, its grace, through its glorious and glorious leave in history, with strong strides towards the future. So I want to finish talking to you about numbers, the language of numbers is simple. We've discussed employment, where the disability salary has been raised, and again, the language of numbers is simple, I want to point out here. The disability pension, which is $24.48, has been raised to $489.89.89. The numbers show that it has been increased exponentially. We have support in the form of home care support, which I give you in September 2016: 480,276 disabled citizens benefit from home care services.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0030par0361	Wrong, wrong, the minister has just informed me 475 thousand, your minister has informed me.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0028par0362	We'll see about the numbers, sir, don't worry, I have those numbers, I know them all very well. I'd also like to point out the error of our HDP MP friend and his secretary. On the basis of an old study, he gave us the number of disabled, so let's go over the figures of the 2002 main census. Once you remove the long-term diseases from the disabled, you'll see that the proportions of disability in Turkey are covered by the world's disability rates, Mr. Pir. So I'm not just saying that in an objection, I'm just saying that in a small way. What other ease was brought to the disabled? I won't have enough time because there's a lot of work to be done when you start ranking. A discount on interstate passenger buses, free or discounted travel on the State Railways, discounted flights on Turkish Airlines, discounted TTNET, discounted tariffs on GSM networks, discounts on water prices, property tax exemptions, ETV, MTV exemptions, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera... So, my recommendation is not to investigate Congress, but to open a thank-you study. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0031par0367	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0032par0368	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0033par0369	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0034par0370	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0035par0371	Let's make one promise at a time. Mr. Pir first, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0036par0373	Mr. President, Mr. Orator, you should give our group a thank-you motion, not a research proposal. He also gave me false information about my speech.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0035par0374	Yes, Mr. Pir. I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0037par0379	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of parliament, now, just now, Mr. orator, has said that the Constitution in Turkey has a clause only related to the disabled. If we take this part of the disabled, it may be true if we see it in a narrow context, but if there are friends who are interested in the European Union, those who are interested in the constitutions there, in the European Union, they know that principles against discrimination are mandatory in all constitutions, in the Constitutions of the European Union, and so on. There, people do not separate between the disabled and the other differences. For example, there are disabled people, foreigners are taken, and different languages are taken, all of which are put into one item. So that's just in Turkey. It's not very true to say. Other than that, it's not about writing something down -- there's a lot in Turkey, there's a lot in the Constitution -- it's about applying it. What is being implemented in Turkey? For example, today, the court has decided on one of our MPs, our MPs are under arrest, and this Parliament, the Chairman of this Assembly or the Vice President of this Assembly, says that we cannot declare anything here in a walking case. We can declare anything. Friends, we must, because the judiciary ignores the Constitution and the laws that this Assembly has made. If we have self-respect here, if the House has respect for itself, then very, very strongly from here, I have made the law, the constitution, and you have to obey it. He says, "Thank you, all of you."
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0038par0383	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0039par0384	Your Grace, your...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0038par0385	On the basis of my speech at the beginning of the oratorial speech, the defective actions within the penalty field...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0039par0386	That's a bit of a challenge, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0038par0387	But I have to answer...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0039par0388	It's really a challenge, and I don't consider it a taunt, but I'll make you a promise based on 60. I promise you for a minute, according to 60.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0040par0390	Nothing is done for the disabled.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0039par0391	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0041par0394	Mr. President, in his precious orator talk, he gave a speech that he had received a penalty and scored a goal for his own castle. Sir, for the record, we have 8.5 million disabled people in our country. The number of disabled employees is 84,000, 41,000. Currently, there are no disabled ramps in the 30,000 public buildings, 94.2% for visually impaired, 67.5% of the buildings do not have elevators. I really think we need to make a thank-you proposal, and I think it's because of the persecution we've been doing to the disabled, that I salute the minister.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0042par0397	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0043par0398	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0042par0399	Mr. Balbay, what did you want to say?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0043par0400	Mr. President, I'm Mr. Özdemir. There's a huge lack of information. Or it could be my place, just a minute.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0042par0403	We don't have that kind of procedure, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0043par0404	Then it's like this: it could be from here.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0044par0405	Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0042par0406	All right, let's get him on the record. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0045par0408	It's enough to go into the records.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0042par0409	Go ahead and say it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0045par0410	Mr. Özdemir is a person that I love, that I have sympathy for, that we have a book. In 2005, the AKP passed a very good law: in seven years, all state institutions would be eligible for the disabled. In 2012 he extended two more years, two more years in 2015; now, they extended it to 2018, 7/7/2018; and my only wish is that they will make this promise: we will not extend it again. Let them say, at least that's enough.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0046par0412	It's about those vehicles, Mr. President. It's about interstate vehicles, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0047par0413	It's just about the vehicles, you're wrong, it's just about the vehicles.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0045par0414	They cheat the disabled with a postponement every two years on the harmony of state institutions. I want to stress that in particular.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0048par0415	Thank you, Mr. Balbay. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0049par0422	We want enough numbers for the meeting, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0050par0423	Mr. President, there aren't 20 people.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0048par0424	How many of you are there? Are there 20? 18. Should we wait?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0051par0426	We're here, sir, we're up, we're up, we're up, President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0048par0428	Yes, they're finishing it, they've finished it from CHP.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0052par0430	There's no such thing, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0053par0431	So, when you guys partner up, we're saying something?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0048par0432	Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Toğrül, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, Mr. Pir, Mr. Uca, Mr. Beştaş, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Ocalan, Mr. Yiğtıalp, Mr. Kadri Yıldırım, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Taşçüer, Mr. Çelik, Mr. Öztüklı, Mr. Ertan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Creator. I'll give you four minutes to roll call...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0054par0434	Give me ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0055par0436	Ten, ten
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0056par0438	You'd better give me ten minutes!) You're so neutral, Mayor, you don't show it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit01spe0057par0440	...and begin roll call. [[The electronic device started the inspection.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the compasses, please do not leave the hall. [[Investigation continued with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0057par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote of the People's Democratic Party group, the roll call on demand was not enough. Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the People's Democratic Party Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Friday 13/01/2017 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Tekirdağ MP Faik Öztrak has submitted a parliamentary research motion issued by the Turkish Central Bank on 23/03/2016 to determine "the reason for the extraordinary increase in recent increases in the net error and lacks of funding in the data, which is in the balance of payments published by the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey (361 rows no. lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, which will be read in Friday's Friday (13/01/2017), and held in the same dated combination of its talks. The first statement in favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is from Tekirdağ MP Faik Öztrak. Here you go, Mr. Oztrak.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0058par0025	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the Parliament's research motion, which I gave about a year ago, in order to investigate the unsubstantiated cash inputs that were monitored in the net error of the balance of payments account. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our following citizens. Precious lawmakers are followed by clear error in the balance of payments between people who reside in Turkey and people who are not yet determined where they came from. In 14 years from the beginning of AKP power to November 2016, the amount of foreign exchanges that entered the country came from nowhere is $39 billion. In contrast, the unresolved money that has come into our country in the past 22 years, starting in 1980, when the Turkish economy was released, is zero, my friends. In just 11 months of 2016, we received $9.6 billion from a net error account. At this rate, last year, 2016, Turkey will set a new record for money entrys that we don't know where they came from. I think it's our House's duty to investigate and inform the nation of these unusually high source of foreign currency in an environment where the president talks about dollars, euros, interest terrorists. Dear lawmakers, the economy was getting bigger, the economy was slowing down, and now it's getting narrower. If I find a job, I'll work. With those who say, there are about 6 million unemployed. Trust in the economy is historical. The value of our money is dollar, rapidly melting against the euro. For the last year in our league, we've been the economy that's lost the most value of its money against dollars. With the value of Turkish lira melting, the nation is getting poor every day, the danger of losing its job is increasing every day. The Real sector has reported the loss of 166 billion Turkish liras in currency over the past year due to its high foreign debt. Even so, Mr. Zeybekci, Minister of Economy, today there is no risk of Kur. Mr. Secretary, do you realize that in just 13 days since New Year's, our companies have lost 61 billion Turkish dollars in currency? Because of our rapidly increasing foreign debt and poor currency reserves, we've been among the three most fragile countries in the league of economies that look like us for a long time, and it never improves. The shop can't afford it, and the shops that haven't been closed since the Ottomans have been closed in the Closed Market, and the sign for rent has been put on 700 shops today. There were three tax offices, and they fell to one. In contrast, the executive offices in Sites are increasing. The farmer's gas, fertilizer, seed prices, as they run from record to record, product prices can't keep up with the price of input. The citizen was crushed by inflation. The industry is moaning under the burden of external debt. Dear friends, the foreign debt we're going to pay in the next year is 164 billion dollars. Add to that the $32 billion account deficit we predicted for 2017, the money we should find outside 2017, the currency, the currency, is about $200 billion. Split it up. You have to find half a billion dollars every day. So the Prime Minister said, "What happens if the dollar doesn't fill us?" "I'll look after the person who enters the vault." Okay, guys, what's in the safe? I'll tell you, as of January 11th, the Turkish Central Bank has a net reserve of $34.7 billion, including gold. That means we'll only last two months if we don't get the money from the outside. The president of this country, which has been swimming the economy for years with foreign debt, now says to sell the citizen a dollar. But the Minister of Economy also says the Central Bank must not sell dollars. On the first day the president said it, our citizen who sold a thousand dollars put his Turkish lira in his pocket, and when he went to the bank today, he could only get $684 in his pocket. Dear ruling party MPs, dear government, don't you intend to make amends for this damage? Yesterday, the president began talking about terrorists with dollars, euros, interest. Dear lawmakers, in June 2009, didn't the AKP rule over the decision that allowed all companies to borrow money, whether it was foreign currency or not? By signing this decision as Prime Minister, they're the ones who make companies depend on foreign debt, aren't they? Dear lawmakers, it seems we have another situation in which power has been deceived by terrorists. If you accept this motion to investigate, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will find its authors. On the other hand, terror as a country is hurting us. We used to fight a single separatist terrorist group, and now new organizations, such as ISIS, Å, have been added. We've lost hundreds of people in treacherous attacks, losing them. In the last year and a half, we have buried 1,093 of our children, our martyrs, on this land. Because of the past wrong policies of power, our young people are giving their lives in Syria today to preserve the integrity of their homeland. On the other hand, Cyprus is one of the most important national cases in this country, and the Turkish National Assembly needs to know what is being done about it, but Turkey's National Assembly is on its way to becoming Cyprus, or is it not? What is being received and what is being given in the talks currently in Geneva? Russia is said to have signed a defence co-operation agreement with the Syrian operation. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is also not being briefed on this issue. Now, even in the Cyprus issue, Mr. Prime Minister appears, saying that he will not go to Geneva to negotiate, that the current presidential offer is the country's top priority. Dear lawmakers, the government has been working overtime since October 11, 2016 -- ninety-four days -- to bring legal dimensions to the lawless operational presidency. AKP and MHP groups couldn't make up the Constitution to the president, so let's make up the Constitution to the President. They're bringing up a freaky presidential project, which they're ashamed to mention openly.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0059par0037	Why should we be embarrassed? Is that a promise? The presidential system...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0058par0038	With such a freak on the agenda, Mr. President says that none of the problems and problems in the country have revealed that the exchange rate in Turkey has reached today's levels.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0059par0039	We don't do anything we're ashamed of.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0058par0040	He wants companies to invest more and produce more. Dear lawmakers, let's see what this freak means in terms of the producers and investors: the president will grant the investment and activities permit and incentives, the party president's tax controllers, social security inspectors, and the party president's owners have opposed me. In such a single man's regime, the lives of the people will be between the two lips of the president's property. Put your hand on your conscience, who will invest in a country with such a regime? Let me be very clear: this freakin' attempt to get all the power in front of us and lead us from democracy to dictatorship, and a referendum that will further increase political uncertainty, is nothing but to pour gasoline on the fire in the country. [[Applause from CHP rows]] On the other hand, do not be afraid to go to the nation. We've never been afraid of going to our nation, and we've always shown that we're not afraid of going to our nation, but when the country is ruled by a state of emergency, and the fear of increasing terror is being unleashed on citizens in front of all other needs, and it's increasing its direction towards power by depoliticizing our citizens, how are we going to make a constitutional change that should be a threat and prosecute even the slightest sound, while the media is under the real pressure and financial control of power, as social media are constantly subjecting and slowing down to social media -- the only place where the voices are being heard? In the present environment of oppression and information pollution, how will the public include it? How will the referendum be fair? How will national will be found in a healthy manner, my dear friends? When the road is near, withdraw this freaking presidential project that raises political uncertainty, raises polarization, turns terrorism on, drowns the economy, stop running the economy with the decrees of the State of Emergency law. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Avoid any indifferent minister or counselor expressing economic opinions. Instead of receiving the bride, the ah and the plague, choose to receive the blessing of the people. As I complete my words, I expect your support in our research motion, and once again I salute the General Assembly and our valued citizens who follow us.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0060par0049	Thank you very much, Mr. Oztrak. I'd love to extend your time, but...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0061par0050	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0062par0051	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0060par0052	I will, I promise. ...and my statement this morning, and it's not my personal position, but we can't extend it according to the agreement text we've made with all the congressional MPs. Mr. Akçay and Mr. Kerestecioğlu, I promise...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0063par0055	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0064par0056	Yeah. In his statement, the speaker used the declaration that they were ashamed to mention even the name of the presidential system in this new constitutional proposal. It's a terrible tease. I'd like a word in that regard.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0065par0058	Here, I'll give you two minutes without teasing. Mr. Timberboy, I'll listen to you later.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0066par0060	Mr. President, I'm in line.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0065par0061	Wait a second... Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0067par0065	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we are the National Movement Party. We don't get into anything we're ashamed of, we don't drink water, we don't drink water, we don't cross rotten bridges, we know how to take responsibility. You refrained from taking responsibility for yourself as the main opposition party, and you did not take initiative, and now you are giving criticism in a manner that I do not describe to Faik Bey. ▪ Do we have to name what we call the presidential system by taking references from outside or from someone? This system is a mixed system and we call it the presidency system. So maybe the only thing in the world... as far as I know, there's an Iranian presidency system in Iran.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0068par0067	One, one, one...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0069par0068	One dictatorship...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0067par0069	The presidential concept, as it has maintained the title, is also preserved, along with the republic's regime, as well as the President of the republic's regime. So, there's no word play here, no cover-up, no cover-up. If you call yourself the president, then so be it. The President of the Republic is already involved in the concept of the president. In our current Constitution, the president is the head of the state. Now he's saying the same thing. So there's nothing confusing about it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0070par0070	The decree?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0067par0071	But here's the thing: yesterday, Mr. Deniz Baykal said in his speech: I condemn the early voter, and if there is a congressman who will submit to the threat of election, I condemn him. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, please, I'm asking for an extension in a way I've never done.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0071par0074	Give him time, give him time, he speaks beautifully!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0072par0075	Well, I'll add a minute to this tease.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0073par0076	I thought we had a deal. What about the deal?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0072par0077	I'll treat the other groups the same way, the members of the group. Congressmans, I beg you, please stay out of our business.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0074par0078	If you had joined us, you would have done the same.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0072par0079	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0074par0080	Mr. Free Special, who was quoted by Mr. Kilicdaroğlu after Mr. Baykal, has also expressed his position. Now, a view has come out: Mr. Kilicdaroglu's exit has caused Baykal to lose meaning in the conversation he had just made five minutes ago.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0075par0081	You don't even understand him.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0074par0082	So Kılıçdaroğlu belied Baykal, and Baykal also condemned Kılıçdaroğlu with these words. (CHP rows) So this surprise also reflected to some of the MPs; last night, some of the MPs shared Deniz Baykal's reprimand message from social media, while others shared Mr. Free Special (Hodri)'s exit, which is the case. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0076par0085	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0077par0086	Which MP condemned Baykal? Which MP? How will those who do not understand Baykal understand the constitution?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0078par0087	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0076par0088	Wait a second, Mr. Bostanci, let's finish this discussion then. You and Kerestecioğlu have a say in the matter.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0079par0089	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0076par0090	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0079par0091	My dear colleague, he's got a lot of material. I mean, he's corporately taunting the Republican People's Party. What did he say? Without being responsible, it's initiative...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0076par0092	Come in, come in. I'll tell you the same thing...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0079par0093	Friends have their own personal stuff.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0080par0094	Mr. Altay, it's not a taunt, it's a criticism.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0079par0095	Criticism, but people don't get it that way, people don't get it that way.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0081par0096	Status check.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0080par0097	We don't tease CHP, we criticize.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0082par0098	Mr. Altay, I'll add two more minutes if it's not over. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0083par0101	Of course, I'm also trying to understand the state of mind that my dear colleague is in because in the November 1st election, during that time, Mr. President of the National Movement Party's understanding and approach to the parliamentary system is clear. On the other hand, what he said about the presidential system is also in our memories. So whether you call it the presidency, or the presidency, or the members of the ruling party have always said, "The presidential system" when this law is discussed, it doesn't mean anything. Now, what measure did you take in making these negotiations, and this offer will prevent Mr. Gardenli from bringing division and federation to the presidency, as he has already claimed? What kind of precautions did you take? Explain this sincerely to the representatives of the nation and to our great nation. Mr. Gardener, the presidency brings the federation. ▪ The presidency brings division, and all hell breaks loose. Now, what you're saying is, we don't say that, or this, we need this. When Mr. Gardener made this first exit, I said, "I will sign under the words of Mr. Bahçeli." Mr. Gardenli said: there's an illegality in the middle, there's an illegality, it's unacceptable. Mr. President, please return to the limits set by the Constitution. You're not going back after this attitude, it's a verb. E, let's find a cover for the actual situation created by Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Mr. Akçay, this council is not a cover. (CHP cheers) This is not the place to satisfy people's individual demands, political ambitions. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0084par0106	Yes, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0083par0107	This is a Parliament where Gazi Mustafa Kemal was asked to account for the sound of cannons coming here. This Parliament cannot be a parliament to kneel before Recep Tayyip Erdogan. (CHEERING) We never accept that. We took the initiative, and we said, "No doubt, we need a new constitution based on new fundamental rights and freedoms." However, there's nothing that can help you alone. You can't establish basic rights and freedoms in Turkey, no matter what you write to the Constitution after you have not first cleared Turkey of the coup law on September 12th. What I see is this: we are doing politics, Mr. President is setting it up here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] These people won't let you through. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0085par0113	Mr. President, Mr. Altay has endeavored to refer to us as the views that do not belong to us. Don't make fun of me.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0086par0114	Now, Mr. Akçay, Mr. Altay, let's not give all our friends and deputies any more trouble, especially when we're responding to a taunt. If you'd like, let's take care of the other taunts.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0085par0116	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to express myself on the stand.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0087par0117	Do you have any roughhousing?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0086par0118	Here, I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0088par0121	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute your honorary committee. Now, if anyone wants to, I've expressed at the beginning of my speech, you can also say the presidency, we can also say the presidency, or there are friends here from the Justice and Development Party who express it that way. However, the view of constitutional lawyers, who are the judges of the issue, who are well aware of these issues, states that this is not a presidential system, but that the presidential system brings other mechanisms. [Cheers and applause from CHP rows!]
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0089par0123	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0088par0124	That's what you'd call it if you looked into it. Participate, disagree, but Professor Kemal Eyeler's evaluations, for example, are in that direction, and he's critical, so even though he's critical... Dear friends, now, how did you take precautions?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0090par0126	You've got Burhan Lamb in you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0088par0127	This is a memorandum, which is presented to the Parliamentary General Assembly as a result of negotiations, and there is absolutely no such thing as a regime change. I certainly disagree with Mr. Altay's views. It's a parliamentary system, except it's not, and there's even some aspects of the law that have to be separated from the way it works. Now, the first four articles that define the basic attributes of the state are not even in question, and they can't be and they won't be. And the guarantee and guarantee of that is the National Movement Party. We think our friends, the Justice and Development Party, have largely given up on this, so we have to put it this way. Mr. Kilicdaroglu's statement that the first 2nd and 3rd amendments of the Constitution can be changed in the 24th period...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0091par0130	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0088par0131	There is, you can't say there isn't.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0091par0132	There's no such thing. Tell me how you were persuaded; how who convinced you? What happened, what changed Mr. Akçay; and what changed when the MHP became AKP-led?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0092par0133	Mr. Akçay, please complete.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0088par0134	Yeah, a lot's changed.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0091par0135	What's changed?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0088par0136	A lot's changed. You still haven't understood the conditions and atmospheres that have occurred since July 15th, so much has changed.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0093par0138	You've changed, you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0088par0139	We will sign the terms of autonomy by local governments. Who are those who say?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0094par0140	You're lying.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0088par0141	Those who strive to bring a number of proposals on the Constitutional Compromise Commission on the 2nd and 3th Articles are CHP members of the Constitutional Compromise Commission at the time.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0095par0142	You remove the first four articles, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0088par0143	Riza Turmen, Attila Kart and a constitutional lawyer Mr. Süheyl Batum have been expressed in the Compromise Commission.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0096par0144	You can't tell what you don't believe.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0088par0145	I don't think it's necessary to prolong these discussions, so I'd like to pay all your respects.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0096par0147	You don't believe it yourself.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0097par0148	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0098par0149	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0099par0150	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0097par0151	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0099par0152	You're welcome.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0097par0153	I will, just a second.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0099par0154	No, but let's finish it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0100par0155	Finish what?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0099par0156	Mr. President, you can't have rice without the soup. Let's finish the soup, we'll go to the rice.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0100par0157	We drank the soup, too.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0101par0158	Okay. Mr. Bostanci, let's finish the soup. But only if you promise to finish the soup, Mr. Altay. Here you go. I promise you in two minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0102par0162	Mr. Altay, let's not eat with soup, there's food.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0103par0163	Don't eat soup from the bottomless pot, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0101par0164	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0104par0166	I don't think it's right to make polemics with opposition parties in Parliament, but the National Movement Party is not an opposition party during these law talks, but if it has to be done for him. One: I read from the National Movement Party's election declaration: "We do not approve of the presidential, presidential, and similar systems." You just said, "We don't see this as the presidency." Almsah, all the ruling party's executives, their spokesman, are here to serve as president, and they're leaving with the presidency.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0105par0168	That was before.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0104par0169	Your issue is an account for the honorable voters who voted for your National Movement Party, which is none of my business. Mr. Kilicdaroğlu's first 3 articles of the Constitution are changed. Sometimes he uses the word "friends" a lot.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0105par0171	Two and three.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0104par0172	Everything we say is clear and clear. The last time I told you, Kemal Kilicdaroglu took the Constitution and read the first four articles in his hand at the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges Congress in Turkey and at various meetings, and he made a hundred speeches saying, "This cannot be changed while we are here, brother." I don't understand if you don't understand. But the circumstances have changed since July 15th, and your claim is correct. The conditions changed after July 15th, we defied a military coup, and you, together, four political parties, 80 million of our citizens, defied a military coup. Now, part of Parliament is trying to turn this coup into a civil coup. What circumstances have changed? Yesterday, Mr. Bulent Tezcan asked a question here. Doesn't that hurt you? The people that you work with are alleged to be people who work together, and there's nothing from the government on this matter.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0106par0173	You will reveal his name. You're going to explain that name. If you have the heart, you will explain it, if you have the heart.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0104par0174	What kind of politics is that? I don't know. You give your own account to the base, I'm not saying anything. But, I mean, I don't know what they say, he's more king than king. They say, "Don't jump in the pot before meat." They say...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0107par0176	Finish it, please. We're done.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0104par0177	I find it difficult to understand the nationalist Movement Party's position in a landscape where 100 per cent of the bidders have come out and not properly defended or developed a defence mechanism just by Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. As my politician, I don't understand it. There's nothing more normal than saying it. You don't have to tell me. I hope and hope that you can explain this attitude to the nationalist movement party's base, to the ulterior community, and I hope you can, and I hope you won't have any difficulty. I don't know if you've ever read the terms of autonomy. Under the autonomy clause, what Turkey puts in a recession can be seen if it is read or not.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0108par0179	It's in the AKP's programme, Mr. President. It's in the AKP's programme for autonomy.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0104par0180	I don't see why the contents of this pull were made to look like a bogeyman, and I don't see why. I've read it, there's no clause there that will cause Turkey to divide, but this bill will divide Turkey. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0109par0183	No one can divide Turkey.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0104par0184	That's what I think.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0110par0185	Mr. President, there's an open taunt.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0104par0186	Of course I did.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0110par0187	We have to answer that.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0111par0188	Mr. Akçay, this soup seems to be taking a lot of water. Please, we have to put this together somewhere. Look, Mr. Bostanci is still demanding words, Mr. Kerestecioğlu had a demand for words.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0110par0189	And I don't want to keep it hot, but it's an open tease.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0111par0190	I beg you, I will no longer extend my deadline, so please wrap it up in two minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0112par0191	Mr. President, if he picks on me, I want word, in advance.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0111par0192	I guess we'll just have to decide whether or not we can handle it together, and we'll see what we can do about it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0113par0193	I don't think I have the right to answer to his name-calling...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0111par0194	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0114par0196	Of course, I don't think we should consider it a tease, it's an idea. But if there are heavy statements...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0115par0197	Like what?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0114par0198	Here you are, working together. Like that, you cooperated together. Why use harsh expressions when you can say "Ltai?"
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0115par0199	I'm so sorry, right, correcting it, Mr. President, I'm correcting you as a business partner.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0114par0200	Okay, thank you. Now, we have to take it that way. Now, dear friends, Mr. Altay, these are the people who cooperated, and no one else has to explain them. Mr. Kilicdaroglu, known as Mr. Kilicdaroglu, is arrested for chief counseling, and then Mr. Kilicdaroglu was helping us with some political development activities with some of our statements in the elections. He is a competent friend." Not with caution, but with praise. Well, now, that might happen, because that's what I meant when I said that the events that happened after July 15th, it's important to understand, to understand, to understand the atmosphere in Turkey. That's what I meant when I brought a review. Turkey, our country, needs a serious cleansing. As of July 14th, there is no way we can go; we are facing great dangers from the inside and from the outside. Furthermore, it is extremely wrong to conduct this discussion by focusing on individuals. Mr. Erdogan, I don't find it right to engage in a false argument by focusing on him. Dear friends, we need to present as opposition parties: I have said the same thing to all foreign delegations who arrived after July 15th and to foreign lawmakers: we are an opposition party as the National Movement Party. The Justice and Development Party, the ruling and Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, are our political rivals, but not our enemies. [[(Bravo) voices, applause, from the MHP and the AK PARTY]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's how we're supposed to express it, and arguing over individuals leads us to the wrong places. In constitutional amendments, constitutional lawyers have to look at constitutional proposals from two angles. It says: A good reason, a bad reason.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0116par0206	Thank you, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0114par0207	The good reason is to try to make an adjustment through the system, and the bad reason is to try to reason with people, and unfortunately, it's a bad reason to do these criticisms through individuals, through individuals. My respects to all of you. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Besides, I don't want you to look out for the nationalist movement base...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0117par0211	Mr. Akçay, thank you. Please let's finish.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0114par0212	...I'm amazed, but I know from the messages that we've received, we see very well the messages of Republican People's Party members, who have taken the role of MHP/ian or archipelago. So we have our nationalist movement base and our archipelago brothers with us. Of course we support them and support them. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0118par0215	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0119par0216	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0120par0217	It's our turn, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0118par0218	I mean, it's a very short correction, but I've got to fix this. I've got to file a report.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0120par0219	Mr. President, we never spoke. Okay?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0118par0220	Don't get in the way. Wait a minute, let me finish.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0120par0221	I mean, all the time...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0121par0222	Mr. Botanci, I can't hear you. The soup is not finished, as Mr. Altay put it. All right, let's get it over with in a minute. Mr. Private also has a request for a statement. Let's give it to Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0122par0227	Let me finish this thing. Private is special, private is special. Mr. President, I'm withdrawing the statement that you've just been engaged in with the AKP, which I used to use for the National Movement Party. I demand that it be corrected as your co-operation with the AKP.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0123par0229	You could say it's in the Constitutional Talks.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0124par0230	It's for constitutional negotiations.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0122par0231	On the other hand, Mr. Akçay said not to download it to people. He told our president that a friend who used to consult for a semester was a by Lock. Maybe. When this first came out, I said, mathematically, there's no way that it wasn't leaked to us. Maybe, when you look at it mathematically. But if there's a thousand here, there's five here, there's five here, there's 25 there.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0125par0232	How do you know?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0122par0233	This is the general picture of society, this is the political picture.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0126par0234	Mr. Altay, please, when you're making a correction...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0122par0235	I've fixed it, but you're not going to mess with people...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0126par0237	What makes you say that?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0122par0238	Mr. President, I said this for this reason: where is this political foot? It is the honor of this Assembly to remove its political foot. If you don't, we will.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0127par0239	Mr. Altay, let go of these feet, these feet.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0122par0240	You're a singer, too?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0128par0241	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0129par0242	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0128par0243	Mr. Bostanci, please, I promise to tease you, too.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0130par0247	Mr. President, dear friends, here yesterday, Mr. Bulent, Vice President of the CHP, made a claim.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0131par0248	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0130par0249	And I said, "There's a moral obligation to a person who makes a claim like that." The future will tell us the name of that person. Mr. Bulent couldn't tell me. I'd wait for Mr. Engin to tell me. She couldn't tell me either. Look, the AK PARTY has 14 vice presidents. A vice president... if he has a document...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0131par0251	There's, there's...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0130par0252	If you've read his name, come and tell me. You're gonna tell me!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0131par0253	I'll tell you, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0130par0254	You're gonna say it, you're gonna come in and tell me your name. We'll see if it's true or not. These things don't happen by assumption. You don't do math like that. With the law, with the law.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0132par0255	There's a code number. Go find it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0133par0256	There's a file number, a file number. Bring out our lie.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0130par0257	Secondly, Mr. Faik Oztrak says we're doing a shameful job here. Embarrassment is done by being overlooked by the public.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0133par0258	There's a file number. Bring the document, the file.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0130par0259	This is being discussed in parliament, and the public will decide if it goes before the people with a vote of more than 330. Embarrassing is the job of covering up this reality when it's being discussed and discussed in public. That's a shame. The other thing, Mr. Altay, is that your ears can hear certain words and you can read and write, can't your eyes read the proposal?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0134par0261	No... no...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0130par0262	What does it say? Doesn't it say the presidential system or can't you read it?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0134par0263	No, I can't read.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0130par0265	Can't you read?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0134par0266	I can't read.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0130par0268	People from CHP can read for you. The system is named: the presidential system. The government is literally property. But the presidency means president of the people, which means your name is Republican People's Party. My respects.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0135par0272	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0136par0273	Mr. Bostanci, our Vice President... Mayor, my voice is low, so if I could just...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0135par0275	You guys have quite a voice, actually. In the microphone...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0136par0276	Thanks to you. Since you didn't open this place, look at my voice right now...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0135par0277	If you talk that much, it'll go away. Let's not talk so much, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0136par0278	Mr. Bostanci, our vice president, Bulent Tezcan, has said that we have not fulfilled our moral obligations by giving my name, sir. I demand word on that.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0137par0279	I said bring it. Tell me his name, bring him in.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0136par0280	We did. I mean, what did everybody get? He said we didn't fulfill our moral obligations, so I demand word.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0138par0282	Mr. Altay, Mr. Bostanci, why don't you talk about this in a tea conversation?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0136par0283	But you can't not answer that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0138par0284	Please, let's not keep the General Assembly too busy. Look, we're still not discussing the agenda.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0136par0285	But, Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0138par0286	Please, I beg you, if this goes on, I'm going to have to take a break, I'd like to remind you. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0136par0289	Now, the moral obligation is to try to change the Constitution here after the coup of July 15th, with many poor people, victims, victims, prisoners, and those who make them their predecessors and refer to them. Now, Mr. Bostanci, you've thrown a lot of poor people from the terrorist organization into prison. The poor people led the Justice and Development Party there, and he said: "We gave the state to them. If you're going to be the attorney general, you're going to be the governor, you're going to be the judge, you're going to be the judge, you're going to go here, you're going to make money, you're going to go here. I'll pass on that.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0139par0290	We didn't.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0136par0291	You didn't say it, Osman, we know you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0139par0292	We didn't.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0136par0293	Osman, you're certainly not an expert. [[Applause from CHP rows]] What did Bulent Tezcan say yesterday? Bulent Tezcan said yesterday, "Let everyone write, who can write: No. 563,189." Lu document.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0140par0296	Explain, explain.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0136par0297	We'll explain. I would have expected... that at the point of relationship between MIT Prime Minister and Prime Minister, Mr. Interior Minister's relations were more intense, and he himself was here yesterday, can't it be done: What is this, brother, 563.189? 563.189... 563.189 and interest Minister of Interior Bulent Tezcana, you're a villain, you're a scoundrel. 563.189. That's the document. He says, we drop our necks on the ground. [[From the CHP rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] Now, we're doing politics here, not playing steel sticks. If you don't show this document to our beloved nation by tomorrow, you're all members.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0141par0302	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0142par0303	Mr. Bostanci, I beg you. I said I'd give my word to Mr. Special about the bullying. Mr. Special, please finish in two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0143par0308	Thank you, Mr. President. We won't be picking on Mr. Akçay, but we can negotiate in different opinions as two members of the same district. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] But I have to say, Mr. Baykal here yesterday that a opposition party is completely against its own vote, that it will result in the division of the country, that it will bring a federation, that it will, whether it is the presidency of the party or the presidency of the party, that it has made it clear to the election statement, that it will now change its mind and then condemn the fact that it has threatened its MPs with early elections, whether it fails or not. We, as a Main Opposition Party, are always ready to vote in today's conjunctive, ten times as ready today.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0144par0313	A defeated wrestler won't be satisfied with wrestling.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0143par0314	Under the circumstances, there is an ethical debate: You didn't get the authority from your constituent to sign under a system you were against that day in the election, to support it here.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0145par0315	There was no Shahkulu Rebellion at the time, then there was no coup, then the House was not bombed.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0143par0316	When that was the case, the Justice and Development Party made a public stand by the CHP, saying, "Will an opposition party run away from the election?"
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0146par0317	Why didn't you put it in five minutes ago? You should've told me before. Ten minutes and you're in gear.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0143par0318	The text is in the middle, you go to the early election, you go to the early election, you go to the election -- the choice is now what you say yes to -- and in these conditions your constituent sends you here, send you into space, we all see it together.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0147par0320	Don't be afraid of the people, don't be afraid of the people...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0146par0321	Look at you, look at the reputation you've lost.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0143par0322	It's because you're trying to use a power that you didn't get from your constituent here, our reaction and a regime change, a trust that hasn't been taken, a party that's being held over an unregistered power of attorney...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0148par0324	I'm not. I told you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0143par0325	You gave it to everyone.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0148par0326	I didn't give it to everyone. No, I didn't extend it to Mr. Bostanci, Mr. Altay and Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0149par0327	He didn't give me a break.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0143par0328	No, wait a minute...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0148par0329	No, no, I'm not, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0149par0330	He didn't pass it to me, Mr. Free.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0143par0331	You gave it to everyone.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0148par0332	In the same way, I acted equally. I didn't extend it to Mr. Altay and Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0143par0333	Then let me finish my last words...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0150par0334	Occupy the bench, invade; embrace the bench.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0143par0335	Let my dear Erkan Akçay know that this issue he calls the autonomy requirement is the 25th, 30th, or the 31st amendment of the 2011 election declaration of the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0150par0336	Where are they now?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0143par0337	I don't want to hear about their partnerships, their partnerships...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0151par0338	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0150par0339	And you're gonna be the wheel.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0152par0340	You read it wrong, it's wrong.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0153par0341	Wait a minute, wait a minute, it's not that easy, wait a minute... now...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0154par0342	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0155par0343	Just leave the podium alone.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0153par0344	Mr. President, if you give me a minute, I won't be tired, and neither will you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0156par0345	Call him, call him...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0155par0346	There's no such thing. There's no such thing as language.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0157par0347	No, we do it the way we do it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0158par0348	Let us know this: Ahmet Goimya goes to a two-party system. He says, Burhan Lamb says that a party called MHP will now be destroyed...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0155par0350	Get out of here! You don't know the world.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0157par0351	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0158par0352	Mustafa Sentop says this system has a very good presidential system.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0157par0353	Dear Private, please...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0158par0354	My final word, Mr. President. The Justice and Development Party takes out those who grow stronger within themselves...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0159par0356	Tell me, tell me. Go for the base, go for the base.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0158par0357	He's taking in what's out there. First he took the Democratic Party, then he swallowed the H.S. Party...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0160par0359	Dear Private, please...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0161par0360	Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit02spe0160par0361	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our discussion of the Republican People's Party group proposal. I promise Mr. Kerestecioğlu for two minutes at his place. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0162par0007	Mr. President, in the previous session, we've had a motion for disabled citizens, and we've had a roll call here, and as you can see, MPs from the main opposition party have been removed. It was treated as if it were a shameful thing or something to be blamed for.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0008	No, they can finish it, it's fine.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0162par0009	No, I want to say something else. Now, our 11 MPs are under arrest, as you know, and they have the right to continue their legislative activity. So we actually need to be in the polls and in the roll call, especially with nine people at the time of the detection of this number. I'd like to open up a legal debate about this, and I'd like to talk about the procedure.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0011	What are you going to argue about?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0162par0012	I'd like to talk about the procedure according to 63. Nine of us can take attendance because 11 of our MPs are under arrest; either you have to figure out a way to get them to conduct their legislative activity here, or we can actually ask for roll call here as nine people. I'd like to open up a legal debate about this.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0013	Mr. Kerestecioğlu, this is about me, not about my attitude, it's against the Civil Code. In what ways, therefore, the discussion of the rules of procedure is above the name - and in what ways it will be determined. On this matter, I beg you, don't insist, I can't discuss the procedure.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0162par0014	You said he wouldn't be with 18 people. After all, according to Article 63...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0015	Mr. Kerestecioğlu has not been 18 people, his friends from the Republican People's Party have stood up and completed it for 20.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0163par0016	You said no. You said no.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0017	I said no, according to what? I'm not saying it's in accordance with the Civil Code, it's looking for 20 people.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0163par0018	So, according to the Civil Code, we say...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0019	I certainly can't discuss the procedure in this case. That would be a violation of the rules, a violation of the Civil Code. My Civil Code...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0164par0020	It's about that, but there's no need...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0021	Now, look, I promised you guys your place, and you can talk, but if there really was anything I could do about the procedure debate, I wouldn't have bothered to bring it up. Please, let's not go on about this, because I can't have a conversation about this.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0164par0022	Turn on my mic.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0023	We're opening.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0164par0024	Now, in 63, he says it's given when demand is made, so you have a need for...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0025	No, that's what it's about, but it also says where it's at.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0164par0026	Yeah, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0027	Yes, you're inviting the president on the agenda? Are you inviting us on the agenda? It's not. Anyway, we're just processing it so we can get to the bottom of this.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0165par0029	That's the agenda, Mr. President, isn't it?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0030	We're already doing the work procedures, completed by 20 people on the side, inviting us to comply with the working procedures of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0166par0031	No, it's just the way it works...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0032	There are 18 of you in attendance or 11 of you... the Civil Code has a warrant, and 20 people are wanted. This is not something we, the legislature, the Council of Parliament, can do. So please, I beg you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, about this...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0166par0034	Now, can't there be a solution to how the lawmakers, who have the right to conduct law enforcement activities in the process of working out, will be present here? That's what I'm talking about.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0035	Well, is there any way I can do that?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0166par0036	No, about that...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0037	How do I act against it?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0166par0038	No, I'd like to discuss it in a manner of speaking.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0039	Mr. Kerestecioğlu, please... Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0167par0041	No, what do you mean?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0168par0042	You can't deny it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0043	I can't really open up a legal debate about this, I mean sincere, or I will. But, it's all about the Civil Code, and it's an abuse of a right, which I can't possibly cause. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0168par0045	Mr. President, I'd like to file a report...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0046	Congressmans, now, the Republican People's Party proposal...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0168par0047	The abuse of one right is that 11 MPs are under arrest.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0048	...the second word against you, Samsun MP...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0168par0049	You don't even have the decency to listen.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0050	I've been listening to you for a while. Don't mention it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0168par0051	No, how many times have you extended a minute, a minute, and then you said...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0052	I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0168par0053	I'm going to extend the word of the vice president of the group.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0054	I gave you two minutes, and you talked like that for two minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0168par0055	You gave Mr. Akçay more than two minutes, and then when he was on the stand...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0056	And I gave you, and I gave you, and I gave you, according to 60, one minute, two minutes, and you spoke standing for two minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0168par0057	You've given me more than two minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0058	Now, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, look, let's not confuse, you've been promised according to 60.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0168par0059	Besides, I'm talking here and you're not even listening.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0060	I've listened, I've given my answer.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0168par0061	And I want my word to go out.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0160par0062	All right, pass it on.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0168par0063	It's against the general rules here that 11 of our MPs are under arrest. Legislative activities must be maintained, which cannot be achieved.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0169par0064	I mean, that's not gonna happen. That's not gonna happen. That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0170par0065	Miss Flitz, where are the scenes on the stand?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0168par0066	Something about that, especially if they can't vote here, it's also against that.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0170par0067	You've got 48 deputies out there, add them, and they'll come.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0171par0068	What do we do? If the men die, will we bring them back to life?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0172par0069	It's on the record, Mr. Kerestecioglu.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0173par0070	This needs to be arranged.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0172par0071	Thank you. It's on the record.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0174par0072	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0172par0073	Mr. Akçay, I'll give you a minute according to 60.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0174par0075	I'd like to point out that we've signed this constitutional amendment proposal to the presidential system we're up against: it's absolutely not true, it's unacceptable. In our election declaration, as we have made clear in our election declarations, and considering the latest election, some political parties and factions in the 24th term, even in the 23rd term, had also brought their own proposals, some of their proposals for this presidential system. In this framework, we have expressed opposition to such views in the 24th term, the first 4 articles of the Constitution, to the basic attributes of the state, and to what they call the presidential system. Besides, again, we're repeating our views, and the election declarations are also... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that the parties have committed to when they came to power. Taking into consideration this, the common agreement reached during negotiations and negotiations with other political parties is also needed in a separate category. The National Movement Party continues to maintain the same line and opinion. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0175par0079	Thank you. Now, the first word against the proposal...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0176par0081	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0177par0082	Yeah, it's... it's not a tease, it's nothing.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0176par0083	Now, just...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0178par0084	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0176par0085	Same size, sir. I mean, why isn't it my right? It's on the same page. He answered what I said.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0179par0086	In fact, it's an immoral...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0180par0087	I mean, do I have to change my mind? You don't want me to say my opinion? For God's sake!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0181par0088	Well, Mr. Special, we haven't been able to make an agenda. You did, look, before this session... If you want, I'll give you my word in a little while. I've just invited Mr. Erhan to the stand because he is Mr. Erhan.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0182par0090	All right, all right.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0181par0091	Thank you for your concern, your sensitivity, Mr. Special. Mr. Master, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0183par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, today's group proposal is about the balance of payments, and it's about a sub pen. But there's been some controversy, and I'd like to say a few words about them. For once, when you look at the nationalist movement party's truly party policies, documents, actions, practices, you'll see that this movement has not been broken in its forty-eight-year history, it has a conscience, it has a mercy, you have to make that determination once and for all. The nationalist Movement Party's view of the fundamental issues is also focused on the national interest of the nation. Our main motto is my country and my nation, then my party and me. The National Movement Party has always taken initiative in critical times, and has acted in a way that paves the way for the country. Of course, sometimes when you're doing that, maybe you're getting close to a political party in some sense, or you're cooperating with it, whatever you call it, that kind of thing might have happened. In another case, the country's interests may have happened in the same position as another party's position, of course, but what's important here is the nationalist movement party's own line, and there's no breaking in that line. If there's another political party approaching that line, you're closing in on us, but I can't say I'm going to run any further, it can't be, it doesn't make sense. Of course, we would like all political parties to come to our political line, to make a policy for the greater good of the country. Some get away from it, some get closer, that's the way to see it. Now, of course, we need to see now that there's nothing to be done in this country under duress. So these impositions are based on the 367 constraints that we're actually discussing today. So when it's 367, it can't be elected president. It's an imposition in Parliament. It's not an imposition, it's a violation, it's a violation of the law. At the point where it's entered, let's solve this, and let's let the president choose a citizen. It's been said. After choosing a citizen, the country is dragged to a point, saying, "Let him go here, let him go here." Those who impose 367... I mean, if there's politics in Turkey without seeing a step ahead, they'll have to put up with it, this country, it'll have to see. Now, Turkey needs to analyze its issues and its situation. So in a sense, everything is burning down, falling down, and here's the coup, the biggest betrayal this country has ever seen. If everyone accepts this, it's a part of us that, of course, has to change our behavior, a part of us has to change our positions. I mean, even so, I'm still going to have to act like this. Can you say that? But the principle will not change; the principle is in the interests of the nationalist movement party, my friend. Once you're in line with this principle, you can do some tactical things, of course you can change some of your policies. It's supposed to be perfectly normal.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0184par0103	Do you claim to be sincere? Are they sincere?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0183par0104	Now, my particular call here to the Republican People's Party is that we're really crying, so they think so much of us that your concerns about our base make us weep.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0185par0105	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0183par0106	So let's not worry too much, we do politics at separate parties.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0185par0107	The door to a 48-year-old party will be locked because of your mistake.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0183par0108	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0185par0109	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0186par0110	Let's not interfere, Mr. Eater, please. Your spokesman will answer if necessary, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0187par0111	Shut up! Stop talking! Shame on you! Enough, enough! Look, you're provocation, you're provocation.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0188par0112	I mean, these are really non-interceptive expressions. An analysis of this, please, someone come and do it. I mean, beyond just being a slogan, you have to talk about things. I mean, if we had the time, I'd like to get into the other stuff, the boring stuff, and I don't want to spend all my time on it. So, I'm telling you this honestly, there's no actual lining to what you're saying. In these circumstances, I would argue that the nationalist Movement Party's candidate will either become president as the 1st party, or whoever wants to become a republican party in this country from now on, the central party will be condemned to the National Movement Party. So, after that, the National Movement Party is either power or a partner in power. That's the way to see it. And that's not why we're doing this. Friends, the country needs it. The job's blocked, so we need to solve this blockage.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0189par0113	Powers alone. Oh, come on, come on.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0188par0114	There's no way to understand that those who don't see certain issues when they're blocking it, are in such delusions when this obstruction is resolved. Now, is this something that the Republican People's Party has brought out of the game, which is impossible to understand. Especially my call, don't try to come between us and our base, our constituent. That's not very politically appropriate. We can say a lot of things about you from here, too. Ey, CHP's national, holy, Ataturkçı base, they don't hang the Turkish flag in Hakkari, they raise the posters of Apo Turk, and the posters of Ataturk. After that, I don't know, I don't know... They're going to the terrorist funeral. After that, Mr. Kilicdaroğlu has a lot of statements. But, you know, it's not politics, so it's not proper politics, so...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0190par0116	You're negotiating with those who negotiate in Oslo.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0188par0117	And let me tell you something else: if you look at things a little more analytic, you'll be able to see how much what the Nationalist Movement Party is actually doing is in the best interest of the country and how accurate it is for its own line. The National Movement Party had four basic principles, conditions, in the June 7th elections. Friends, at the moment we're here today, three of these four conditions have happened and are happening. One is that we can't take a step at this time regarding our sensitivity to 17-25. If a proper, decent system is established in this country -- those claims made there that day are true, wrong -- and if we can provide the establishment of a legal system to judge it on this occasion, then 4 of the four conditions of the National Movement Party have been fulfilled. Why wouldn't the National Movement Party be in this thing now? For this reason, in the circumstances of that day, we have been good to you. We have been good to our principles. Those who met with the Justice and Development Party for thirty-three days without any principles on that day, please be more careful when they speak. Anyway... And I'll tell you this: in no phase of history, when they were not a congregation, when they were not a parallel to Master Hodja, when the Nationalist Movement Party had nothing to do with this movement -- no one at all -- had anything to do with it. Mr. Engin Altay said something statistically: If we have five, you will never be able to accept it. I don't know how much you have, but we don't. In the National Movement Party, there are no people, there are no residents.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0191par0122	There's one there.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0188par0123	And about the National Movement Party... Look, while everyone in this country is in warm relations with Fetullah Gulen, the leader of the National Movement Party has warned you and the country. You can't ignore them. Got to be fair. When you're doing politics, it's a little bit of an adjustment. And finally, Mr. Engin Altay's apology later doesn't change anything. I mean, that's not a politically appropriate statement, Mr. Engin Altay, not really. Then they'll ask you in 1977 about Cahit Karakaş, about that day's congestion. Look, the country's on fire, guys, we all remember 1977, the older ones remember more. On that day, the nationalist Movement Party was able to overcome that blockage by supporting the Republican People's Party candidate for Parliament. Can this be used now by an expression called keeping a job? What a heavy, ugly thing. After that, we didn't act together at the 2010 referendum, but maybe we shared the same views. Is this keeping a job? We supported the same candidate in the presidential election. Is it such an ugly thing to call a job? Does it suit the politicians of such a long-standing party? We need to be a little more careful around here, we need to be more responsible. Now, the boring thing is, actually, we'd be doing a much better job of discussing it. I mean, there's nothing going on in this country in this kind of environment. I mean, what we just did, me and, of course, has nothing to do with the criticism that made me have to have this conversation, all that teasing, anything to bring back to this country. Now, I'm going to say that we have January-November 2016 numbers. It's true, there's a serious net error pen, but it's $9.6 billion, so let me put it this way: $9.6 billion of the $28.6 billion account deficit is covered by a clear error. In my earlier assessments, financing the balance of payments with a net error pen is not really a healthy financing. I agree with these criticisms. But it's also a technical error to describe it all as an anonymous cash intake, the whole node, when we don't discuss the detail. I've expressed that myself from time to time. However, there are three elements here that are clearly lacking, you have to see that. First, it's a measurement error. So, you may have made a mistake in measuring some of your exports, imports, tourism, or, you know, on the service side or on the trade side, a net error that comes from that, because the net error is missing, the remainder is the balance, so that's how the system works. Of course, when we look from here, let's say the net error of $9.6 billion is all due to a measurement error, then we have to say that what we're saying today is not $28.6 billion, it's more than that. Of course, it's impossible to say that that's where it all came from. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Not for a very short time, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0192par0129	No.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0188par0130	Okay, but just in case it helps...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0192par0131	That's how I explained it this morning. Please... thank you, Master.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0188par0132	There are two other elements of net error. The other is the dissolution under the pillow and the escape under the pillow. Look, this is important. So, if there's some underlying money going into the system, that's a clear mistake. So it would be a bit wrong to express the source in terms of uncertain money. And thirdly, it's really anonymous money, so someone's bringing money into the country with a suitcase, or they're making money, which affects the obvious mistake.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0192par0134	Thank you, Master.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0188par0135	I pay my respects, thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0193par0137	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0192par0138	Yes, Mr. Altay, I'm listening. Do you want me to give you a minute of your position according to 60, or...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0193par0140	No, no, no. Mr. President responds to criticism and tells our group, our party, that our party doesn't deserve...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0192par0142	Here you go. I'll give you two minutes for bullying. Please, let's not afford another tease. I mean, it'd be great if we could talk before the critics turn it into a tease.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0145	Of course.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0192par0146	And not every critique is a tease. We have to respect each other, but... Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0150	Thank you. Mr. President, it's a very common concept in politics... that there's nothing bad about it. You're obviously upset with the cooperation. Besides, why are you upset? You're obviously cooperating. Sir, in the past, for Cait Karakaş, the parties will cooperate. Parties must cooperate.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0195par0152	What are we doing?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0153	There's nothing wrong with that.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0196par0154	We don't get jobs.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0155	Yeah, don't get a job. If your mind is elsewhere, I'll be damned.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0197par0156	Your mind is elsewhere.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0157	Don't get involved, it's the same thing, brother.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0198par0158	Mr. Engin, does it look good on you? Does it look good on you?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0159	Yeah, you didn't cooperate?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0198par0160	Why do you use that word when you have the word "co-operation"?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0161	Yeah, I don't know why you're so distracted.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0198par0162	I don't know who's mind is...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0163	In our political language, there is a job in politics. What should I do if you can think of something else? Anyway, it's not for you to interpret, or express, the president of the Diyarbakır Bar as a terrorist.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0199par0165	Who? When?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0166	You said here that the Tahir Ambassador is a terrorist.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0199par0167	When did we say?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0168	Because...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0199par0169	Says who? When did he say that?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0170	Mr. President just told me.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0200par0171	Did I say that?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0172	Look, let me explain how you said it. You can't just say everything.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0201par0173	Are you psychic?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0174	Sometimes it's said, sometimes it's said.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0202par0175	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0176	Now, let everyone know that the Republican People's Party has been a party that has described PKK as a vicious, low terrorist organization since it happened. In the Republican People's Party, no MP has ever been to a terrorist funeral except at the funeral of our Diyarbakır Bar President Tahir Evlu.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0203par0178	Come on, who are you kidding?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0179	It's the bastard who's gone, that's all, and I'm not saying the other one. Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0203par0180	Who are you kidding?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0181	Shame on you! Shame on you! Don't feed on blood. What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0204par0182	Oh, where'd he come from?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0183	It's no one's place to associate the Republican People's Party with terrorism, and there's no way that anyone can move forward in this matter. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We know who's associated with terrorism, who's fed.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0205par0186	Pass them, pass them.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0187	What a shame! Who went to the terrorist funeral?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0206par0188	Please, lawmakers, let's not talk in person.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0189	Who went to the terrorist funeral?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0207par0190	Sit down!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0206par0191	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0192	Shame on you! Whatever you have to say, whatever you have to say, come out here and say it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0208par0194	You must be out of capital...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0206par0195	Congressmans, I beg you... please...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0196	The Republican People's Party has never regretted anything they did.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0206par0197	Please... please...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0198	What a shame!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0209par0199	Tell me, how did we feed on terrorism? Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0210par0200	Shame on you! You're the president of the group.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0201	I'll tell you...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0211par0202	Just a second... you take your seat. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0203	I've told you before.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0211par0204	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0194par0205	At a martyr's funeral, this movement is feeding on terror, and this movement is feeding on terrorism.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0212par0207	Pass it, pass it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0213par0208	Well, let's not let Kilicdaroglu do it. Shouldn't we go to martyr funerals?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0214par0209	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0215par0210	Mr. Master...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0214par0211	Tahir said that I had declared him a terrorist.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0215par0212	Here, I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0216par0213	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0217par0214	Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0215par0215	Congressmans, I beg you, look, I've invited Mr. Ustah to the stand.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0216par0216	Shame on you! You're not ashamed...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0217par0217	Shame on you! Shame on you! It's amazing! That's enough! We shut up, we shut up...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0215par0218	Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0218par0220	Now, of course, your words should be the same when you do politics.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0217par0221	It has to be the same, very true.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0218par0222	So, you tell the PKK that you're a traitor, a terrorist organization...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0217par0223	Yeah...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0218par0224	But, I mean, if you don't show this in your practices with the PKK...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0217par0225	What do you mean? What kind of accusation is that?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0218par0226	...you have to put up with these criticisms, yes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0219par0228	There, there.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0218par0229	We've done our reviews of that place in time. So you're gonna have to put up with it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0220par0231	Look over there, over there.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0218par0232	You'll put up with it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0221par0233	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0218par0234	The National Movement Party... so, Hakkari, to speak separately and to speak separately and to do something else, not politics.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0222par0235	There they are, there they are...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0218par0236	The People's Movement Party has held a rally in Diyarbakır, has spoken the same in İstanbul, and Adana has spoken the same in Diyarbakır. That's not how politics works.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0223par0237	There are those who negotiate with the Imran.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0218par0238	I don't even want to answer that.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0224par0239	Look, you're with the people who are with the PKK.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0218par0240	The National Movement Party is a party in this country to avoid bloodshed. Everyone in this country knows who's bleeding, who's acting, and who's fighting, so there's no need to say that.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0225par0241	Their support for those who bleed is obvious.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0226par0242	He doesn't count his groups, his groups.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0218par0243	I mean, it's obvious what we went through two days ago in the House. (MHP and AK PARTY) So that's not the kind of expression that's appropriate for people to feed on blood, or something like that. So we're going to be consistent in politics, friends, so we're going to be consistent. [HPP rows ίBravo (!) Their voices, applause (!)
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0227par0245	That's right, that's right, bravo
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0218par0247	And I suggest that you really see the point where a party, which is the party of Ataturk, which has formed the republic, has come, especially this way.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0228par0249	Don't talk to the AKP.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0218par0250	You have a lot of patriotic people in you, but you have to see it well. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0228par0253	Look, those who are with the PKK are applauding you. Those who are with him applaud you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0229par0254	Yeah, we'll give you a round of applause. Now, what are we supposed to do, not applaud? You're a lawyer, what's in it for me? So I applauded you, and that's my point?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0230par0255	Congressmans, I'm listening to Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0231par0256	Without any concrete indications, without any concrete evidence, our terrorist organization has come to terms with the PKK...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0230par0257	Here you go, Mr. Altay. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0232par0259	We weren't there together, they sat down, what are you doing?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0233par0260	Oh, my God! What kind of example is that, brother? That's right, I applauded. I applauded you yesterday.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0232par0261	They're responsible for the 15th of July.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0233par0262	We'll ask for it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0232par0263	Inshallah!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0234par0264	Please, lawmakers, let's finish this polemic. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0235par0267	I see the National Movement Party today in a rush of great guilt; there's no need for that, there's no need for that. Mr. Bahçeli has taken this constitutional amendment proposal harder than Mr. Bululi Yıldırım. He's been attending the General Assembly for five days now, and I respect that...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0236par0268	That's his seriousness.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0235par0269	But for that, there's no need for guilt.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0237par0271	Come on! No one's in a guilty state.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0236par0272	We didn't punch, we're comfortable. The punchers are in a hurry.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0235par0273	You make a decision in politics, take risks, suffer the consequences. As for the PKK issue: Terror has specific goals. One of the aims of terrorism is camping in the country, polarizing, feeding from here...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0236par0275	Get over them, get over them, don't be a theorist.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0235par0276	And unfortunately, whatever this PKK is, it's the only, not the last, not the last, never to show Turkey any more blood, tears, but the only political, president of the CHP who was actually attacked by rocket or bullet was the CHP's president.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0236par0278	The armored car was given to him.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0235par0279	I don't want it to happen to you, not to the ruling party, not to our citizens, not to our soldiers, not to our police, not to our bodyguards, but while you're at it, you can't go out and consolidate the nationalist base in your own way, but you can't do this with the people who put nationalism under the table when you're consolidating the nationalist base. When you go to Dimyat, you'll be left at home. There's no need for that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Besides, I'll tell you one thing: after July 15th, Turkey is in difficult conditions, that's what you call it. Well, I give up, people, I give up! The National Movement Party says, "I have surrendered to an understanding of either chaos or the presidency." That's it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0238par0283	Come on!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0239par0284	There's a lot of rough pickings, so there's no need to count them all.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0240par0285	Mr. Akçay, please, let's finish. Here, I'll give you two minutes, but please, when we use our promises, we'll avoid the statements that enshrined another group. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0241par0289	(See the words of guilt!) I've said it at least 10 times since Monday. The National Movement Party has done and done its duty, taken the initiative and will continue to take it. The Republican People's Party has not taken responsibility for being the main opposition party; it has not tried to take initiative; it is now the fierceness of being ineffective. As a nationalist movement party, on June 7th...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0242par0290	You've been on duty ever since.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0241par0291	According to the election results, it is Mr. President who said the right thing to do would be the Justice and Development Party-Republic People's Party coalition.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0243par0292	So I told them, and we told them, and they didn't want us.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0241par0293	If we had some ambitions, but you still can't explain why you're holding people up in a row for 32 days. What did you see, why did you keep people occupied in these 45 days?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0244par0295	Ask there, ask there!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0245par0296	Don't ask here, ask there!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0241par0297	No... you're in charge of those 32 days. Clearly, you didn't conduct these negotiations, and you stalled, and you neglected.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0246par0298	Ask your new partner.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0245par0299	Ask your partner, ask your president.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0241par0300	Even that didn't escape the public eye, of course. Dear friends, we must carefully avoid a series of provocative arguments. Believe me, I don't want to go any further, so I'm not going into these polemics, but if we have to, the book's a little puffy. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0247par0304	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0248par0305	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0247par0306	I promise you for a minute. Sit down if you like.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0248par0308	It's more comfortable this way, Mr. President, when my diaphragm gets stuck.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0247par0309	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0248par0312	▪ Why did you take 30 days of Turkey's time with informal talks? If only you had read the June 7th election results and respected the will of the people who took away the key to the Justice and Development Party's power alone, we would not have left Turkey without a government; one. Two: We are sincerely, after June 7th, in a sincere search for the right, genuine government for the Justice and Development Party and the Republican People's Party to form a government in the direction of the nation. The Justice and Development Party pretended to be in that sincere understanding, and that was the way the meeting was held. The talks that were held here were merely to follow the direction of the national will, which emerged on June 7th, in the responsibility of a main opposition, at a point where Turkey's future could be shaped better. We certainly don't see it as wrong, incomplete, inconsequential. We'd have the same attitude if we had the same picture. I mean, we do what people tell us to do. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0249par0315	Thank you. Now, the suggestion...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0250par0317	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0249par0318	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0250par0319	Two sentences, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0249par0320	Okay, complete, please. We're opening up, in a minute...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0250par0323	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the National Movement Party, read both June 7th and November 1st elections very well...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0251par0325	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0250par0327	As we look at the developments since June 7th, his rights have been proven several more times. We set our principles and went down that road. But that's why we're so angry that we didn't get into that lane the Republican People's Party wants us to. That's all I have to say for now. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0252par0329	Thank you. Second word in favour of the proposal, Adana MP Meral Danış Beştaş... Mr. Danış Beştaş, please. [[Applause from HDP rows]] You've had ten minutes. Mr. Danış Beştaş, as we've already decided, there was a rule against bringing product and goods to the General Board and to the stand, but I don't know what's going to come out of the bag.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0253par0338	If you see the stuff, you'll appreciate something that can't be denied.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0252par0339	But he's not supposed to be brought in, no matter what.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0253par0340	Because, along with a scales of justice's goddess, I'll explain why I brought it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0254par0341	We have no goddess, we have God, we have no goddess.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0253par0342	I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's motion for economics.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0254par0343	We have no goddess, we have God.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0253par0344	Really, the economy in Turkey is in pretty bad shape, the citizens are nervous.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0254par0345	The goddess is yours.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0253par0346	Already throughout Turkey -- even though the ruling party insists on discussing the Constitution -- anxiety is a serious problem for investors, business and the public as a whole. The economy management is very heady, the Central Bank can't make decisions alone from another string; each of the ministers makes separate statements. Indeed, the economy can be built with confidence; it can't be built with no confidence, without the growth of the economy, without the rise to the desired level. If the investor, importer, exporter doesn't trust it, then the polarization is reflected in the economic world as well. Now, here's a statement from Mr. President yesterday, which I'm going to say is that it's not really necessary for us to discuss much of the economy.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0255par0348	Mr. President, there's a hum.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0256par0349	Ladies and gentlemen, let's stop humming, please, and let's not disturb the character.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0253par0350	Just like that, says the President: Now everyone sees the economic dimension of the attacks we've been subjected to, saying that those who want to take over Turkey use foreign currency as a weapon. There is no difference between a terrorist with a gun, a bomb, and a dollar in his hand, a euro, a terrorist with interest. Thus, the number of terrorists has increased by millions, and Turkey has become a terrorist paradise. Anyway, in Turkey -- I told you when I was speaking on the general -- you can wake up one morning as a terrorist, and the government appreciates it. We've become so thin that there's a fine line between being a terrorist and being a normal citizen, you can be judged on the other side at any moment. You can't even laugh in a country where dollars are declared terrorists. About a month ago, he invited everyone to break their dollars -- according to my notes -- when the dollar was 3.48. Today, the dollar is at 3.80, and it's increasing rapidly, according to the last time I looked at it. Who's gonna pay for this? Is there any response to such a call? By calling the citizen, the economy can't go straight, and at the same time, those who cashed his dollar have suffered major damage. The overall trend is not good, and we want to say that we will be in favor of the motion, that we will support the motion to investigate all the evaluations, in terms of economic specifically detecting inputs, and to clarify the details of the black money. Dear friends, there's been a new development today: the OSD has decided to examine all its trials over the past 15 years on the grounds that the Fetullahist structure may have interfered. It's a very new development, and there's only one doubt here, there's only one debate, but we insist that the Fetullahist prosecutors have prepared the files on our trustees, they've prepared the proceedings. Despite what we say, there's no improvement. Why not? Why aren't these cases being investigated right now? Really, isn't it a matter of being asked to serve a life sentence in these cases that doesn't hurt our conscience or cause us to question it? The Fetullahists themselves are in prison, but right now their ideas remain in power when it comes to the People's Democratic Party, just as three parties in this House jointly signed the same signature on the removal of parliamentary and immunity. When it comes to HDP, when it comes to differences and Kurdish people, unfortunately, the distinction between parties is gone, and the distinction between the Fetullahists and the AKP's ruling is gone. Today, our Şırnak MP, Mr. Ferhat Encu, has been asked for a aggravated life sentence. You know why? It's my skim 'cause he kicked. I'm sorry, on the charge that he threw it away. Joseph Yerkel threw the kick in front of millions, and he was promoted in Soma. Mr. Farhad Encu is wanted for life in prison on charges of kicking. Now, can we here say that such a law is objective, fair? Nursel Aydoğan was sentenced to four years and eight months in the local court today for the talks under Law 6352, which should have ended in the year 2011. He had a trial a week ago, and a week later, the verdict was announced today, and he was sentenced. There were sheets and sheets in the media yesterday about our co-Chair, Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ: do you know what the reason for his request for life in prison was? I want to present to you the relevant chapter of this indictment, which I will read in the same way -- and I am passing over there -- to the extent that the PKK/KCK terrorist organization's executives have often expressed, and to the extent that it intends to carry out the autonomy and independence of the PKK/KCK terrorist organization, in its own state, in its own case -- to do so, in its own way -- and I want to bring your attention to the fact that it is aimed at its own condition -- and that its two talks in the rally can be considered as a whole, and that the suspect's an act of terrorism in order to achieve autonomy and independence and independence in the East and Southeast Anatolia. It couldn't have been the prosecutor. He puts the speech into 302, and then he says, "Well, nothing happened, so consider it as a member. I mean, he wanted to follow the instructions, but I didn't know how to bring it, so he made an indictment like this. Now, what is it, really? We, as a party, wrote self-government in our program, the constitution is in our draft, when we came out on June 7th, we expressed our self-government demands in front of the public, and we actually got 6 million votes, and we came here with 80 MPs. So, what did you do with the ruling party? You've ordered the presidency, you've fallen from power, you've asked for 400 deputies, you've defended the presidency, you've fallen from power. The right to defend one man's regime -- right now there are constitutional negotiations -- but to ask the public to govern itself, according to international values, is that a crime? What kind of punishment is that? Now, you're going to defend the presidency every day by pushing it into the square, we're going to say "people's administration," we're going to say "people's participation in more administration," but we're going to be accused of committing a crime and threatened with life imprisonment. Are we called: "If you want self-management, we'll drag you into court." • Turkey is on the side of the European Regional Governments Autonomous Condition, is the state of Turkey also committing this crime? Can you say something like that? What kind of freak is that? On the other hand, in the indictment, you're arguing self-management, and you're defending it, so you're from the CK. Now, if we say, for years, the AKP has wanted Assad to fall, and the AKP wants power... how much will it be accepted if we equate ISIS and AKP? Is that even possible? He may want it, he may want another organization; it has nothing to do with the values of the law. I'd like to say that the overwhelming majority of the indictments are being drafted by the Fetullahist prosecutors and the ruling party behind these trials is continuing its partnership on the basis of justice. No one thinks of the Fetullahists as a terrorist organization. Let them not say, all of these indictments must be thrown away. If these indictments are in prison for membership in a terrorist organization, they can't be charged with those indictments. IT is easy to study again in the past. Let's get these files under surveillance. Yes, this is the goddess of justice, and this scale really represents justice, and the snakes beneath it represent evil. You turned it upside down, destroyed justice, and killed the truth. That's exactly what you made it. You've finished the scales of justice in this country.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0257par0361	Thank you. Now...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0258par0363	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0257par0364	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0258par0365	Here, in the squares...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0259par0366	Speak against the group proposal.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0257par0367	The second and final word against the group proposal is İstanbul MP Mehmet Mush. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0260par0370	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I'd like to point out a few things here. We're talking about the one-man regime in the squares. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, everything that happens happens happens in front of the public. These people have never accepted or rejected anything that was imposed on them. No one's gonna get anything done by pushing these people around.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0261par0373	You did it in 2010, and you regretted it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0260par0374	But you tell them what you think, and you get the support of the nation, and you try to make something happen. We, the AK PARTY government, have so far taken their support and remained in power by telling the nation about our policies, our ideas. To you, it may be the only man's regime, but to us, it's not the only man's regime. There's going to be a constitutional amendment here. It is clear what its name is, what Parliament's powers will be, what the balance of powers will be, what the judiciary will be, and it's well explained and explained. If sovereignty is a unconditional nation, no one must prevent it from taking it to the public. Look, valuable lawmakers, about the courts' trials, I've already stated here, it's not right for us to comment as politicians, and we're not going to comment here, but I think it's helpful to remind you of a few things. We weren't the ones who put their backs to the PYD, the PYD, the Syrian branch of the PKK, and the YPG. It is not the terror of the PKK. The Figen is the one who says, "Security is not terror." Those who say that the terrorist from Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) who slaughtered six months of children in the womb of a live bomb act are not a terrorist. They are facing trial today. We'll all wait for the judgment, and we'll respect that decision together. In the same way, see, here, the valued MPs, Mr. Hatip, before the June 7th elections, an attack is being carried out at HDP's Adana province representatives; May 22, May 20th. At the time, the government is investigating this attack, and it states that the terrorists from the DHKP-C have been responsible for its attack. That's when the speaker makes his statement, he's the Adana MP. DHKP-C is not the address we expect. They've already explained themselves, they've expressed their support. We thank them. He says, "Thank you." Dear lawmakers, who is DHKP-C?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0262par0378	It's a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0260par0379	It's a terrorist organization. The DHKP-C terrorist organization is the terrorist organization that slaughtered the martyr Mehmet Kiraz, who died at the end of the March. Mr. Beştaş makes this statement shortly after that, thanking himself even though the government says it was done by the DHKP-C. Dear friends, we are politicians. If we thank the terrorist organization, they'll find a face. You're expected to give them the harshest criticism of their attack. Another thing: Do I find myself in the press when I tell the president to go out and say something to a lot of oratories who come up here? Even if I say something to the President, I wonder if they'll show me in a corner of the paper, even if it's a small punch?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0263par0381	A man's a man's a man's a man's a man's a man's a man's a man's a man's a man's a
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0260par0382	Sir, the President said that he's a terrorist with every dollar. Look, don't try to make any different meanings here with coercion comments, coercion statements.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0264par0383	I read it, I read it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0260par0384	What Mr. President means is, look, in many countries around the world, there are exchange manipulations, manipulative movements, and money movements are somehow triggered at the point where the balance sheets of countries, corporations, are going to fail. What our President has expressed here is that there is no difference between such manipulative actions and the balance sheets of countries, the risks, the values of companies in that country, the conscious and deliberate manipulation of their obligations, and those with weapons in their hands. His explanation is very clear, very clear. I'd like to express that we've also come to terms with some kind of coercion here. Dear lawmakers, there have been several motions for research or talks on this bench concerning this flaw in the Central Bank's accounts and this missing pen. We've been through this before. But we don't think there's room for that kind of research. The House has a busy agenda, and we have important issues to discuss. I'd like to say that we will be against this motion because of the legal arrangements to negotiate, debate, and meet the nation's expectations. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0265par0388	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0266par0389	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0265par0390	Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0266par0391	He clearly picked on me by mentioning my name.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0267par0392	Yes, I did.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0266par0393	I sold it. He says it already.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0268par0394	I promise not to pick on you for two minutes. Please don't let us make a new taunt. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0266par0399	Mr. President, I'm just saying, Mr. President, why do we respond to most of the Presidents? Because he talks the most in Turkey, and no politician talks as much as he does. He talks about everything from economy to politics, agriculture to ecology, diplomacy to foreign relations. Well, he doesn't have the right to do politics, so we're answering because he talks so much. We know that we will not be informed because under the direction of power and the presidency, HDP has been banned from writing, drawing and talking, while others have been locked up in prison. There was a fiction here yesterday that our Istanbul MP had on football, and I liked him very much. I have no interest in football, I'm referring to that fiction. You know, you tie up the player, you hold the referee, and then you score a goal at the empty castle. You really say, "Put Demirtaş, Yüksekdağ, in prison, arrest 75 mayors, lawmakers, arrest the operation every day, we can't go on one television, the press can't do one press statement on the street, can we? ▪ We use democratic rights and freedoms equally! ▪ There is no such thing. People don't believe that either. We're just smiling, everything's on your side. And I'll tell you this: If I'm not mistaken, the chief commentator of Cemil Barlas A News said in the days of Kobani that I am ISIS in Kobani. I don't need to tell you who A Haber is calling. I was wondering when you were gonna tell me about the DHKP-C thing, and you finally found it. There I called out to the government who kidnapped the ISIS people in the attack on our Adana province organization -- the file is open -- and I said thank you to all those who supported us, supported us, but the power media interprets what they want. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit03spe0269par0405	Thank you. I will submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes... III. - Exposure [[A group of CHP MPs stood up]] There's a roll call before the vote, and I'll meet that demand first. Mr. Altay, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Man, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Budak, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Yım, Mr. Türkmen, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Özdish, Mr. Akadın, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Durmaz. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0269par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume our talks with the Plan and Budget Commission Report (1/796), which is ranked in the 1st place, with the Turkish Republic's Retirement Ark Law and the amendments to some Law and Legislature. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the first talks of Amasian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı, Aksaray MP İndınur İnceöz, Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and İstanbul MP Mehmet Mus and 310 MP Mehmet Mush on the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The talks of Article 8 of Law Proposal No. 447 were completed in the last joint. MADDE 9-2709 has been changed in the following way, along with Article 105 of the Law. ▪ E. President's criminal responsibility MADDE 105- The President may be asked to be investigated by the majority of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's integer on charge of committing a crime. The Parliament may discuss the motion within a month at the latest and decide to open an investigation with the secret vote of three-thirds of the member integer. If it is decided to open an investigation, a 15-person commission of each political party will investigate among the candidates to whom the political parties in parliament will triple the number of members they can give to the commission in their power. The Commission will submit its report announcing the outcome of the investigation to the Parliamentary Presidency within two months. If the investigation is not completed during this time, the commission will be given a new and final month. The report will be distributed within ten days of its appointment as President, and it will be discussed in the General Assembly within ten days of its distribution. Turkey's Grand National Assembly can move to the Supreme Court with a secret vote of two-thirds of its integer. The Supreme Court's trial will be completed within three months, and if it cannot be completed in this period, then a three-month extension will be granted, and the trial will be final. The President, who has been ordered to be investigated, cannot be elected. The post of the President, convicted of a crime that prevents him from being elected in the Supreme Court, will be terminated. This clause shall be carried out after the president's completion of his duties for alleged crimes during his time in office. The first word for the groups on the Article is from İstanbul MP Celal Adan. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Adan, your time is ten minutes. Please observe the deadline because we don't give extensions according to the agreement text.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0270par0028	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with all due respect. In particular, I'd like to say that I've been sad to see some progress in the House for the past two days as I review some notes of information to express my thoughts on this clause. See, the valued lawmakers, Cevdet Kerim İncedayi, is an important Republican People's Party, Minister of the Republic; Parliament is President Velilı; before the 1950 elections he gives a speech, he says that if we don't take measures related to the gendarmes, the Memos will come to power. I condemn the Republican People's Party tradition, which is pushing the will to go to the public to second place today because of its brutal statements against the Milliyetian Movement Party. In addition, the National Movement Party is the institutionalized form of a major political tradition that takes power from the Turkish nation and determines what it thinks by taking legitimacy from our nation. The National Movement Party does not sign any improvements in its interests. I'd like to share with you as an example: June 7th has created a climate in front of Turkey, a climate of power. Today, he was pursuing an organization that divided the Turkish Armed Forces, bombed the Assembly, led by the police, the police, the police, to shoot the military. This organization sought the power of the Republican People's Party, a specific political organisation that defined Kandil-based politics, and the National Movement Party. They were so persistent in this power that they offered the Prime Minister's office to the National Movement Party. Yes, it is impossible to describe the destruction of a political power established today with the support of lawmakers who say, "If that coalition had helped you today, it would have strangled you with spit." The words would not have been enough. Therefore, the National Movement Party is the centre of legitimacy in that politics, which has a will to legitimize its legitimacy from the Turkish nation. In Turkey, the nationalist Movement Party's main presence is the headquarters of legitimacy for the Turkish nation. Thus, yesterday, after July 15th, our esteemed speaker, Semih Yalçın Bey, described the events Turkey faced, quite beautifully. After I left here, I went to the archives with our Mersin MP Baki Bey. June 7th, before June 7th, what was discussed in Turkey? T.C., where the university structure was discussed. Turkey, where the Constitution has been removed from the Constitution, and the Turkish identity has been discussed. However, the nationalist Movement Party's basic values and the will revealed today by the Justice and Development Party, which we are grateful for, are now at a standstill against the elements that threaten Turkey's existence, Turkey is taking a distance from its predictions, which were adopted by the nationalist Movement Party yesterday. Turkey has a hypocritical sense of democracy. Those who lead this hypocritical idea of democracy must examine themselves. I wish in 1960 a country boy would go to the gallows and be shut down by the executioners. I wish there was a struggle for democracy on March 1 2th, 1971. 1980 military coups, coups, all of which have been turned into decisions that have brought Turkey into darkness, all of the dark works turned into important decisions in our nation's life, which have brought our nation back. The hypocritical democracy... the nationalist movement party, as of today's stance, has always, in every way, shown a great deal of will over the legitimacy of the nation's will. You see, in the history of the republic, our nation is going to suffer the most, and in the coming days, it's going to be a disgrace to their children for bringing that matter up. The National Movement Party, who pushed the 367 out of the way to enter parliament and pave the way for democracy. On that day, there were brutal slanders against the National Movement Party, but the National Movement Party is not obliged to consult anyone about strengthening the decisions of the nation's legitimate power and to be on the side of the nation's will. Because this Turkish state, which we have experienced today, was founded by free Turkish state, free flag, not by taking instructions from there, but by meeting the Turkish nation in Samsun, Anatolia. Of course, the National Movement Party will analyze its basic ideas from the wisdom of our nation, from the truth of our nation. The first elected political party will be placed in front of a 367 and will be led to the public, which will again attract the elected President of the public, which will be called "Vatan." I have been doing politics for many years, the esteemed MPs, the late Turgut Özal President, his wife İstanbul County President, Mesut Yilmaz became Prime Minister; Süleyman Demirel, late, was in the Right Path Party, they entered into Islam with Tansu Ciller, they have divided the Right Path Party, Ahmet Necdet Sezer, Süleyman Demirel, Turgut Özal, and you will not find the path of Turgut Özal. Thus, the proposal brought by the Justice and Development Party is that this draft constitution, which has led the nationalist Movement Party to a very healthy transformation, will eventually turn into a decision by taking power from the nation. So, in the name of the country, the nation, and Ataturk, it has made me very, very sad to express their concern for the republic by accusing the National Movement Party, I assure you. You're going to lead the political power of the PKK and CHP to form a political force on its axis, and it's very wrong to explain that the nationalist Movement Party, which, despite the Prime Ministership, defies the basic will of the nation, is working on its part. Dear MPs, in the Constitution of 1921, which was prepared in the extraordinary conditions of the Liberation War, and established the national state, the first regulation of the Act of the Organizational Act, the presidency of the presidency, does not exist. After the declaration of the Republic, the presidency was formed in 1923 to represent the unity of the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation. As it is known, the presidents of the republic have been irresponsible in the entire constitution. In the current regulation of the Constitution of 1982, the presidents are as free and irresponsible as they are politically. The President can be referred to the Supreme Court on charges of treason, with at least three-quarters of the full number of members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, or 413 approval votes, according to the amendment. This exaggerated form of irresponsibility has covered every aspect of life, even the Law of Punishment. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to thank the Commissioners of the Justice and Development Party. They accepted all the proposals the National Movement Party has made on this matter. Both in the current state of our Constitution and in the text of the proposal, the President will be punished only for treason. The article shall be charged with all kinds of crimes. The Article of Justice and Development has been brought to us by us, as well as the Party for Development. And I want to thank them for the fact that we've been relegated to the idea that there's been an exaggeration in the proportions of the High Court's transfer. As you know, in 1992, there were valuable lawyers among us -- the crime of treason had already been eliminated, so the President was not to be judged. There are a number of different interpretations, but in this case, according to today's system, a very consistent, very logical process has been initiated, which also precludes the Constitution of 1982 on judging the President. In addition, when the President was questioned, his ability to make decisions was taken from him. When the president was accused and turned into a punishment... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Ahmet, wait a minute...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0271par0040	Mr. Adan, let me give you and the rest of the groups a minute more on this clause. Pick it up in a minute, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0272par0043	Thank you. Therefore, it is impossible to find betrayal anywhere where Turkey's cement, its presence, its power, is at the headquarters of the Turkish nationalism idea, the Nationalist Movement Party. I salute you all with the best wishes of our nation.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0047	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0274par0048	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0049	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0274par0050	Mr. Adan may have thought I'd be demanding a word with him, but I won't say anything about his speech.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0051	Yes, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0274par0052	Mr. President, according to Article 57 of the Civil Code, the President will make a roll call if he hesitates. There is a decision, and it's yours. However, the president who conducts the session in the opening of all -- backwards -- we have enough meetings, so I'm opening a combination. One minute, guys, it's backwards, and that's how it's always been. Today, you opened this House without using this expression. I'm not looking for an ulterior motive, but it's possible to assess it as a serious misdemeanor. In this regard, if you appreciate it, the groups have something to say about it, so let's open up a discussion of procedure.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0053	Mr. Altay, wait a second, you want to talk, I don't understand, you're looking for an excuse.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0274par0054	No...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0055	No, I mean, now...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0274par0056	But now you're picking on me, you're picking on me.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0057	Now, Mr. Altay, okay, I...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0275par0058	No, no, no. Mr. Altay, please, you're provoking me.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0274par0059	But now he's picking on me.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0060	Okay, here, I'll give you two minutes without picking on you; I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0274par0061	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0062	Mr. Altay, look, there's no way I'm going to be able to open up a procedural debate about this.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0274par0063	Why?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0064	Look, if he falls in distress here, he'll do a roll call.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0274par0065	Okay.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0066	Well, I haven't hesitated since I haven't done roll call.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0274par0067	Okay, bye.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0068	If I've kept up the agenda of whether or not this should go on the record, it's not a constituent element or an essential element.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0274par0069	Look...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0070	Well, if I'm already on the agenda, then I didn't hesitate, I assumed...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0274par0071	I do.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0072	...we picked up where we left off.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0274par0073	Well, that's what I said.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0074	Mr. Altay, I teased you, please let me give you two minutes for teasing.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0274par0075	No, it's like this, but you won't find one backwards. There are enough meetings. If there is one session unsaid, I will apologize. I don't have this.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0076	Mr. Altay, where in the Civil Code does this come from? According to the Civil Code...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0274par0077	Now, in this House...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0078	It's the Civil Code that's in charge.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0274par0079	Where in the Civil Charter does it say three minutes or two minutes or five minutes for roll call?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0080	It's in the President's discretion.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0274par0081	There's an app.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0082	So the 57th article you've read is in the opinion of the president, the roll call...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0274par0083	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0084	I picked on you, please, I just picked on you very seriously. I promise you two minutes of teasing.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0274par0086	Mr. President, I'm not...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0087	Please, Mr. Altay, I beg you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0274par0088	May I, in accordance with the regulations of the Civil Code, give you my word -- you know -- that you can deliver the word of an MP? If you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0089	But then I'll have to pick on your band.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0276par0090	No, no, no, no.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0274par0091	Why don't you get out and run the place?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0092	Wait a second...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0274par0093	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0094	Wait a second... Then I'll be picking on your band.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0274par0096	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0097	Here you go, Mr. Tanal. I'll give you two minutes on behalf of the group.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0277par0099	Look, Mr. President, you're acting out of order.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0278par0100	The preacher's on the stand.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0273par0101	One moment, I've invited the minister to the stand, Mr. Elitaş, please do not interfere. Wait a second... Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0279par0105	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute and salute you all. Mr. Deputy Speaker, starting Monday, we started working on the Constitution. In the same way, on Tuesday, there is a sufficient number of meetings. There is a sufficient number of meetings opened on Monday. There is a sufficient number of meetings. There is a sufficient number of meetings. Mr. President... says. There are enough meetings at the opening of today's meeting. If you mean, scientifically, there are all the cameras here, how many of the MPs are here, Mr. President, clearly and clearly. Opening the Grand National Assembly of Turkey without the number of meetings is an actual violation of the Civil Code and also a violation of the Constitution. According to our constitution, it is an actual violation of the Constitution that you open the Grand National Assembly of Turkey before the number of meetings is 184. We've asked for the number of meetings in the motion vote on this, and we've registered it with this, and since there are not enough people in the meeting, there are no 184, there are 15 minutes to recess. That's why, since the meeting wasn't enough when it first opened, and the second time, because we didn't have enough meetings in the motion, the House should be officially closed right now. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Because if the meeting isn't enough two times in a row, the House will be closed. The fact that we are now discussing the Constitution is in effect a violation of both the Civil Code and the Constitution. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0280par0111	Mr. Tanal, you should be the deputy group president.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0281par0112	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. The Civil Code is very clear. I had it when I opened it, and then the guys went somewhere until you asked them to, and then they came back. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the second word on the matter belongs to Van Deputy Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan. Here you go, Mr. Ertan.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0282par0120	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. The clause I promised to discuss is the part of the Constitution that regulates Article 105. This is a clause that regulates the President's criminal responsibility. Although the clause has organised an investigation into the President's crime and the issue of the High Court's request, its content and other arrangements in the proposal have been made clear that the President has been coated with a life sentence. The people who defended the offer had a public statement and a lack of responsibility for us. We're opening up a path of judgment. It's shaped like that. However, these narratives, unfortunately, do not reflect the truth by describing a situation that is not actually possible. In the conditions of the State of Emergency, we said that such a proposal for constitutional amendment was an imposition, that our future was uncertain, that no one could express their opinions freely, that free debates and preferences could not be revealed, that each section could be silenced, and therefore there was no constitutional public opinion, and that our future had become dark. While this is the case, neither the choice nor the choice will create a basis for reconciliation. On the contrary, he'll keep his judgment, his crises, and his coup d'états up and running. Putting the entire community in such danger means the same as not fulfilling the responsibility to be in power. In fact, the life we've had over a year of chaos and crises, with bombs exploding, was a rehearsal of the regime that we're now trying to bring in. Yeah, well, we'd have to keep up with the legal situation. You're making confessions. The regime has changed whether you want it or not. The infrastructure of this regime has been established since the day he said. With the provisions of the State of Emergency, the management style has been masterful and is still being carried out in a way that prevents social ground from working against it. It seems that a deep darkness awaits our entire society because there is not a single ray of sunlight anywhere in this proposal. Proposal advocates, the rule of law. There's still the regime of the Republic. Did we lock the public door? It's an effort. Yes, but we see very well how difficult you are. You can't tell. You haven't been able to identify the truth of society properly. There's no people in it. As a matter of fact, Congress doesn't work because you're taking away the mechanisms that the public can account for. You haven't even named the regime yet; someone says the presidency, someone says the half president, someone says the Turkish type is the president, and someone says it's extremely democratic. We know there aren't any of them. For example, this is not a presidential regime, unlike any presidential regime. Yesterday Mr. Burhan Lamb told me about the American presidential type here. We understand that the reference model is a U.S.-type presidential model, but it doesn't look anything like it. If the reference is that model, let's discuss it. It has nothing to do with the model in this proposal. I wonder where you got your references. For example, in America, the president has never been deceived, let my great nation forgive me. He cannot say, he must appear before the supreme court and the supreme courts make the decision. Again, the separation of forces in the United States is much more specific, the independence of the judiciary is very clear. No judge stands up and tries to button up because the president walks in, no judge goes to tea with the president, never gives him that photo. In this proposal, the entire administration, the vast majority of legislation, the entire judiciary, and all state-owned public institutions and institutions are designed by the president. This is not democratic if you call it a democracy because an election is envisioned. In this, nowhere, people don't get to answer, they don't get to ask for at least five years. If war is decided, for example, the people are unable to ask, "Why are we going to war? " Oh, if he didn't like it, he'd have to wait for the election to change it. It's not clear how to choose in the environment. It's just a function of going to the polls and voting for people's referees. You say, "Don't be afraid of the people." You say, "Don't be afraid of the people." But by saying that, you're actually being very disrespectful to people's votes. If people don't have a say in the government, if they can't answer, will they be sentenced to at least five years? That doesn't make sense. Your claim is that when you're a presidential model with no precedent or anywhere else, content and fiction are limitless, that the executive powers are in one person, that person will never be judged, that person will never account for. Let alone control, in this new regime or model -- whatever you call it -- members of Parliament will not be able to ask questions. He can ask questions to the Prime Minister, who is normally the head of the administration, but he has no right to even ask questions in this new regime. So when we look at the recipes, definitions, motives, and regulations together, I can actually see why you can't come up with a name. What you can't say is that there's only one name for these features, and the whole world defines it as "dictatorship," and yet no other concept has been found. I don't think bidders should try to explain it on the principle of democracy or the rule of law, call it "dictatorship" and get rid of the rush of that name. The basis of the irresponsibility of the president is that his powers are symbolic or directly unauthorized. Naturally, if he does not have the authority, he will not have the responsibility, and this office will be considered neutral and symbolised of neutrality, so that he may be considered to be able to see the function of a referee among the state's organs. With such an internal balance formula, it's understandable you won't have any criminal responsibility. The only exception is the matter of treason, which in which case is also qualified, mostly only for the Supreme Court. In the responsibilities process, the head of state has a signature with a minister, who is held responsible. This mechanism is a mechanism in which the head of state is not authorized, does not act, and guarantees the title of irresistibility, and, again, all situations are only for matters related to its mission. With this offer, first of all, the path of justice is being opened on the charge of committing a crime. Although it is said that this arrangement is only formal, there is no practical application, and it is an arrangement that will bring the president with a life sentence. The following is: In the assumption that the number of MPs will be 600, an investigation could be asked with 301 MPs, an investigation could be decided with 360 MPs, and a transfer order to the Supreme Court with 400 MPs could be issued. In the same election campaign of parliament and the President, we all know that the presidential candidate may also be the leader of the political party, and that those numbers will never be reached in the profile of a legislature that he has assigned all the candidates to. Second: As there is no distinction between his duties or personal crimes, he has been protected with this armor for life by indications that the same clause will be carried out after the mission. But if there is authority, then there must be responsibility according to authority. On the other hand, the doctrine of modern criminal law has almost a consensus that the heads of state will be responsible for their personal crimes. Third: When we look at the mechanism of proposed forces in general, the fact that the President will appoint the majority of the members of the higher judicial body, with the fact that the president is going to appoint the majority of the members of the High Judiciary body, it is very clear how baseless and baseless his claim that the path to justice has been opened to the President when he is evaluated with this fact. Dear MPs, we, the HDP, are the only parties standing in front of this regime from the moment it was first spoken. We started saying "no" before June 7th, we say "no" since then, and now we say "no." We say "no" to OHAL, we say "no" to unjust arrests, we say "no" to torture, we say "no" to rights violations, and we say "no" to life violations. The true colour of Turkey's lands, the Turkish and Kurd and the Alevi, the Sunni, the Muslim, the Christian, whatever faith everyone has, is just and...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0283par0136	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0282par0137	Thank you. I have full faith that with all its differences, there will be a constitution in this land where all people will live fairly and equally. I believe that one day we will all make that constitution together, and until then, we will say no to all the prohibitions and all the oppressions that threaten all of us, and I invite you to no. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0284par0141	Thank you. The third word for the group now belongs to Artvin MP Ugur Bayraktutan on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Flagtutan, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0285par0145	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 9 of the Law Proposal No. 447. I salute your high council. The main argument in this article is the principle of the President's criminal responsibility, which is held in Article 105. Here's the demand to be made with the current proposal: we say that you're making -- 600, you're making a change in that clause, you're bringing the number of lawmakers to 600, you're asking for an investigation into the President, and immediately after that, the current Parliament decides to open an investigation with 5/3, most of the 360 MPs, if there's a crime against the President. After that, with two thirds of the time, 400 MPs, you demand the President's trial, dear friends. In response, the system you wish to change today has provisions concerning the trial of ministers and the Prime Minister, and how to judge the Prime Minister and the ministers, under Article 103, and Article 107 of the Interior Charter. The effort is clearly stated. In a parliament with 550 MPs, a member of the 10th can be sent to the Supreme Court, my dear friends, with only one minister, in accordance with the demands, immediately following the investigation procedures. Again, the President can only be charged with 1/3/3/4 of the total number of members of the Turkish National Assembly for treason, and 3/4 of the time for treason, if the current Constitution demands a amendment. My dear friends, perhaps if this passes, goes public, or goes public, as you're talking about on television so many times now, here's your most important argument. You're saying that the president had been charged with treason before. We brought such an arrangement to Parliament. If he passes through Parliament, you will tell the people that the president can also be tried for other crimes. I imagine you can put something like this out there. We're going to present our basic arguments on this. Dear friends, as you bring this arrangement, you destroy the distinction between the President's personal crimes and duty crimes. So that armor on Article 105, 360, 400, that I've just mentioned, you apply those numerical numbers to both crimes and personal crimes. There's no way to accept that. A President may commit a crime regarding his position, there are duties imposed on the President in Article 104, but he may also commit a criminal act in the same time period, and he may go and hit someone with a vehicle. A president can commit a manslaughter charge, commit a shameful crime. There's no way to go and put the investigative methods of these things into this procedure, my dear friends. Look, a member of parliament has a shield in Article 83 concerning the parliamentary immunity of the legislature. What does it say there? He says: "Except in the case of the accused, except in the case of the arrest and trial of the MP, and those related to the 14th article, he says that his investigation will begin before he is elected a member of parliament." But we're bringing a suit of armor to the President, my dear friends. This is not a broad scope of the President's trial for crimes other than treason, but we're actually putting a shield in front of the President's trial. Is this just about the term of duty? No, it's not, my dear friends, it's not about the term of duty. As long as the President is alive, there's no way he'll be tried, no way he'll testify, no way he'll get in front of the D.A. Because it's impossible for the President to testify that way by completing this procedure. If I were you, there'd be no need to translate the 105, my dear friends. The president can't be tried. Say, "Get out, my dear friends, there's no need to say anything else." (Applause from CHP's rows) The president cannot be tried, questioned, can't testify to the prosecutor, can't testify to the judge, and who is the judge. There's no need to twist the words, that's the gist of it. First of all, I'd like to express it. We've been through all these processes, so that means that we've passed 301, 360, 400, and Parliament can annul itself with 360, but a president who has committed a crime of 360 can't bring him before the judiciary. You can't possibly understand such a weirdo, my dear friends. Even if you did, in a sense, admit that you've crossed all these digits, completed the procedures associated with the investigation; who's the president leading? To whom does the President appear, my dear friends? The president himself appoints 12 members in his left arm, and goes before the Supreme Court, which will serve as the Supreme Court, and appoints 12 members himself. In his right hand, he goes to the front of a Supreme Court where he appoints three members of the Justice and Development Party, where he is tried. Do you know what our people, the Artvins, call it? The blind, the deaf, welcome one another. My dear friends. (CHEERING) There's no way to accept that. So you appoint your own judges, you appoint your own judges, then you come out, you're judged in front of them, and then you'll probably go out and say, "We're increasing the process of the president's trial. It's not possible to accept that, my dear friends, I'm first expressing it. As I just said, write a single word here, write two words, even the president can't be tried. Say, get out, my dear friends. See, the 6th article of the Constitution concerning the use of sovereignty contains a decree that cannot be handed over to a person, a class or a group under any circumstances. In the 7th article, the State of Turkey has the authority of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on behalf of the Turkish nation, and this authority cannot be transferred in any way. We are faced with an executive ruling. I think you understand what this means. As lawmakers of Mustafa Kemal, we strongly refuse and refuse to accept the sovereignty of Saray under an arrangement here, I would like to express it from here once again, my dear friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, if Bekir Bozdağ were here, he'd understand better, but there's a minister during the Council of Ministers. Look, I'm one of the first MPs to come to this Parliament on the evening of July 15th; Mr. Bulent Tezcan is here, Mr. Flood Köse is here. When we said this in our last assessment, they said: "The President of Parliament has come before you. I assure you, my dear friends in the Justice and Development Party, we have come to this Parliament earlier than the Speaker of Parliament, as the three CHP MPs, but make sure that we did not come to parliament that night to defend Recep Tayyip Erdoğan's bed, and we came to defend that republic, democracy, freedom, which he called it. We came to this Parliament that night, as MPs of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. (CHEERING) I'd like to say this one more time, my dear friends. Look, we're aware of the changes we've been asked to bring here. We are aware of how the principle of separation of forces has been destroyed, my dear friends. We know what the goal of the system is that someone is trying to impose on the people as the president in disgrace. It's the secular republic of Mustafa Kemal, who is asked to be destroyed by giving all power to one person here, my dear friends, there's no need to twist the words. I want to make that very clear. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You know how you always put it in your words? The target is 2023. We know what that target is, my dear friends. Look, we're talking about cooking right here. If we cook the right food and put it in front of our fellow citizens, our citizen won't be wrong. They just spoke here as highly valued representatives of the MPP. I remember September 12, 2010. In the September 12, 2010 people's vote, the people's Party of the Republic also claimed that it was wrong at the time, saying: "Don't make it wrong; don't hand it over to the Fetullahist terrorist organization, this gang." What have you done, my dear friends? You're always saying: "The people do the right thing. " Well, the people did the wrong thing, and you took the wrong food and put it in front of the people. Isn't that what happened? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Think of a country, my dear friends, who has handed over a quarter of 16,000 judges and prosecutors to a Fetullahite gang. If you hadn't done that wrong on September 12, 2010, if you had heeded the warnings of the Republican People's Party, if it hadn't been for this mistake, we might not have given more than 250 more martyrs today, my dear friends; we wouldn't have experienced the sufferings of Ergenekon. We wouldn't have given Mercedes under that Zechariah Auto, my dear friends; we wouldn't have given such a painting to Turkey. Therefore, we warn you in today's terms, you are wrong, my dear friends. We know where this painting is going...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0286par0165	Are you reading intent?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0285par0166	And we're happy for our friends at the nationalist movement party. After three or four months, God forbid this proposal passes through Parliament, we know it's a division project, a project that wants to destroy our nation's state, our republic, our unitary state. Because you're handing over the authority of Parliament to a person we're hesitant to do so, my dear friends. So we strongly deny it, we don't accept it, we resist it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Therefore, from the Parliament of Ataturk, we say that our people should look to the Republican People's Party and to the MPs of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. To lose hope and be thrown in the dark. Remember, it is a resistance under the same sky. It says, "I salute your high council."
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0287par0170	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. The last speaker on behalf of the groups is İstanbul MP Hayati Printer on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Printer.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0288par0174	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the 9th amendment proposal. I salute the grand jury. Dear lawmakers, it's important to make a constitution. It's in your name, mother of all laws. Looking back on our history, we have five Constitutions, including the Ottoman era: 1876, 1921, 1924, 1961 and 1982. So, who makes the constitution? The people make the constitution, the people make it, and the right to make the constitution is a monopoly right, non-transferable, by making it a nation directly or through its representatives... Looking back on our history -- I mentioned our 5 Constitutions -- which did the nation do? All of our constitutions, except for the founding times, have been carried out at extraordinary times and under extraordinary circumstances. Our current Constitution has been significantly altered, and for the first time, we're doing the most important, the most meaningful, the one within the scope of a government change. In this regard, the amendment, which has been under way here for several days, is extremely important and vital for Turkey's future. I'm going to work on some concepts in this limited speech. Sir, the regime is being changed regarding this Constitutional proposal. The criticism is being made. What's a diet? What do we understand about the regime? Well, he needs to know that, so we can sit on it. Dear friends, there's no need to turn around. In a very simple sense, is there any doubt that the regime is the basic institutions of the state, its shape, its qualities, and its state? No.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0289par0179	The way he operates, the way he manages.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0288par0180	E, the shape of our state, the republic; its attributes; a democratic, secular, social law state, and, of course, the positions it sits on.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0290par0181	The legal government's already gone.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0288par0182	...is an indivisible whole with its country and its nation; its flag, its capital, etc. Is there anything different about these qualities that I'm trying to express in this proposal? No.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0291par0183	You didn't count the state of law.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0288par0184	Why are you leaving here?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0292par0185	How is this a state of law when high judges are hand-to-hand?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0288par0186	Another concept has been expressed in the debates here, as well as the friends who have just spoken, as described as a dissolution of the arrangement of the President or Parliament to renew the elections, dissolution. Dear friends, there is no dissolution in any of the lines of this change and in the Constitution. Dissolution is a legal concept; breaking it down means shutting it down with all its functions. In the history of the Republic, since the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, since 1920, except for the times of coup, this Grand Assembly has always been open. Therefore, the Constitution is not a dissolution of the elections, but a renewal of the elections, and the President has never been authorized to dissolve the Parliament. I'd like to emphasize that the regeneration of the subject body functions will continue uninterrupted until the selection is made. Another confusion of concept: the neutrality of the President, which exists in the text of the oath. How can a party member be a party member, dear friends, and neutrality is a very broad concept. Neutrality means justice, driver's license, integrity and pleasure.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0293par0188	For God's sake!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0294par0189	Those who don't...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0288par0190	While the president is running the state, he will take care of these areas, these institutions, while using a national authority.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0294par0191	So he's not neutral, Mr. President; there's no merit, there's no justice.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0288par0192	Other than that, he has the right to use his political preferences as a normal individual, of course. Gene is also criticised in the current Constitution that he has been cut off from his party in case the President is elected. Dear friends, you have to look at these things right, in terms of concept. Whether an individual is a member of any political party or not, democratic participation is a political right; why don't you look from here? There's an obstacle to the use of that right, and with that change, the obstacle is removed.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0295par0194	Who will provide the unity of the government, the integrity of the government?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0296par0195	Then why can't government officials be members of the political party? Isn't that right?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0297par0196	Let's make the judges, Mr. Secretary of the Political Party.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0298par0197	Dear lawmakers, the concept that leads to another confusion, confusion: legal debate on the president's actual situation. Look, valued lawmakers, the savings Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan of the Republic of Turkey has carried out since he became President of the Republic of Turkey are all forms of behavior based on the Constitution.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0299par0199	For God's sake!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0298par0200	Open up, read Article 8 of the Constitution. It has the authority and the mandate to conduct it and says below it: "The power and duty to conduct it is carried out by the President and the Council of Ministers." Article 104 is the President's duties and powers; he has broad duties and powers regarding the law, the administration, the judiciary.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0300par0201	They're not the right ones.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0298par0202	In Article 104, again...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0300par0203	It was bad, you're making it worse.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0298par0204	Today you find it very difficult to understand that the Council of Ministers sometimes meets in Fivepe, and you do not. What's it say? If the President agrees with the Council of Ministers, he will be the head of the Council of Ministers in case he sees it necessary. • Yes, it means that if he agrees with the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister will set the agenda, and if he is the chairman, he will set the agenda. He uses such duties and authority.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0301par0205	Then let's not change it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0298par0206	Another argument, a key argument: Due to the election of the President in 2007, in our country, which has always been a problem, the nation has been in a state of dissolving that problem and the Constitution has been changed.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0302par0207	That problem is solved.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0298par0208	The nation chooses the president. He's entitled to run twice. E, are we going to get elected and tell them not to run for President twice? The Constitution says it could be. And what will the president say when he's in public? I've been there, I've been in Ankara, I've done the protocols, I've signed some papers, I've come. Is that what he's going to say? There's a promise of action. The presence of the president's second right to be elected does not impose on him the right to act, but the ruling. So, the conflicting issue here is that the President, with such broad tasks and powers, is irresponsible according to the existing Constitution. Well, that's a contradiction.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0303par0211	The current Constitution is bad, you're doing worse, that's what we're saying.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0298par0212	We remove it with this clause, my dear friends, and we remove it by making the 105th Amendment. What is the title of Article 105 in the existing Constitution? The president's responsibility and irresponsibleness. What do we do with the title of this clause? We're bringing in criminal responsibility. It's not in our history. We're bringing in criminal responsibility.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0304par0214	We're making a mistake, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0298par0215	But I'll tell you one thing, my dear fellow citizens have taken the matter elsewhere in the existing Constitution...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0304par0216	Don't deflect!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0298par0217	...in today's Constitution, the President can only be tried for treason. How's he gonna move in and judge? With three-quarters of the full number of members, the total number of members will go by the decision of 450 lawmakers, assuming 600. Where did we bring it? We've reduced 2/3 to 400. You have to see these, dear friends.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0305par0218	Why are you comparing the existing Constitution to the head of the administration... so that it can be judged very easily?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0298par0219	Therefore, with this amendment to the Constitution, to the nation that really owns the sovereignty, its representative...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0305par0221	You didn't send four ministers to the Supreme Court!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0306par0222	Complete, Mr. Printer in one minute, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0298par0223	Look, the right to law enforcement is a monopoly on the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and while the decrees signed by the President alone are out of judicial control, with this constitutional amendment, we strengthen the judicial path towards all savings of the administration, including the President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0307par0224	You're fooling the public!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0298par0225	We have opened the way for judgment against presidential decrees.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0307par0226	He'll never be judged, you know! There's only one reason for the amendment, not to be judged!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0298par0227	As a final statement, with this constitutional amendment, we're building a highway to Turkey's public administration, government administration, highway; we're building a highway that will provide a very fast, paced, safe walk. I say good luck, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0308par0230	Thank you, Mr. Printer. The first word for the individuals now belongs to Adana MP Talip Küçükcan. Mr. Littlecan, come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0309par0235	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to discuss the 9th Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. I salute the Veteran Assembly, our nation and the General Assembly. Members of parliament, it is our duty to protect the honor and dignity of this great House, a place of national will. I regret to inform you that some of our members' actions have caused serious damage to the reputation of our House. Resistance and protest are natural rights, but using these words and concepts to invade the bench in violation of other MPs' right to speak, as it is clear from the video footage, it is the actions that we should all condemn, in a deliberate way, to attack, punch, and resort to physical violence. On this occasion, I condemn the attack on our Vice President, Mr. Fatih Şahin. I wish him well. Members of parliament, the 9th article I have agreed on organises the President's political, judicial and criminal responsibility. Unfortunately, those who take the word against the proposal often continue to argue over imaginary concerns and fears, such as,, authoritarianization,, and even the one-hand collection of powers, or even the non- rational, non-responsive coup. Of course, it's their natural right, but I have to say that a rational discussion is more constructive based on the concrete content of the principles and the proposal, and that's the choice we're using. Transparency and accountability are crucial among the common attributes of democratic governments, legal states and legitimate powers. The same qualities and principles apply to leaders and those in charge. The legitimacy of governments and leaders without transparency, accountability, and responsibility has always been questioned, and will be questioned after that. The use of authority and the establishment of a balance in the bee of responsibility are among the criteria for the quality of democracy and the quality of the legal state. In this context, the proposed arrangement lays the groundwork for the start of a new era in terms of determining and increasing the President's responsibilities. Dear lawmakers, the President has no political responsibility in the current system. According to the Constitution of 1982, which is currently in effect, the President cannot be held responsible for his decisions and orders during his mandate, nor can he be charged with any crime that falls into his field, nor can he be audited for matters related to his duty. Politically, the prime minister and ministers are responsible for the work and transactions made by the prime minister and the concerned ministers. According to the current Constitution, the President has no judicial responsibility and can only be tried on charges of treason. I mean, he's got an immunity suit right now. Again, according to the existing Constitution, there is no criminal responsibility other than treason, which cannot be tried for other alleged crimes. The proposed text of the constitution has the opposite. I mean, the president's political responsibility is being brought to him from one side, while the president's judicial responsibility on the other is being increased. We're opening the way to the President, who will execute his executive authority. This Parliament will decide the president's trial, not anyone else. I mean, we're going to continue the inspection mission to the end again. The president of the nation's direct selection will be continued to be audited by this great parliament, which the nation has chosen. And, of course, criminal responsibility is being brought to the presidents. According to the Constitution of 1982, there will be an investigation into other charges stemming from the use of the executive powers of the President, who is solely responsible for treason.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0310par0240	Who determines the deputy they choose, who determines the names?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0309par0241	This is where the numbers, the numbers, the rates were mentioned earlier. As a result, the 9th article gives the President political, judicial and criminal responsibilities, giving parliament an important control. This opportunity and the task are of great importance to us, and the President who will be elected from now on will continue to be audited democratically by this Parliament, which will again be elected. This is also a form of democratic governance and the necessity of the state of law. On this occasion, I salute the House again.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0311par0245	Thank you, Mr. Littlecan. On behalf of his subjects, the second and final speaker is Mugla MP Omar Süha Aldan. Here you go, Mr. Aldan.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0312par0249	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, in fact, had himself been in a confusion about whether the Prime Minister was greater than 3/3 or greater than 5 as he was talking about this clause. Really, it's a very difficult thing to tell the public. Actually, I was going to talk to you about something else, but I need to give an answer to every two officers who just spoke. As a rule, the President will occupy a symbolic position in the Republic of Turkey, and it will be assumed that he will not commit any crime except treason. Hence, the current arrangement was made according to this. In fact, it's an indication that this proposal is a regime change because the President's symbolic structure is being placed directly in an active position. However, an additional addition is being made, along with the President, to the trial of his assistants and ministers is being difficult. Let's give an example: In this case, if the President kills a man, he will be tried at the end of his mission, but if this law becomes legal and our Constitution changes, then the President cannot be judged without the votes of 400 MPs when he kills.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0313par0252	For life.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0312par0253	That's a big difference. Let's not miss it, please. The President can commit any crime if he wants to, and he is free to commit it. The title of Article 105 should have been the President's criminal irresponsibility. Let's say that the number of MPs to judge the president has been reached, and the vote will be held the next day, and the President will make 20 of these 400 MPs ministers, and the minister will drop their parliamentary powers as soon as they do, so the number of 400 will not be reached again. Now, please, let's not make fun of the public, let's take care of it. (Applause from CHP rows) This brings Turkey to a position that can't really judge the president, the vice president, and the ministers. For example, the four ministers' investigations have always come up in Turkey, and if there had been 276 votes, they would have been able to be tried. Now, if this offer is accepted, there is no longer a possibility of the trial of the four ministers, since it will be implemented in favour. There's a trick going on here. Let's not keep this out of sight. With this bill, in fact, there is no preventing the next ministers from being tried by the president, the vice president, and the trial of those four ministers is being prevented. And you have to pay careful attention to this: the people elected the President. Here, the people choose Parliament. There's a confusion of concept. The President and the Prime Minister disagree, and a ship does not have two captains. No. My dear friends, this is actually a plane. It's a plane. A plane has two captains. People who live in business class are happy, those who are behind the plane are unhappy, desperate. [[Applause from CHP rows]] So how did we get to this point? In fact, the year 2007 became the subject of 367. I'll give you my personal opinion, but I don't have time. Erkan Mumcu is being pressured by different channels; a former party, the Justice and Development Party, is asked by another understanding that dominates the state, and to enter parliament to find that number 367. Erkan Mumcu, who was also at one point in the middle, proposed a condition as head of the Motherland Party, said: "Let the people choose the president, I will enter the Parliament." The Justice and Development Party immediately prepared a proposal for the election of this President, asking if he would enter parliament. If you remember, during the work of this, during the referendum, there was almost no rally, a spontaneous result. My last word is that our people have always said no in referendums that limit freedoms.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0314par0260	Why don't you complete it?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0312par0261	Thank you, Mr. President. This nation has always said no to constitutional amendments that limit freedoms. This kind of referendum has always been a no, and I want you to pay particular attention to it. Indeed, this referendum was a problem, and the election in 2010 was a problem for the judiciary, and the Constitutional Amendment was a problem for the judiciary, but remember, there is no advantage in 2010, but yes, the people, the Kenan Universe will be judged. I present the situation to your knowledge, with respect.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0315par0266	Thank you, Mr. Aldan. So the talks on matter are complete. Now, we're going to do the QA. I'll turn on the microphones for the MPs who entered the system to ask questions for five minutes, and I'll give the other five minutes to the government. Mr. Engin, come in.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0316par0270	Mr. Secretary, we have a very serious social dissolution and polarization chaos in our country. In this polarization environment, the constitutional amendment proposal you've submitted to the parliament has lifted the Prime Minister's office and is aimed at the unity of forces that the forces have joined in the President, who has all power over the President. That's why you want the parliamentary and presidential elections to be held on the same day. According to your proposal, while the president is running the country, he will ask for his own vote in the election squares as president, attend his own party's congresses, rallies, the province will run district agencies, prepare a parliamentary list. My first question is: Do you not have a guilty conscience about preparing such an offer to deepen our country's polarisation and social dissolution? Two: Who will secure the rights of our other party citizens who are not members of the president's party? I expect a straight answer without demagogy.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0317par0273	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0318par0274	Thank you, Mr. President. The basis for the constitutional amendment proposal is emphasised on national will. The nation, which has been the blessing of the democratic republic's regime for fifteen consecutive years, has been able by the will of the people to rule this country, ignoring this very will today and ignoring all the legal tools that this people have given you, including all the legal and responsibilities they've created, seeking a constitutional act. You say change of the government system, where are the obstructions and difficulties of the government's executive authority for fifteen years in this legal arrangement, and in the legislature's legislative activities? Where is the motive for this draft, Mr. Secretary? This is not a change of government system; this is handing over all authority and responsibilities to one person, the forces that guarantee all democratic functioning state mechanisms, to eliminate the separation, to give up all authority to one person in balance and without supervision.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0317par0277	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0319par0278	Thank you, Mr. President. You're saying you're going to bring Turkish-type president with the new constitution. I looked at the sources, but I couldn't find a concept called Turkish type, and I couldn't find a definition. What does that mean, Turkish? ▪ Turkish is the common name of those who make up a nation; it is also the name of our republic. It is an insult to this nation and to the republic to bring it together with......... with........ I advise you not to call the name of the only manly regime you wish to bring with a lofty concept such as Turk. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0320par0281	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0321par0282	Thank you. You're saying: "We bring responsibility to the president who is innocuous." It's clear that the President's criminal responsibility can't be carried out. First of all, it is almost impossible for 360 MPs to be investigated and 400 MPs to make a Supreme Court decision in a regime where the party's president has established the majority of legislation. On the other hand, it is not possible for the life under threat of dissolution to make such a decision at any time. Even if that were possible, he would not be able to judge the President of the Constitutional Court, where he appointed his judges. Yes, in this case, do you bring responsibility, or do you absolute irresponsibleness?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0322par0285	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0323par0286	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, we've been discussing the presidential system for five days at the General Assembly. Apparently, there will be no winners in this discussion. The articles are passed by a vote between 338-343, which means that more than 200 MPs do not say yes. There's something wrong with this, not the law, but the Constitution. Let's say the vote falls below 330. There won't be another winner. If there's a referendum, it's for the great nation, but as a result of the vote there, there won't be any winners. If he says yes to 51 percent, he will be unhappy with the remaining 49 percent. In any case, we're doing a job that will make half the people unhappy. It is clear that the presidential system is not fit for our nation and must withdraw immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0324par0289	Mr. Gürer, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0325par0290	In five days of talks, you usually make evaluations at a point where this new arrangement is the same as the old one. What's the reason you can't even defend your offer here? Second of all, if you're looking for a type that's -- you've just been told -- it's an unsavory constitution for me, because it's not very good for you to think about a constitutional amendment like this that no one in the world has ever thought of. Third: In the future -- a mortal -- may God grant the president a long life -- there's no telling who the future will be if something happens. Why do you need an arrangement in such a future where the country will be in turmoil? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0326par0294	Thank you. Now to answer the questions, I leave the word to the Minister of National Education, Mr. Ismet Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0327par0297	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I don't agree with the idea of social dissolution or polarization. Having a different view of a situation about a proposal, about a substance, about an event, doesn't mean social polarization. Look, 80 million of this nation's national security concerns on July 15th and...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0326par0299	Mr. Secretary, if you could speak a little closer to the microphone...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0327par0300	Not much longer, the 80 million who knew of July 15th showed the country's national security, national unity, how it came together when it threatened integrity, both in Parliament and in the streets. Which means that six months ago, people from every party that shielded their bodies in front of tanks, cannons, helicopters, now a constitutional change... we think this change will strengthen our democracy. That's how I believe it. Perhaps another friend, my brother, might believe differently. I'd like to point out that it's not an accurate definition of social polarization or dissociation. Another question is, where is the Turkish-type system? Well, there's the presidential system in the world; there's America; there's France; there's Russia; there's China; there's more. Each country has its social structure, its needs, its problems, its human characteristics. According to the American, we need to accept that the British, according to the British, have a system according to the German, that our system should be ours as natural as ours should be ours. There's got to be a system that can solve our problems. The country's future is at stake here, the country's future, unity and unity, the peace and prosperity of tomorrow's generations. These changes certainly seem to benefit a certain individual, a group, or a party. Let us then object. An approach in this form is not the right approach. The main thing to consider here is our country, the future of our nation. The fact that a head of state is a member of a party does not affect his neutrality. In France, the President of France is already president of the Socialist Party, but I feel uncomfortable when no French president is standing up... and a president of the Socialist Party is running the Socialist Party. Who will defend my rights? This president is not neutral. He does not say. France also knows where its democratic standards lie.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0328par0303	Is he being objective now?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0327par0304	In the United States of America, you know, Obama joined Clinton's campaign when he was president of the Democratic Party -- the Clinton Democratic Party -- when he was President of the United States of America. That he should not be voted against the candidate of other republicans, that he should be voted by the Democratic Party for the national interests of the United States. None of the 330 million American citizens claimed that the president had lost his neutrality -- his being a party, and he's a Democratic Party -- caused them to damage the country's democratic standards, rights and law. We're getting a new change. It's understandable that with a new change of heart, people look a little bit distant, a little anxious. However, I must say that these concerns are absolutely empty. And is the President being brought to criminal responsibility here? Yeah, he's definitely on his way. Look, the judicial path against the actions of the President, which he had previously committed as an individual, was closed, impossible. No matter what the President did, you could send him to the Supreme Court on one matter, treason. How many votes did it take to send for him? 413 votes. Now with 400 votes, but not just treason, it's possible to send it to the Supreme Court for every crime, for every crime, for a reduced rate, and for every crime.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0329par0307	You couldn't find 276 and send the ministers to the Supreme Court!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0327par0308	You can make suggestions most of the time, and if this is 600, it will be 301, and the decision to open an investigation will be made at 360, and the transfer to the Supreme Court will be given by 400. Therefore, the President has a criminal responsibility. According to the previous Constitution, the president's responsibility has been increased.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0330par0310	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, your time is up. Congressmans, there are seven motions on the 9th article, five of which are the same property. My first five motions are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main law proposal (2/1504) is to be replaced as subsidized by Article 9 of Article 2709 and the last joke of Article 105 (which is changed to Article 2709).
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0331par0318	We're pulling the motions.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0330par0319	The motions of the same nature have been drawn. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 9th amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, which is currently in session, be removed from the text on the grounds that it is contrary to the Constitution. Engin Altay Levent Sky Free Special Ahmet Haluk Koç Tekin Bingöl Mevlüt Dudu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that the 9th article of Law Proposal 447, which will be discussed in the General Assembly, be removed from the proposal text. Meral Danış Behştaş Behçet Yıldırım Does the commission agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0332par0332	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0330par0333	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0333par0334	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0330par0335	Adıyaman MP Behçet Yıldırım demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0334par0338	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on the 9th amendment to the Constitutional Amendment. I salute my dear people, my co-captains, my group's vice presidents, my fellow lawmakers, who are watching us at the beginning of the General Assembly and their screens. We've had several applications to the Department of Justice to meet our fellow Regents, but unfortunately, they've always been rejected. I'm worried about the health of your friends there. As a doctor, as a physician, I feel the pain, the sadness of not being able to visit them. I'll leave that to the public. Yes, my friends, I condemn the violence that took place in the House yesterday and the day before, and the post-pollemics that took place here. It is not appropriate for our Parliament to have the unpleasant appearance of words such as the low level of parliament -- which my colleagues have joined -- the dog, the rabid, the buzzing, the apocalypse, the apocalypse, the karantine. We're conducting legislature activities here, but Congress and society are so tensed that tolerance and respect are in the way. The tension here is unfortunately reflected in society. In the budget talks, let's reduce this tension, disband this atmosphere, avoid the rhetoric that will make Parliament and society nervous, and keep our inner peace. He said, "The biggest responsibility in this matter is the Ministry of Health." I even gave you the World Health Organization's definition of health. I think it should be used by the Ministry of Health, who understands the psychology of the community, who develops solutions, objective, objective institutions and institutions. But unfortunately, our Minister of Health is the head of those who are most tense in this House. Why do you vote openly? It's none of your business to be aggressive and aggressive with a substitute friend who says, "Why do you vote openly?" I don't know if I'm going to ask you. It's a very unpleasant image of you. If a Minister of Health is acting like this, you guys should think about the rest. Congressmans, even the beginning point of the Constitutional debate is against the Constitution itself. Yes, the constitutions can be discussed, changed in this country as well as in any country, but the constitutions are not accepted to fit into the actual situation. Constitutions are texts that guarantee the rights, the law of a person who is weak, by limiting the mechanisms of strong executives of institutions and structures, such as executives, administration, as guarantees by citizens. It's a constitutional offense to abuse the government's executive authority to create additional areas of power, to overstep its own authority. Running the country is not about being a government with the majority of the people, it's not about taking the majority behind it and doing everything. Constitutions are norms that, in essence, guarantee rights, laws, justice criteria, citizens and minorities against the state. It is clear that this law will deepen the present chaos, not the emergence of this wretched situation. Single-mindedness sets the stage for impacts, my friends. Congressmans, we don't have 11 of our fellow deputies here today who are supposed to be doing legislature activities. The House is incomplete because of their hostage taken. Votes don't mean much to us either. One of the reasons we don't vote is that it's unfair. We don't agree with the monotheistic, authoritarian way of ruling a single person's future. One person is not greater than the whole of Turkey. I hope this offer doesn't pass through the House, and if it passes, there will be a referendum on the terms of the State of Emergency against all pressures of power. However, we will explain that Turkey does not have a recipe for salvation; rather, it will be run even worse; it is a law aimed at saving one person. We're not just going to tell our base, we're going to tell the AKP base. The miscalculation will always come back from somewhere. Some will say yes in the name of Kurdish hostility, in order to save the party that is about to melt, in order to capture the government's staff. Others will say yes if we don't say yes, it will be an early election, and my proxy will fall. They will say yes, for fear of the threat and blackmail of the court. But we will listen to the voice of our people. Hundreds of people call us every day, e-mail us, say no, please. We'll say no. I voted my first vote when I was in the 2nd grade of medicine. I said no to the Constitution of 1982, the Constitution of Canaan, the Constitution of the Universe, and I'm going to say no to that offer today. I was in a happy minority that day. I think I'm lucky to say no. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0335par0349	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 9th amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, which is currently in session, be removed from the text on the grounds that it is contrary to the Constitution. Mevlüt Dudu (Hatay) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0336par0356	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0335par0357	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0337par0358	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0335par0359	Hatay MP Mevlüt Dudu wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dudu.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0338par0362	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the Republican People's Party motion. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, the 9th article of the proposal we're discussing is a criminal responsibility based on the President's criminal responsibility but not on it. The bidders here say that in our current Constitution, the President has no criminal responsibility, the President is irresponsible, we are making him responsible. But what should be noted is that the President must be compared with the President's responsibility for today's Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers. And when we do this comparison, we see that the current arrangement is enough for the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers to be transferred to the Supreme Court, with a population of 276 per cent to go to their criminal responsibilities, but with this arrangement, 400 MPs, so much more, much harder, and who's going to do it? It is likely that the Parliament, which the president has appointed for the majority, will do so. So, who's the Supreme Court? 12 members of the Constitutional Court are again elected presidents, and the judges appointed by the president will judge the president. My dear friends, when we review the entire proposal, it is noted that this new constitution was built on total insolventness, accountability, and incalculableness. That's very remarkable. No vote of confidence, no questions. Mr. Lamb here, yesterday on this bench, he said that over the years, he was given as many as this number of genes. Only two of them were accepted, and the rest were rejected. Therefore, there's no point in the geneorial establishment. That's why we didn't put it in the constitution. That's what they said. So, what this means is, there's never been a fire in this House, so let's put all the fire-related measures aside, and I'm just saying, Mr. Lamb is good that I don't have a teacher. My dear friends, today a AKP MP has told me that we will answer for the last two hundred years. He explained the beautiful event, actually, that the inside of it, the real intention, was very beautiful because I'm telling you this: Westernization, modernization, democratization in Turkey started 200 years ago. The Senedi Alliance, the Order of Tanzimat, the Declaration of Islam, the Legislature, the Second Legislature, of course, has brought great gains to the republic. The Republic took sovereignty from the palace and gave it to the people, gave it to the people. I thank them for bringing this statement, for their real intentions, that is, we have come to the time to land from the tram of democracy. I thank them for revealing their true intentions. My dear friends, you're building a dress here, you're trying to build a new constitution, you're making this dress specially for one person, but remember that you have a weakness for deception; the PKK has deceived you, and be careful now that no one is deceiving you, and I'm clearly saying here: this is my dear friends who can't wear that dress.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0339par0367	Are you threatening me?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0338par0368	There's been an early election debate for two days; yesterday, our group's deputy said what was necessary, and today, Mr. President has joined this caravan. You already have your intentions, and you're very keen to make two choices together. So let's make this my idea, and I say, let's do the presidential election and the parliamentary election together. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0340par0371	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0341par0373	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0340par0374	Mr. Altay, I promise you one minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0341par0378	Mr. President, thank you. In the votes of all of the proposals, the 1st, the 2nd, the 3th, and the 5th Articles, the provisions ordered by the Civil Charter were not followed, but we have observed that the provisions of the 4th, 6th, 7th Amendment were in part according to the ordinances ordered by the Civil Code. However, a vote was held again in the vote of Article 8 which the Civil Code did not order. Our desire, our wish is that we demand that the vote be carried out in accordance with the rules as well as with the Civil Code, just as it is done in the 4th, 6th, 7th Articles. I've been promised that.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0340par0380	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0342par0382	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0343par0383	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0340par0384	One moment, Mr. Bostanci... Mr. Altay has made a request, which is our primary duty. In accordance with the Civil Charter, the votes were held in all the articles -- along with necessary warnings -- in the same way that the Law and the Civil Code ordered by making all these votes. Now, let's go to the 9th Amendment vote.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0344par0387	I'll say something else, I can't get into the system.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0345par0388	Mr. President, from Article 1 to Article 8 of the First Amendment, all items are voted in accordance with the order of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0346par0389	It's not a vote.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0347par0390	That's your bet.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0345par0391	We demand that Article 9 be voted in the same way.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0348par0392	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0349par0393	It's not a vote.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0348par0394	Now we open Mr. Kerestecioğlu's microphone in a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0350par0397	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the first day of the vote, we stated on my behalf, in particular, why I would not vote, and I would like to express it once again. 11 of our friends have been blocked, unable to vote and are under arrest. Therefore, in this House, I would like to submit to Parliament once again that our vote, our word, everywhere and at all times, should be perceived as such a no, which we already think is a monotheist and will not actually bring democracy or any cure to Turkey -- within the nail -- I will not vote for the Constitution proposal, but I will not use it for these reasons. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0351par0400	Thank you very much, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Now, negotiations on Article 9 have been completed. There will be a secret vote on the matter. We ask our esteemed MPs to sit where they are, calmly, beautifully, in accordance with the basics of the vote, and I wish that we could also pass the 9th article as in other articles. In the meantime, I urge our friends, who will only vote in the ranks of the Commission and the government on my right and on my left, to be left to our members of the Presidential Court, not to be invaded, not to be occupied, not to be occupied. Congressmans, the envelopes and stamps will not be delivered, nor will the votes be used before it reaches its core. I again propose how the secret vote will be held on this matter: from the Commission and the government, from the clerk members during the Commission, from Adana to Denizli, from Denizli to İstanbul, and from Diyarbakır to İstanbul; from İzmir to Mardin to Mardin, and from Mersin, to Zonguldak, starting with the Commission, to Zonguldak; one of them will be marked from the book of names, including one of them, and one of them will be placed in the red and one of them will be placed in the red and three special ballots; from the government to Mardin, starting with Mardin and Mersin. The MPs will not be able to vote anywhere but the cabinets to the right and to the left of the presidential stand. The MPs will also vote in the department of the minister's province, where they will vote instead. As you know, one of these stamps is the white one, the red one is the rejection, and the green one is the abstention vote. Once the member will be able to use the game, they will receive stamps and relevant, printed envelopes by members of the clerks, and after they have received the envelope, they will come and vote on the ballot boxes that are in front of us. Now we begin the secret vote in Adana Province. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0352par0412	Mr. President... Mr. President, please give me a warning. There's a pattern...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0351par0413	Congressmans, I beg you, let's clear this area and continue to vote according to voting procedures, please clear the area.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0353par0414	You're turning me on.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0352par0415	What turn-on? Yeah, no, but we're saying there's a pattern, so let's move on.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0351par0416	Guys, let's not vote until our name is read. Please, let's not pile up, let's sit down. We're here. Easy, easy... Let's stop these pile-ups, please. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0352par0417	Mr. President, let's maintain the reasonable order in place.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit04spe0351par0418	Well, my friends now know exactly how to vote, and with the same precision, they continue to vote. Please, friends... [[Votings continued.]] Nursel Aydoğan... [[HDP's order is in the prison. The voices are in the prison.]] Idris Bauken... [[HDP's order is in the prison. The voices are in the prison.]] Age of Ironel... [[HDP's order is in the prison. The voices are in the prison.]] [[Votings continued.]] Besime Konca... [[HDP's order is in the prison. The voices are in the prison.]] [[Votings continued.]] Yes, please don't let our members of the vote wait here. [[Votings continued.]] Nihat Akdoğan... [[HDP's order is in the prison. The voices are in the prison.]] Selma River... [[HDP's order is in the prison. The voices are in the prison.]] Abdullah Zeydan... [[HDP's order is in the prison. The voices are in the prison.]] [[Votings continued.]] Ferhat Encu... [[HDP's order is in the prison. The voices are in the prison.]] [[Votings continued.]] Salaamtin Demirtaş... [[HDP's order is in the prison. The voices are in the prison.]] [[Votings continued.]] Gülser Yıldırım... [[HDP's order is in the prison. The voices are in the prison.]] [[Votings continued.]] Figen Yüksekdağ Şenoğlu... [[HDP's order is in the prison. The voices are in the prison.]] [[Votings continued.]] Have our fellow members of the Council voted? They used it. Are there any members who don't use the game? No. Thank you. The voting process is complete. Put the ballots away. Our members of the presidential court can begin voting and casting in the areas to my right and to my left. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of parliament, the secret vote of Article 9 of the Law Proposal for the Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey: [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0351par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 447. The commission and the government are in place. Now, I'm going to read the 10th article: MADDE 10-2709 has been changed in the following way, along with Article 106 of the Law. fucking F. Vice presidents, proxy and ministers for the President MADDE 106-The President can appoint one or more Vice Presidents after he is elected. If the presidential office is discharged for any reason, the presidential election will be held within 45 days. Until the new one is elected, the vice president will take over the presidency and use the President's powers. If the general election is within a year or less, Turkey's election of the Grand National Assembly will be renewed with the election of the President. If the general election is more than a year away, the elected President, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, will continue its mandate until election date. For the President who completes the remaining time, that time is not of the essence. Both elections are held together at the time of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's general elections. In the event that the president temporarily leaves his post for reasons such as sickness and leave the country, the vice president will be acting as acting president and using the President's authority. Vice presidents and ministers are appointed and dismissed by the President among those qualified to be elected MP. Vice Presidents and ministers, written in Article 81, swear in front of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. If they are appointed as members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, vice president or minister, their membership will end. Vice presidents and ministers are responsible to the President. On charges of crimes against the vice presidents and ministers, an investigation could be launched by the ruling majority of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's integer. The Parliament may discuss the motion within a month at the latest and decide to open an investigation with the secret vote of three-thirds of the member integer. If it is decided to open an investigation, a 15-person commission will be held by parliament's political parties to name each political party as three times the number of members they will be able to give to the commission as much as their power. The Commission will submit its report announcing the outcome of the investigation to the Parliamentary Presidency within two months. If the investigation is not completed during this time, the commission will be given a new and final month. The report will be distributed within ten days of its appointment and will be discussed in the General Assembly within ten days of its distribution. Turkey's Grand National Assembly can move to the Supreme Court with a secret vote of two-thirds of its integer. The Supreme Court's trial will be completed within three months, and if it cannot be completed in this period, then a three-month extension will be granted, and the trial will be final. During the time they are in office, sentences of fifth, sixth, and seventh are carried out in terms of alleged crimes involving their duties. The position of the vice president or minister convicted of a crime that prevents him from being elected in the Supreme Court will be terminated. Vice presidents and ministers benefit from provisions concerning the immunity of law in crimes that are not relevant to their duties. The establishment, removal of the ministries, duties and powers of the ministry and the establishment of central and rural organisations are organised by the presidential decree. The first word on the matter on behalf of the National Movement Party Group belongs to İzmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0354par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the 10th Amendment of the law proposal we discussed. First of all, I salute our General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, Turkey is going through a critical process today under very heavy and negative conditions. Risks, dangers and threats aimed at Turkey's national security are gaining new dimensions every day. Our country has become a priority and responsibility for all of us when we've been attacked from many fronts, and political and economic operations are chasing each other, blocking the mess, setting up conflict and blind combat. It is a historical duty on our shoulders to project the end of Turkey and not let those who act on it, not give them a chance, not to accept it. In this regard, our sovereignty must also be guaranteed by embrace, solidarity, meeting in common values and national truths. Members of parliament, Turkish politics should be able to demonstrate its stance to resolve Turkey's main issues without being inexorably conflict and conflict. In order to see ahead of us, to save our future, to secure the law of unity and unity, we must act responsibly and avoid the traps of abuse and embezzlement. Members of parliament, one of the common characteristics of the recent traitorous terrorist attacks we face as a country is the aim of psychological division and political dissolution in our country. In all examples, such as in Yugoslavia, or in countries such as Czechoslovakia, where conflicts continue and divisions occur over the years, the common feature stands out. That's why we have to embrace our state, our nation, our country, not just the simple concepts of the Constitution, but from the heart and from the forefront, like our deceased martyrs Omar Halisdemir, Fethi Sekin and other heroes. This ownership and binding, we believe, with it, will be our greatest arsenal to overcome the difficult times we are now in as a country. Members of parliament, when we look at all the constitutions made from Ottomans to the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, and finally to the Constitution of 1982, which we are currently using, over the course of a century, it has been made and carried out by an absolute superior authority. The negative impacts of military coups during this process have long felt the impact of the Constitution as well as in any field. The biggest work of coups are the constitutions, lawmakers, and they continue their marks with the constitution they've made. When we look at it this way, the Constitutions of 1921 and 1924 were carried out by people of military origin in the administration, and the Constitutions of 1961 and 1982 were the result of military coups. So, in all the constitutions in this range, our civilian citizens have unfortunately not been given enough attention, and the constitutions have not been made by our nation's elected parliament. It was not considered at this point that future generations' activities were different, along with their historical and historical statements. These constitutions were not considered, and they were not considered, that in time, societies could be changed socially, psychologically, economically, and even technologically. In this regard, it is a natural and human condition for our nation to act on its terms and on its own will, and to change the Constitution, even if they want to. Of course, we shouldn't make the mistake here, lawmakers: If the new constitution is made, all problems will be solved or everything will change at once. After all, it's a clear concept of law that is not only the Constitution where all problems will be solved. As part of Act 3046, which was previously adopted on October 9, 1984, the mandate to establish and remove the ministries, to establish the duties and powers of the governing body, central structure, and rural organisations was to be appointed to the presidential office. The presidential decrees will also be under the same roof that they will be subject to Law 3046 and negotiated. When we look at the decrees in the rule of law issued in 2011, we also see that the organization structure of several ministries has changed, and new ministries and new administrative structures have been re-created. However, at those times, as we put it on these platforms, the shortcomings of these decrees, the errors, are also causing some setbacks in public functioning today. For example, while the Ministry of Customs and Trade was restructured, the Foreign Trade Undersecretary was separated, while there was a Ministry of Economy, the Undersecretary of Treasury was left out of it. On the other hand, urbanism, which is incompatible with the environment, has been merged and the power of the environment has been transferred to other areas when Turkey needs a separate ministry for the environment. There are a lot of examples we can consider like this, valued lawmakers. We all know that the idea of state structure is at least as long as Socrates and his disciple Plato, who had lived since the First Age. If the state's institutional structure can be updated and served more efficiently and faster under today's conditions, our economic growth will be affected. For the past 14 years, it is also important to repair, repair, and repair the aspects of the organization that have been failing in its structure. Here's the punch line, lawmakers, what's our most important common goal? To us, our most important common goal is the development of our country, the prosperity of our nation, and the establishment of a powerful Turkey that now speaks of itself in the international arena. Congressmans, of course, Turkey has had problems that have been accumulated for 14 years, unresolved, and opposition, but today is not the day. Today is the day we talk about unity and unity. The top body representing society is Turkey's Grand National Assembly, and all political structures within it, and political institutions must be able to demonstrate this unity with the expected maturity. So, so far, the National Movement Party has seen this place, under this roof, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as the place where the most important problems, the irresolutability, can be addressed democratically. With all sincerity and seriousness, he has also demonstrated his approach by conducting it with great transparency during his talks at the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The constitutional amendment proposal will be discussed in parliament, 330 thresholds will be submitted to our nation's decision by referendum if it is breached and remains above. We don't see any harm or harm in asking our people for opinions to end the actual contradiction. Dear MPs, the nationalist Movement Party, who believes deeply and is committed to democracy, will respect any decision our nation has to make. With these thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0355par0036	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. The second word on the 10th article belongs to Ankara MP Tekin Bingley on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Bingöl. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We wish you well again, Mr. Bingöl.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0356par0041	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before I began speaking on the matter, there were some assessments in the speech of some of our valued MPs today linking our party to terrorism and the Fetullah Gulen organisation. My dear friends, whether it's the language of that bench or not. Many years ago, our fellow lawmakers on this stand named the terrorist organization "The F-type organization." Our friends who stood on this stand repeatedly were insulted as they criticised Fetullah Smiley, but they were taken down from this stand, and our friends who stood on this stand to defend Fetullah Gulen have spoken with respect and respect. We were right, but unfortunately, the Republican People's Party is being linked to such a terrorist organization today. What's being done? The Republican People's Party is being charged with the arrest of an honorary advisor of our President for using by Lock, a friend who only occasionally gives notes on his own profession. Look, my dear friends, no Republican People's Party would ever catch up with this terrorist organization, with a scoop or a shovel, but a tiny speck of dust about the Fetullah Gulen terrorist organization knows exactly where to go and where to stick it. Let me remind you, my dear friends, that the only party under the roof of this Parliament where its leader was assassinated is the Republican People's Party. To him, linking the Republican People's Party to terrorism is a futile effort. My dear friends, we are completely opposed to this amendment text because of its essence, its content. So I'm going to give up a broad assessment of a substance and make a general assessment. For days, our friends have shown a highly qualified attitude, equipped, information-loaded statements, especially when the Constitutional Amendment was being discussed in the Commission. And this was confirmed by Precious Elitaş in his speech yesterday, saying he enjoyed listening to our dear Vice President for an hour and a half, even if he didn't. Alhak is right, not only under this Parliamentary roof of lawmakers, but our community, thanks to the speakers of the Republican People's Party, have been widely aware of what a change this constitutional amendment is. We insist that this constitutional amendment is a regime change. This is a regime change. This is a change of management. Even if it is said, it is certainly a change of regime. Why? This change is a change that dynamites the parliamentary democratic system. The parliamentary system is most ideally meaningful with the republican regime, becoming an ideal form of governance under its roof. My dear friends, for the first time in his long history, a great understanding of governance, such as the democracy that began with Magna Carta, faces such an unresolved, baseless, illegal, antidemocratic text. I'm afraid that if this text comes out, if this change becomes legal, then our republical project, which aims to stop being subjects and become honorable, equal citizens, will suffer. None of us should consent to this, we should all oppose it, dear friends. Every chance we get, we're talking about the Veteran Assembly, it's true; every chance we get, we're talking about an Istrill Medald Assembly, it's true. This proverb that is written on the back is ours, not a common proverb, but we hold fast to the proverb, and let's go to the nation at every opportunity, and appeal to the rule of the nation. It's called, "Let's go." [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, there's been anxiety for two days, there's been talk of something for two days: early election. And my friends say it's a threat and blackmail. Why? Why was this brought up all of a sudden? What's the rush? What's the rush? There's a concern, a concern has begun. The early election is now being voiced, but the text of this amendment meant that 2019 would be held in November, not early elections. If this isn't a negotiation, then why is it being said now? That is with which there is doubt. If you had said, "If this amendment was passed, the parliamentary elections would have been held in November 2019." And if you had said, "If not, early elections would have been held." But what are you doing now? He's turning into a threat and blackmail element. There's a lot of talk going on these days. The signatures of 133 of our fellow lawmakers are in front of you in an hour. Come on, let's make an early election. (HPP clapping in rows) However, you were instructed to activate the YSK, so the YSK had already prepared. They change their name, instead of a referendum, they call it an early general election, you run like lions. People get you over 330, you come in here, you don't check stamps, you don't brand, you don't press, you change the Constitution. Come on, we're ready, we'll make an early election on any day you want; let's do it, and you can make a change here. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, my dear friends, this country has gone through a lot of trouble, this country has paid a lot of money in the past, people have been confronted, right-wing-left camps. The left-wingers are on their way with independent Turkey, the economists say Turkey is a nationalist...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0357par0051	We said, "Fuck imperialism."
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0356par0052	...but their basic value was Turkey. Now, I believe that those who defend that independent Turkey will say, "Stop this constitutional amendment, stop this reactionary understanding!" And those who share the ideals of their conservative world, they will surely take a stand here and out there, thinking about the past. I believe that from the bottom of my heart. Turkey is not so easy to get into a situation. Turkey has come through serious costs. The love of the land is the greatest of love. We're going to act out of love. My dear friends, I say that those who vote no will hold a place of great importance in the eyes of history and in the hearts of the nation forever. I'm saying this today to make a note of history, and we're going to see it through. Look, before the 2010 referendum elections, the high-value AKP spokesman who came out here made such assessments that after that referendum change, Turkey would have prosperity, Turkey would have peace, everything would have been a rose. We've seen what that referendum disaster has caused in Turkey. It's not the beginning of the fetullahist terrorist organization's branch release, it's the beginning of hand-baby growth, it's the first time. For 14 years you've been filling everything, making your way, and then coming back, playing the innocent. Don't spoil it like that! He will surely, surely, be called to account for this one day. [[Applause from CHP rows]] This text of change is a regime change. Now it's not a regime change. The claims of those who call it the regime are decaying; the anxiety is from here, the anxiety is from here. The late Ismet Inönu made a very good statement to such situations, and said the Innu: "You are committing crimes against the people, against the Constitution, against democracy, therefore you are in the hurry of the criminals. It is as if it were said for today, as if it had been said for today. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0358par0058	Thank you, Mr. Bingöl. On behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, it belongs to Mush MP Ahmet Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0359par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, it is not possible for us to be disintegrated from the historical context of the way we're handling the way that we've been able to move all of the values of our existence from the image of human history to the present day and the way that we're handling the way that we're managing the state as a form of living together today. Now, there's a rare range of values in the world where metaphysicists and materialistics don't contradict each other. Metaphysicists and materialistics, for example, do not contradict this: this plant first existed alive on earth, and then the animal began to live on this earth, the last species of life on earth is human. This is one of the points where metaphysicists and materialistics don't contradict each other. Again, a reality that neither conflictes with one another, nor that all of his scientific works are accepted by all of the societal beliefs, is that man appeared on this earth alive about a million, eight thousand years ago. I mean, we as humans have been there for a million, eight hundred thousand years -- all the scientific work, anthropological data that's been done -- that's what we've been doing. However, as a community, we've only been here a hundred thousand years. I mean, the culture of living together and the understanding of common values is a hundred thousand years old. I'll come down even further by narrowing the scale; there's only five thousand years of writing and government in this 100,000 years, the 100,000 years of society's history. I mean, there's only 5 percent of our culture of living together as a society that has a state and written culture, and there's no before it. Before that, there are moral values. Community contracts are based on the demands and minimum partners of the culture of life, which human experience has revealed. In 95,000 years of the constitutions we face as community contracts, oral culture prevails. In action, look, let's say that in those ninety-five thousand years, there is no power, no hegemonia, no oppressive culture, in the history of the society where verbal agreements, value judgments, rule. With the state, the class society has been exposed; with the state, the equality of men and women has been revealed; with the state, the rich and poor have emerged; with the state, the ruling and ruled groups have been revealed; with the state, the exploiters and the exploiters have been exposed. For him, we bless the government very much. Throughout human history or written culture, we can give examples of many who have considered the relationship of state, politics, and men, each a philosopher of their own age. During Islamic enlightenment, Middle Eastern scholars, or the modern philosophy of enlightenment, there are serious artifacts left behind by those who ponder state-political relations. There are serious historical deductions and serious human heritages from the slave state to the modern state we live in today. The philosophers of many different ages, such as Imam Gazali, Ibn Haldun, Veysel Karani, Althusser, Foucault, Nietzsche, Machiavelli, Wallerstein, or the Zizek who are still alive today, each made serious suggestions for the state-political-power relationship. But I would like to draw attention to Hegel, especially among them. Hegel describes the modern state as a mechanism where power meets justice. So, as a political and ethical entity, the state must exist as a mechanism. According to Hegel, those who use the state for their own power reveal the form of state as God's flesh and blood on earth. If the state is the stick of power, if the government is a power device for the rulers, it is now perceived by those who govern the state as God's zuhurat on earth. Dear friends, let's move from here to state that I can suggest for each of these philosophers a serious, demeanour and suggestion, doctrines, but in particular, in case the ruling party convinces the MPs, let me say that the way to govern the state should include humility, the way to govern the state must contain wisdom, the way to govern the state should include a moral, virtue, right, truth. From here, Veysel Karani, born in Karen, Yemen, is one of the first Muslims. Veysel Karani, who has done some very serious work on the state-political relationship and is in Baykan district of Siirt. He says: "I have sought the heights, I have sought the humility, I have sought the dignity, I have sought the spirit, I have sought the protection; I have sought the presidency; I have found it in counsel; I have found wealth; I have found it in penitence. You know, we make many references to the Prophet Hazreti, the Islamic enlightenment. Veysel Karani says: "I have found the presidency in counsel, I have found honor, I have found wealth in trust, I have found the height in humility." Let's at least try to get some out of here. When we rule, once we have the support of the people, the position that governs, let's not see ourselves as the glory of God on earth. Now, in action from here, look, it's always suggested that the president was chosen by the public to turn the actual situation into a legal situation today. Now, in a referendum in 2007, only the election of the presidency changed, its powers haven't changed, its powers haven't changed, the width or tightness of the management area has not been altered, only this Parliament's elected President was elected by the people for the first time in 2014, as it was performed. The fact that one form of choice has changed doesn't change one person's powers. For example, if Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu was elected President in 2014, would the actual situation and the legal situation continue? On August 10, 2014, would there be a conflict of legal status and actual status if he had been elected President? That's a problem with the person then. This is about the failure of a person to accept his own authority, his own ambition, his ego, as Veysel Karani. Look, with movement, I don't know if this will pass through the House or if it will pass through, or if it will not get approval from the public in a referendum, but Mr. Prime Minister Buli Yıldırım gave such a speech here on Monday that if this doesn't pass through the House or if he doesn't get approval from the referendum, he's bound to abandon this mission. He made it very clear, sacrificed himself, said that this system didn't work, that the system had become a wreck. Speaking here on Monday for 30 minutes, Mr. Buli Yıldırım put a stop in his political life if it did not pass through parliament or not get approval from the referendum because he said that the place where I'm doing his job now is finished, it's a wreck. He tried to explain to the country the personal problems that only a failed system has uncovered between him and the President as a system problem. Again, let's put it this way: Yesterday, a valued leader of an opposition party said, today morning, the President, and in the afternoon, the party spokesman of the ruling party, linked the outcome of the vote with the outcome of the vote. We know very well that these three explanations are synchronized, they're intangible; they're not independent. What if it's not...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0360par0073	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0359par0074	...when this has been being discussed for months, why hasn't an early election been mentioned, but within two days, the leader of an opposition party, a President, and a ruling party spokesman have made these statements in a row? Now, Benjamin Franklin says very well that Benjamin Franklin says that whoever gives up his freedom for temporary security and office has fulfilled his life as a human being in this world. I say that if we, for the sake of the legislature or any other office today, give up our existence and our morality and the morality of this profession, we will be very narrowed down in this world. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0361par0076	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0360par0077	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0361par0078	He's making compelling comments about our group president, Your Honor. It's not right. This is obviously bullying our group president.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0362par0079	About who?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0361par0080	Head of the AK PARTY Group.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0363par0081	What did he say, Mr. Mush?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0361par0082	If this does not pass, he must resign. He's tied himself up. He's making comments like that.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0364par0083	What's with the teasing? He didn't say?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0363par0084	I'll give you two minutes for bullying. Please don't let us make a new taunt. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0364par0086	Mr. President, didn't the Prime Minister tell you that the other day? What's the big deal?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0363par0087	Mr. Müsh will now express himself. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0365par0091	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have made a speech here regarding the package, our President, our Group President and Prime Minister, and explained why the system is being brought in, why this system is needed, and in his speech, we are not a lover of the authorities. It's the future of the country; it's the system itself. Because criticism has shown that the issue is being drawn to very different points and that our President of the Group does not allow our Prime Minister to speak to them. I'd like to point out that we don't think it's right to try to make a different meaning out of this coercion. Second, this will be voted here, and our call to Parliament, to all lawmakers is this: We all say that authority is unconditionally a nation, don't we? We are here to represent national will. So, here we support this proposal, it could be those who disagree, it could be those who don't. So, umpire, let's hold people. Let's take this to the people, and let them decide what's rightfully ours. Let's all respect that decision and let this debate go away. In the end, we're not gonna get anywhere by smuggling this out of the community. We're gonna figure this out. Another, the challenge is that everyone, someone is challenging. Dear lawmakers, when the election is to be held, how to do it is decided. But there's a good saying: "The defeated wrestler is not satisfied with wrestling. " I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0366par0097	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0367par0098	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0366par0099	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0367par0100	Mr. President, Mr. Mush, someone is challenging you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0366par0101	Did he mean you?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0368par0102	He meant us. We're shooting like lions.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0366par0103	Wait... let's ask Mr. Mush, did he mean you?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0369par0104	Sir, we're the ones who call the shots. Yesterday, the day before yesterday, we're the ones who call the shots.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0370par0105	Sir, I said the defeated wrestler won't be satisfied with wrestling. They must have been taken over.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0371par0106	We call it a challenge, brother. Let's go!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0372par0107	Wait a minute, Mr. Sky...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0373par0108	Mr. President, I can't...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0372par0109	Wait a minute... let me talk to him. Now, Mr. Mush has taken the oath and spoken on the speech of Mr. Yıldırım. He made his own statements, without challenging any taunts, without mentioning a group or a name. I mean, I don't see any bullying here.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0374par0111	No...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0375par0112	No, he just said...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0374par0113	The challenge is to challenge...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0376par0114	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0377par0115	One moment, this is Mr. Sky speaking.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0378par0116	In his speech, Mr. Müsh said, "When is the election going to take place?" He said, "The law is clear." Then he said, "Someone is challenging us, as if we were talking nonsense."
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0376par0117	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0379par0118	He also said that the defeated wrestler would not be satisfied with wrestling.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0378par0119	Now, look, we don't have to challenge you for nothing, and...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0380par0120	Okay, he didn't mention your band, your name.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0379par0121	Us, us.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0380par0122	No, there could be people out there, there could be another group, there could be someone else, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0381par0123	They're very touchy tonight.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0382par0124	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0383par0125	Mr. President, I don't think you should push it, let us make a statement about this.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0384par0126	Wait a minute, I'm listening to Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0382par0127	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0383par0128	We're the ones who say, "Let's go!"
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0384par0129	Wait a second.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0382par0130	Mr. President, I say the defeated wrestler is not satisfied with wrestling. Is this the pyromaniac Republican People's Party, they should say, is that the Republican People's Party?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0385par0131	We're the ones who say, "God forbid!"
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0382par0132	Who's that wrestler? If the CHP agrees to this, let them say so. The defeated wraith would not be satisfied with wrestling.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0386par0133	Mr. President, we have officially spoken to Mr. Elitaş here the day before yesterday that the opposition is running away from the election. Now, I mean, you don't need a recipe for Arife.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0382par0134	Then it's obvious that the defeated pehlivan is the defeated pehlivan of the CHP.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0387par0135	Yes, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0386par0138	Mr. President, before this constitutional proposal comes to Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister and government officials have made it very clear that there will be no early elections in Turkey, that the elections will be held in 2019, at normal time, in all records. In fact, it has been expressed in person that rolling the early election into the language would damage the country's economy and almost mean the equivalent of betrayal, all of which are in the record.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0382par0139	Mr. President, why did you give me three minutes?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0386par0140	However, after the discussion of this Constitution proposal and it passed through the commissions, a number of questions began to appear in the minds of the General Assembly. His concern for voting on all Articles and the Constitutional proposal was dominated by the ruling party's group, the Prime Minister, all ministers, starting with secret ballots. Of all the MPs, the prime minister is here; with a control, censorship, an understanding that he does not trust the MP, votes have been started with an understanding that sees the votes and is still being held. Then, yesterday, a statement launched by Mr. President of the National Movement Party was supported by the President of the Constitutional Commission, and today the election comes to the agenda when the parliament is not working at its weekly meeting. Now, dear friends, look, if the Constitution doesn't go through with the offer, that's the critical part now, that's the unethical part of it, that's the non-political side.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0388par0144	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0386par0145	Mr. President, give me half a minute to finish.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0388par0146	We've been on top of two minutes. It's been four minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0389par0147	No... no...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0388par0148	Finish your sentence, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0390par0149	Now, after these words were expressed here yesterday, the day before yesterday, Mr. Elitaş, deputy leader of the AKP Group, said, "Is the opposition running away from the election?" We left right away, we said...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0391par0150	Get to the wraith thing.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0390par0151	Look, for moral reasons, before this Constitutional proposal is passed, we thought we'd make an early election decision tonight, so we thought we'd challenge it. (CHEERING) Did we say, guys? Did we all clap? We stand by that promise. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you want to do a moral, human, legal, political job, let's make an early election decision right now, not after this Constitution offer, so I can see your heart.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0392par0155	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0393par0156	You've been losing 11 times already.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0394par0157	Mr. President, how the votes are held... the votes are carried out in accordance with the Civil Code, and so far the votes -- all of them, nine votes -- have passed 338 votes, all of them 340 votes and more votes from Parliament.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0392par0158	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0394par0159	In that sense, we have no doubt, but I expected that I would also use a statement from here, saying, "Who is the defeated Walivan?" I did not get an answer to that question, and I would like him to answer that question.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0395par0160	Sir, in his speech, Mr. Mehmet Mus, the defeated wrestler is not satisfied with wrestling.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0392par0161	No, no, who's the defeated wrestler?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0395par0162	Sir, no, we're in the middle of...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0392par0163	Now, look, Mr. Sky, we're finishing this. No, please, I'm begging you... we're ending this.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0395par0164	Mr. President, I have an answer.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0392par0165	No, he didn't mention your name, your group.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0395par0166	No, but by pointing at me, I expected him to answer that question. He said, "I will answer that question."
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0396par0167	No, that's not...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0395par0168	I'll answer that question. Why are we running?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0396par0169	Mr. President, there's no such thing. I didn't ask...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0395par0170	Did you or didn't you?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0396par0171	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0397par0172	Then he will answer your question, Mr. Mush. Okay, here you go, Mr. Sky -- answer your question -- because of the bullying.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0396par0174	There is no such procedure, Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0397par0175	Since you've asked, let Mr. Sky answer who the wrestler is. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0398par0177	Now, look, you've got to tell me this: I'm defeated. You're gonna say, "I'm the Pehlivan." You're gonna say, "It's over."
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0399par0179	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are neither defeated in democracies, nor in elections, nor is there a winner; there is only one winner, and that is the national will. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We, the Republican People's Party, have already defeated you, we are the sole owners of power, we do whatever we want. We want to save you from your understanding, my dear friends. The winner of the election is the government of the entire country, not the party he won. The winner of the election embraces and rules the entire country.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0400par0182	I applaud that, too.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0399par0183	Like you, it does not rule the land by polarizing it, by separating it; it embraces the whole country; it does not say my party, my AKPman. We, the Republican People's Party as the Republican People's Party, are trying to carry out our opposition mission in the elections, by the way we have received from our people, but you know that if the Republican People's Party wins and is in power like you, they will do the opposite of your practice; in the first place, they will embrace the parties who did not vote for them; in the first place, they will embrace the People's Party, they will embrace the HDPs, they will embrace the HDPs, they will embrace the MPs, they will be the last to the Republican People's Party. We are on the side of our people; we do not divide, we do not divide, we do not divide; rather, we unite. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0401par0186	We've seen your old apps, we've seen them. We've seen what you used to do, we know what you did.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0402par0187	Thank you. On behalf of the groups on the matter, the last word belongs to Aydın MP Abdurrahman Öz (in the name of the Justice and Development Party Group).
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0403par0192	Half the talks of Mr. Oz will be made, and he has done much for us. The General Assembly is in control of its agenda, and we end it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0402par0193	Wouldn't be a bad idea, actually. It works for me. Mr. Oz, here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0404par0196	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the 10th amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. I salute the General Assembly. Before I begin, I'd like to express my thanks to Mr. Transport Minister, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. President as a citizen who's been living in Goatören for 20 years. The 10th article of the proposal, which we are discussing, is to be changed in Article 106/9 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. Articles are redesigned in accordance with the presidential system. The article contains regulations concerning vice presidents, presidential power of attorney and ministers. According to this, there are arrangements in which the President can appoint more than one deputy, in which a new election will be held within 45 days of the presidential office's emancipation, how the power of power will be appointed, the presidential and ministers must be appointed, the vice presidents and ministers must take an oath in the TBMM, and the appointed members of the TBMMM members will end their membership. As a result of this separation, the 106th article has been redacted, since the legislation and executive bodies have been separated in line with the presidential system. In the last joke of the article, it was said that the establishment of ministries, removal of ministries, duties and powers would be organised by the presidential decree for the establishment of central and rural organisations with the structure of the agency. In the face of the initial expression of the last joke and its contents being established and removed, it is a malicious, political comment, rather than a legal interpretation, to put a different meaning into the creation of the central and rural organizations in the matter. The statement of the central and rural organization is clearly understood by ministries still within the administrative structure, describing a number of administrative structures that would be similar to the regional directorate, which would give no room for discussion at the first reading. The Constitution, however, is not in this article, but in Article 126 of the Constitution concerning central administration and rural organizations. There is no change in the first sentence of the first and second joke of Article 126 of the Constitution, which is the foundation of central administration and the establishment of rural organisations. The first sentence in central administration's third line, the constitutional basis of the country's organization's structure, can be established in order to ensure efficiency and harmony of public services. The statement is not changed, it is preserved. Although this provision in the 126th article of the Constitution is preserved, those who comment as if there has been a change, speak without reading the Constitution's proposal, verbally speaking, or openly maliciously, as I say above. The 10th article of the proposal, which we are discussing with the 10th article, is arranged by the decree of the President of the Republic. The statement is based on who will be used by the constitutional authority in Article 126. There is no new administrative structure and legal status outside the administrative structure that exists in Article 126. Thus, by deliberately misinterpreting this clause, the Federation will be brought. Besides, as an EC PARTY, our principle is undisputed. Again, in preparation for the proposal, it is absurd to discuss federation from a text given by the National Movement Party, which voted yes to the proposal at the time of the General Assembly, where our party worked together. As you know, the 106th article includes arrangements for presidential power of attorney. If for any reason the presidential office ejaculates for any reason, such as the presidential discharge of disease or abroad, the vice president will be acting as vice president. There is no question in the operations relating to the power of attorney that the secondary legislation of how to conduct the power of attorney will be determined by the presidential decree. At this point, the issue of legitimacy, given that the presidential office is being discharged for any reason, while debates are being taken over about the process of acting, but the deputy president, who is acting in charge, is being considered to have received his political and legal legitimacy from the original official, and is essentially determined by who will be acting in the place of the president. Again, since the office is scheduled for an election in such a short period of as 45 days, it is based on the immediate prevention of abuse, such as continuity of the power of attorney, and the re-establishment of the president of 79 million of our people, who are in charge in the case of ejaculation, immediately and immediately. Therefore, my opinion is that the arrangements for power of attorney are consistent with itself. The President's criminal responsibility is also organised in the proposed amendment of the Constitution. This substance, you know, has just been interviewed and accepted. I'd like to make a brief point here. Even the fact that we have proposed criminal responsibility to the President, the management system, which we call the presidential system, demonstrates the sincerity of our proposal. In the current Constitution, if we had not changed the management system and made any changes in Article 105 ▪ that regulates the president's irresponsibility, we might have been questioned the sincerity of the management system change that we wanted to do. However, we have established the sincerity of the change that we would like to make by placing the presidency in charge of the 105th Amendment. Dear lawmakers, the aim of terrorism that we live heavily in the days of the Commission talks and deeply regret is to block the proposal for constitutional amendments that we want to make, to create public opinion in this regard. I'd like to give you an example of the past: in the 2007 referendum -- the referendum that allowed the President to be elected by the public -- when we get up on Sunday morning to vote, we want to be sent a message by the Mountainese raid. The same scenario is being replayed; terrorism is linked to the Constitutional Amendment and the constitutional amendment is being blocked. I know our people are aware of this game; they were aware of it before, and hopefully they'll be aware of it in the process. I believe our people are positive about the Constitutional Amendment. The political experience we've experienced so far is that when you apply for government, our people always vote for the positive, I mean, yes, and hopefully this time will be, because our people always look forward to their belief. Hopefully, I believe so this time too. Dear lawmakers, the aim of this change is political stability and economic development. As I explained above, the president is not being given any new authority or even responsibility. In addition, there is no regulation in our proposal for the Constitution that will negatively affect our people's daily life and change their way of life. Dear lawmakers, as the EC PARTY, we have always said that if our constitutional amendment proposal passes by 330 votes, if it passes by 550 votes, we will get our people's approval, we will go to a referendum, whatever our people say, it will be the crown of our heads. If we don't believe our people, if we don't trust them, we won't say it. And in this referendum, we're still counting on 79 million people, and we're counting on our constitutional package, and we're entrusting our constitutional package to 79 million people. I believe they will make the best decision for the country's future and vote yes, as people who are open to innovation and better as they always do. I respectfully salute the General Assembly, asking that the provisions we intend to bring with the amendment bring blessings to our country, to our nation.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0405par0210	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0406par0211	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0405par0212	Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0406par0213	In his speech, he stated that those who criticised this Constitution proposal spoke or were malicious with verbal information. We're criticizing, so it's an open taunt, and I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0405par0214	It's so obvious. You mean it, don't you?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0406par0215	It's obvious.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0405par0216	Mr. Toğrul, I'm sorry, I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0406par0217	But we mean no harm, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0405par0218	No, sir, of course not.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0406par0219	We don't talk about mouth-to-mouth either.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0405par0220	Then let's get everyone in the public eye. That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0406par0221	But that actually gives us the right to speak to all three opposition parties, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0405par0222	No, absolutely not. What do you mean you're going to criticize everything, and when that side criticizes something, everyone... it doesn't exist.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0406par0224	Look, we criticize everything, we criticize the draft of the Constitution.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0405par0225	Is it a crime to say you're critical? We do. You say, he says.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0406par0226	It wasn't just him, look, he expressed our malice, and he said that we were talking with a bunch of mouthy information.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0405par0227	No, no. It's not like it's any of your people or your group. I'll give you my word on your position, if you'd like, one minute, 60.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0406par0228	Mr. President, this is an open taunt, so why can't we talk because of the bullying?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0405par0229	Mr. Toğrul, no, no, please. I'll give you my word on that. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0406par0233	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we don't judge this bill by word of mouth, we don't criticize it. This bill is clearly a bill that destroys the separation of power. Look, judgment is eliminated, judgment is decided by one person. Legislature is significantly determined by another person. The execution is completely determined by one person, and again, according to the material we're talking about, one person doesn't even give him the number of people he wants, he can take as many people as he wants, and he will determine what their mission will be again. Mr. President, if this country, yes, needs a constitution, there must be a constitution in this country that includes everyone who lives in this geography. We know that this constitution is racist, nationalist, assimilationist. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0407par0237	Thank you. The first word for the individuals belongs to Adıyaman MP İbrahim Halil Fırat. Here you are, Mr. Firat. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0408par0245	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the 10th amendment of the Constitutional Amendment proposal. I hereby salute your grand delegation and the General Assembly. Dear friends, what we would like to bring to the Constitutional Commission and with the most controversial presidential system here, I will try to explain in this five-minute period. There's a lot of debate here that says there's a regime change going on. We want to say that we're going to change a government system, we want to change the parliamentary system and bring in the presidential system. As our Prime Minister specifically stated, the formation of the republic on October 29, 1923 has eliminated the regime disputes. Here, there is no change in the principles and qualities of the republic. Since there is no situation directly or indirectly connected to this area, there is no situation associated with regime change here. What are we bringing here about this presidential package? We're here to bring about the sharp separation of life and governance from certain lines and harshness. Here, in the current system, in the parliamentary system, life and execution are intertwined, while our nation chooses to live, it is determined to run within the law here. Here's what our teacher, Mr. Burhan Lamb, has pointed out: the girl is ours, the boy is ours. Dear friends, whoever has the ruling party here will have the girl, and the boy will have the boy. So here we are, by the way, choosing the president and the legislature separately, with the proposal we've made, and they'll be taking their legitimacy directly from the public. That's why we'll have a system that separates the men completely. The other thing is, we're trying to eliminate the duality, especially here. At the beginning of the execution now, he is the head of the administration by taking authority from the 8th and 104th Articles of the Constitution. The President uses the authority to execute on the basis of his constitutional authority. Another issue: the prime minister of the ruling party, the leader of the majority, is the head of the ruling party. In this way, by eliminating the two heads, the President will be elected separately, and the legislation will be elected separately, and will continue its own way, so the President will have taken direct confidence from the people here; he was one of the most controversial issues here. There is no confidence. Dear friends, the President takes the vote of confidence directly from the public. One of the most disputed issues is that the President is given the authority to dissolution on his own. In the current 82 Constitution, the President has the authority to dissolve the Parliament, but there is no such thing as dissolution of the President of Parliament. The President is heavily equipped, but nothing touches the President. In the system we bring in, both the President and the law have the authority to rescind each other in exchange for the presidential system. For him, in this system -- as we've established, as we say -- the president has more authority to disband the President than to disband the Assembly alone.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0409par0253	It's not a annulment, it's a renovation.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0408par0254	Let's say it's a renovation. One of the most objectionable points here is the gene. Dear friends, since 1960 there have been no motions given to you regarding your client, but I think one or two have passed through this House. Other than that, it's not acceptable if the party that has the majority here doesn't allow it in any way. In other words, the President is irresponsible here; he has broad powers, but the President is not responsible for anything, but this system is bringing criminal responsibility to the President. So, with general discussion, parliamentary investigation, parliamentary research and written question motions here, the President, Vice President and ministers will be subjected to these procedures.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0410par0257	Hero Cloud will be the boss, Hero Cloud. Hero Cloud will be your boss.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0408par0258	Another issue being discussed is the decision of the President. Dear friends, the decision of the President cannot be issued on matters organised by the exclusive law. On another matter, the President... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0411par0262	Please complete in one minute.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0412par0263	Hero Cloud will give the order.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0408par0264	...can't issue a decree on basic rights, rights and homework, political rights and homework. The President has issued a decree, and if a law is passed in Turkey's Grand National Assembly concerning this decree, the President's decision has been eliminated. One of the many things that is said here is that do not fear the people!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0412par0266	The court's advisors will be the boss.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0408par0267	Dear friends, we have never been afraid of the public for fifteen years.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0412par0268	The counselors in the palace, Hero Cloud will give you instructions!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0408par0269	We are never afraid of this nation that resists the coup attempt on July 15th, against tanks, guns, against airplanes, and if it passes by not 367, not 550, as our Prime Minister has indicated, we will present it to our people and we will take what we need from it. Dear friends, here is our nation's man, nation and Turkish lover President Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our Prime Minister Mr. Buli Yıldırım, and this group's only concern is to save the future of our children and Turkey. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0413par0273	Thank you, Mr. Firat.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0414par0274	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0413par0275	Mr. Sky, I'm opening the system. One minute for 60, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0415par0280	Thank you, Mr. President. In his speech, Mr. Speaker made an assessment of his geneor, which he described as the year 1982, which means that no one has ever been reduced to his client since that date. I'd like to share some information on the information of our House. The second MC government was dropped on December 30, 1977. The Mesut Yilmaz government, November 25, 1998; both the government and a minister, on November 25, 1998 due to the Turkbank tender... these are the last events related to the geneor. I mean, I thought it would be helpful for our House to know about it. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0416par0284	Thank you. The speaker said no more than one or two. Now on behalf of the individuals, the second and last speaker, Mersin MP Aytug Thrower. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0417par0292	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on Article 10 of the Constitutional Proposal, which will change the parliamentary republic's regime. In faith and in the heart of the Lord is the country without condition. I salute all who say, "I salute you." Dear friends, for the first time in my brief political life, I'm going to give a speech without criticizing the government. I will direct you, the MPs, and leave you with your conscience and your oath. Our people ask: Why is the constitutional amendment being made during the state of emergency? We can't talk about anything, we can't write anything. Is there anything wrong with this? When Turkey is a pool of blood, when the farmer's back is broken, when the pensioners are crawling, while a significant part of the country is living under the hunger line, why are the people I've chosen as trustees trying to bring the presidential system instead of solving my problem? Is there anything wrong with this? Would the fifteenth, whom we still owe for the sake of taking the kingdom out of the palace and giving it to the people, for the sake of the republic and independence, for the food that we eat, for the sweater that we wear, for the seat that we sit in, and for the mourning that we mourn, wish that the kingdom be taken away from the people and given back to the palace? Is there anything wrong with this? Is it appropriate for a nation willing to die for the sake of freedom and independence of all powers in one hand? Is there anything wrong with this? Our people ask: If one man makes a mistake or is deceived, as there were examples before, will the lawmakers, who he chooses, send the President to the Supreme Court? Is there anything wrong with this? Let's say the MPs send the President to the Supreme Court, even though it's difficult. Can members of the Supreme Court, elected by the President, make a fair trial? Is there anything wrong with this? Let's say they do. As we have seen before, I do not know the Constitutional decisions. What will happen to the lesson? Is there anything wrong with this? He asks our people: Can the President, who is also the leader of his party, represent the Republic of Turkey and the unity of the Turkish nation? Is there anything wrong with this? He asks our people: What if we change the Constitution, and after a while, it becomes too narrow for the President of the Constitution or for those elected? What if, as we have seen before, the President disobeys the Constitution and its oath, a new constitution will be made? Is there anything wrong with this? Is it right for a person to set national security policies? Is there anything wrong with this? Our people ask: What if the President dies? How does a person we don't choose control this country, even if it's only temporary? Is there anything wrong with this? Our people ask: the mayors of the party where the president is president will represent the President, just like the governor and the governors. Is there anything wrong with this? They say that 51 per cent of the selected will be annulled by 100 per cent. Is there anything wrong with this? Our people ask: Doesn't anyone, no matter who is President, be held captive by their human qualities and weaknesses, as we've seen so many examples in the world? Is there anything wrong with this? The dollar goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and Are they gonna scare us with the economy this time? Is there anything wrong with this? Our people ask: You're testing a system that's never been tried before on our nation, and if it doesn't, we'll pay the price. Is there anything wrong with this? Our people ask: Without the presidential system, it is inevitable to go to early elections. The MPs are threatened. It's a perception that he might be a congressman to change the regime to protect his seat. Is there anything wrong with this? Dear friends, there are no winners in this business. There's a lot of votes and stuff going on here.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0418par0313	Then there's no need to be afraid of the people. The people do what they have to do.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0417par0314	There's a lot of votes and stuff on the border.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0418par0316	Then why are you afraid of the people, the people will do what they have to do?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0419par0317	Complete, please, Mr. Pitcher.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0417par0318	As the articles pass, the AKP MPs applaud as they win.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0418par0319	Your fear is fear of the people, of the people. You're cut off from the people.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0417par0320	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If any matter remains below 330, neither will we, believe me. If this goes to a referendum, 51 percent would have lost, or 51 percent would have lost the remaining 49 percent. There won't be any winners. So, before it's too late, let the nation be the winners of this business before they're more divided and polarized. Let's withdraw this offer. Yes, this country needs a good and civil constitution. We see in ourselves the power to make this Constitution together, and we can do so. When we present it to our nation, then everyone wins. Let us withdraw this Constitution. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0418par0323	Believe in the public, trust in the public, the rest is easy.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0420par0324	Thank you. Congressmans, the talks on the matter are complete. Now, there is a motion to continue negotiations under Article 72 of the Civil Code. I'll have the motion read and vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the negotiations of Article 10 of the proposed law be carried out under Article 72 of the Civil Code. Engin Altay Free Special Zeynel Emre Levent Gök Veli Ağbaba Bkent Tezcan III. (PHP 4 = 4.0.6, PHP 4)
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0421par0335	We have a roll call.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0420par0336	There's a request for a roll call before you submit the motion to your votes. Now I'm going to meet that demand. Mr. Gök, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Baykal, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Men, Mr. Emir, Mr. Avenger, Mr. Ilgezdi, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Adızlül, Mr. Bicer, Mr. Kayan, Mr. Çamaak, Mr. Sr. All, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Engin, Mr. Yalcınkaya, Mr. Gürer. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Members of lawmakers, now, our request from the members of lawmakers who have entered the question is to re-enter the system as I have read it in turns, because it has been removed from the system. Mr. Çayak, Mr. Alli, Mr. Arık, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Eylücuoğlu, Mr. Kayışoğlu, Mr. Topal, Mr. Akin. So now we're going to do the QA. I'm going to comply with the previous order and make a five-minute commitment to the lawmakers. Mr. Pineak, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0422par0349	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Turkey does not have the political infrastructure required by the presidential regime as a country where there are differences based on language, religion, religion and ethnicity, as well as deep ideological differences. In the name of this system, you can call it the Turkish type or anything else, but it is inevitable that a oppressive political party structure will form. This system will over-enforce the president, the lack of control and balance angles will destroy democracy, and polarisation will create an environment that will not be ruled in the long term. Don't you have to decide when you're making an arrangement that involves such significant risks, not by thinking about your personal burden, but by thinking about the future of our country and our people? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0423par0352	Mr. All...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0424par0353	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to address Mr. President and his country's fellow AKP MPs who have a conscience: Mr. President, we all know that AKP MPs love and listen to you very much. Today, you exercise all kinds of authority on behalf of the country's administration, and even a lot of extra powers, even when you are not interested. Every word you say is accepted by the AKP, followed immediately. The government, the ministers, the army, the judges, the prosecutors, the businessmen, the media, the chiefs, they're all under your control. What more do you want, Mr. President? Look, there's blood flowing every day in the country, and the crisis has begun to hit the economy, and a lot of jobs are closed, and the exchange continues to rise, and people are unemployed, and they're worried about the future. Why are you dragging the country into such a tense environment? Come and speak to the AKP who will listen to you. That won't help you or the country. Return from this error at once, and it is a virtue to return from error.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0423par0355	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0425par0356	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the anniversary of the death of Mr Rauf Denktas, founder and first President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. I remember the late Denktas, the hero of Cyprus, with mercy and gratitude. Sadly, today, Cyprus talks continue in Switzerland. From the days when nationalism was written in the Five Fingers Mountains, Ver get rid of it, sell it. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey prefers a vital issue like Cyprus to a white stamp. I can't make sense of the fact that in a time when we've been martyring more than the Cyprus Peace Corps in the last year's terrorist attacks, Turkey's only concern is to be seen as president. When the presidency comes, there'll be no more terror that hurts us, no more unemployment that gets six million, no less bread, no less gas, no more dollars, no more seats for just one. Come and withdraw this offer before it's too late. Don't mortgage national will to one person.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0423par0358	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0426par0359	Thank you, Mr. President. With a constitutional amendment, the President will be able to appoint several deputies who meet the criteria for parliamentary election. In addition, the president will be given unlimited authority for top appointments. Thus, this will cause the president to design the state as he wishes. Again, who will be responsible if the president is deceived by certain congregations or groups and appoints them to the most important levels of the state? Again, the president and his deputies will be virtually impossible to prosecute and his deputies will be held accountable to the President. What is the reason why the vice presidents are so protected?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0427par0362	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0428par0363	Thank you. A moment ago, in Article 9, Mr. Secretary of State cited America and France as examples, saying that the presidents there were party members and there were no problems. I'm asking, can you also say that you have no integrity in these countries? Have you also heard that in these countries, individuals of different sects, ethnicities, and political views have not been eliminated in interviews? Can you also say that hundreds of journalists are under arrest just because he's hostile? We know that democracy is primarily a matter of culture, or there would have been chaos in France in those long periods of cohabitation in France, when the President was leftist, rightist or the opposite of Parliament. Can you imagine, as in France, if the President were to become part of a different party, and the majority of Parliament was to be part of a different party, that this regime would be able to function?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0427par0365	Mr. Welleroglu, we must have missed you. I promise you, too. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0429par0367	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, our President sent messages again, saying there is no difference between a terrorist and a dollar holder on the mountain. Our president sends messages from time to time in these conversations. And is it also clear to us from his message that in the coming days, dollar accounts will be blocked, and then those who keep dollars in their homes and elsewhere will be treated as terrorists? My second question: Up until now, all of the Turkish Republic's money had a picture of Ataturk, a picture of Ataturk, removed from 1 TL, and what's the point of that? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0430par0371	Thank you. Dear Maker, it's not your turn, four minutes to go, extra. Now I promise to answer the questions, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0431par0375	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Turkish community has democratic culture. So the democracy is a matter of culture. The assessments are being made, correct. I see behind this understanding that the Turkish community is not worthy of democracy, that it is not worthy of better systems, that, of course, there is a sense that underestimates our nation in that sense, and behind that, I reject it. Because on July 15th, the Turkish community claimed that democracy, democracy, national will, the state of law, were advocating democracy, the state of law, without precedent in the world. As in the Turkish nation of the world, I don't think there's such a culture of democracy and a sense of democracy. If there were such a coup attempt in other countries, would parliament work there under bombs, where people would stand on the streets to the death? It's a matter of culture, as if we don't have this culture. I'd like to say that I consider it a very disrespectful thing to say. Second: ▪ Does the presidential system cause dissolution, polarization, division, disintegrations in society? (For me, it is the opposite.) Why? Because in the presidential system, the late Ecevit became Prime Minister with 21 per cent in the past, the late Erbakan became Prime Minister with 22 per cent, the late Demirel became Prime Minister with 27 per cent, the EC PARTY with 34 per cent in the first period, Mr Abdullah Gul was then Prime Minister. When you look at it, what does it do in this system? The party, which has received a very few votes or representations, is able to come to the country's administration and do whatever it needs to do, but pay attention, it is not possible for Turkey to run a 50.01 per cent vote in this system, but the current system can give 22 per cent to govern. What do you do to get 51 percent of the vote? Now, what does the Republican People's Party have to do to get 51 per cent of the vote -- 26 per cent today? He needs to develop a style, a policy, a propaganda, a agenda, to get the consent of the other 25 percent. The AK PARTY is 49% and we need to develop a style, propaganda, program that will get votes from other parties. That's what other parties have to do. What's he gonna do? It's basically going to normalize the style, it's going to normalize the programs, it's going to normalize propaganda, it's going to attract polarization, not polarization, it's going to bring people to the center, it's going to bring them to the center, it's going to meet politics. We see that the President's authority to bring Parliament to the election under certain conditions and the Parliament's authority to bring the President to the election is essentially a need for reconciliation between Parliament and the President, and it is implemented in the event that that this does not happen. So I sincerely believe that this system will not increase polarization, but rather, it will show better results that will eliminate a number of criticisms that are happening today and improve the culture of reconciliation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is every authority being used today? Right, every authority is being used, but we don't want this system for ourselves, we want it for Turkey; we want it for the future of Turkey, for political stability, for power.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0432par0380	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0433par0381	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0432par0382	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0433par0383	Mr. President, Mr. Minister said the questions asked by lawmakers about the questions asked by our group were asked within a perception and reflection that the Turkish community is not worthy of democracy.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0434par0384	There is no culture of democracy.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0433par0385	Plus, I don't know what he wanted to do when he said he saw a condescending understanding about the questions asked, but it was obviously an insult and an insult.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0435par0386	So if that's what you're getting at, here's my word for two minutes of bullying.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0433par0387	Wait a minute, Mr. President, how else do you take that word?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0435par0388	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0433par0389	What do you mean, if that's how you perceive it... what's the expression?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0435par0390	So what can I say, Mr. Altay?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0433par0391	So Mr. Secretary turns to this group and says: "I see an understanding that despises the nation.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0436par0392	Mr. President, if he's talking, let him talk.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0433par0393	Isn't that an insult?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0437par0394	Okay, I promised not to pick on you, I didn't say anything, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0438par0395	He's scolding everyone, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0437par0396	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0439par0400	Mr. Secretary, make no mistake, this nation has absorbed, embraced, and loved democracy. I hope, I hope, and I see that this nation will not sacrifice democracy, but on the basis of the State of Emergency, Turkey, which puts 13 articles from the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights -- on account of the State of Emergency -- on one side and suspends -- other substances -- but I will not judge your government fairly. He said to the United Nations, "I will not be engaged in human treatment, I will not be engaged in torture." Imagine a government telling the world that I will no longer make a fair trial in Turkey and torture it. There is no lesson in democracy for a government spokesman to give the Republican People's Party to any group, including the Justice and Development Party, let alone the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Shame on you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In addition, Mr. Secretary, remember, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which you will invalidate with this law, the Great National Assembly of Turkey, which you will eliminate the reason for its existence, is the integrity of this nation, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the future of this nation, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the honor of this nation, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the honor of this nation. Those who don't protect them are sons of bitches. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Shame, I didn't see it coming!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0440par0406	Thank you. Congressmans, we will now proceed to motion proceedings on the 10th article. There are seven motions, the first four motions are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main Law Proposal (2/1504) is the 10th article of the original Law Proposal and the 10th amendment of Law 2709 to the 10th Amendment in the final joke of Article 106, which has been changed.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0441par0417	We're withdrawing the motions.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0440par0418	Four motions of the same nature have been drawn. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that the 10th article of Law Proposal 447, which will be discussed in the General Assembly, be removed from the proposal text. Ahmet Yıldırım Merkel Danış Beştaş Signed by the other motion in the same manner: I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the 10th Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, which is 447 rows, be removed from the text on the grounds that it is contrary to the Constitution. Engin Altay Levent Sky Free Special Tekin Bingöl Haluk Ram Candan Üceler Does the Commission agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0442par0435	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0440par0436	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0443par0437	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0440par0438	The Tekirdağ MP Candan Üşeşer who wants to make a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Supreme.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0444par0441	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers were not only a poor and tired nation who lived in the ranks of Parliament for ninety-three years, two months, 14 days earlier, but they set an example for all oppressed nations who had left the war, and they founded the Republic of Turkey. All citizens who live in this land today owe a great debt to those who raised their hands for the founding of the republic that day. I salute them with respect, respect, love. The established republic expressed a full independent Turkey, an honorable citizenship that women and men had equal rights, which meant that human beings could live as human beings. The republic was the sovereignty of the nation, not of one person or group. So, today, you want to change this republic's regime with this constitutional amendment proposal -- let's put it right, let's call it right -- you want to build a system based on one person, a constitutional dictatorship. Just as the founding of the republic is an honorary document for the people who have given the national struggle, the amendment will take place in history as a document of shame. Because you're building a constitutional dictatorship based on the joys of one person with your signatures on blank paper. Because you're giving one person unsupervised, unlimited authority. Because by breaking your vows, you're dragging this country into a abyss with the passion of one person. To make a note of history, you're under a plague, a moral burden that one day you'll be crushed by its weight. As if it weren't enough, you're asking us to mortgage our will to one person. But, I'm sorry, I'm afraid we're not so unconscionable. Dear lawmakers, I would like to address not only the AKP, but the MPHP who gave it to them. What do you want to do? You want to build a sultanial system? Do you want to establish a dictatorship that is the sole judge of everything -- the law, the administration, the judiciary, is not supervised, is appointed by whomever you wish, is deposed? That's something to think about. Is that the kind of Turkey you want? Is this what you see in the 21st century? Is this your idea of national sovereignty? Is that what democracy is? Why do you do this evil to this country? Because that's what someone's telling you to do. Look, this proposal is a huge injustice to those who, above all, fought for democracy, for the achievements of the republic, for the rights of the republic, for those who resisted military intervention, for those who were tortured in prisons, for the dictatorship, for the coup. These people paid a price for democracy, for human rights, not for one man's dictatorship. You'll have to make good use of it. Dear friends, the AKP has been in power for 14 years, running the country by parliamentary system for 14 years. He does what he wants, he relieves whoever he wants. In fact, he fills the government's staff with the comfort of saying, "What did you want?" Now that the black cat has come between him and them, he puts the Solomonists, the Rangers, the kims in the government, just as he wants them to. As he wishes, despite all social opposition, he can pass that law in one day, and in two days he can change the Prime Minister. Well, aren't you asking yourself what we couldn't do in this system? We've been hoping for stability in our country for 14 years, but we've never been stable. For 14 years, Turkey has seen nothing, not just about stability. If you want stability, you'll never give up law, democracy, transparency, that's the way of stability. But let me just say that Ataturk has built a republic from a wreck, and he says that if anyone tries to turn this republic into a wreck again, this country will not allow it, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0445par0449	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm reading other proposals of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of Law Proposal 447, which will be discussed in the General Assembly, be removed from the proposal text. Ahmet Yıldırım Merkel Danış Beştaş I'm reading the signatures of the other motion: Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0446par0460	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0445par0461	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0447par0462	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0445par0463	Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul has asked for a statement on the first motion of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0448par0466	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have received your word on our motion. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, whether you want to or not, the regime has changed. Whatever we call it since the president's promise, the presidency, the presidential system -- they say, "Let's make it constitutional. " So, dear lawmakers, what's the actual situation? In effect, as you all know, the law, the administration, the judgment is now in the hands of one person. They want to legalize it, make it constitutional. So, what can you do with these, precious MPs? For example, you can assign trustees, for example, without any need to investigate the municipalities of a party that you see in opposition. That's what they do with a constitutional status. Without any investigation into public employees, without administrative, judicial, or anything else, you're making it possible, for example, to put public employees out one day that you're opposed to. If you see the press, the TV, the magazine as opposed, you can lock their doors with a decree. Again, in the press, you bring the press workers who criticize your policies to the stand in a pen, judge them with the judgment you have appointed, and you can take them to court for 19 days and 20 days without asking a question. Again, dear friends, you're able to take the leaders of the rival party, the members of the group, the MPs, to the judgment that you don't even trust in the past, and keep them in any way. You can eliminate your opponents with decrees. For example, you can take over 10,000 people, including the rival party's city, county administrations, and even potential voters, and lock them up without prosecution. You can lock their doors on thousands of fraternities, the foundation, just because they're against you, without any investigation. For example, you, the Constitution, they say, smells Turkish, so here are the non-Turkish... For example, you can lock the doors of Kurds' language and culture-making associations, foundations, institutions, without any transactions. Here's what makes it legal, dear friends, the Constitutional proposal we're talking about right now. Dear friends, the governors, on the orders of one another, have been able to ban the rights to perform on the streets in the provinces and districts for months at a time, the rights to make politics, the rights to express themselves in one pen. Just yesterday, Ankara Governor's decision was criticised. Dear friends, in the province of Gaziantep, where I'm acting, it's been extended for four months -- one sentence from the governor, and all the streets, the press, can be closed to freedom of expression. That's what we're making legal. You're throwing out all the executive members, you're putting in the judgment, you're putting it all in one person, and if they don't rule out the direction you want, you can take them right away. In the matter we're talking about, how many are the vice president's assistants, how many are he going to have? There's no lower bounds, no upper bounds. There's no telling how they'll function, how they'll carry out their duties. Again, there's no telling how to dismiss them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Again, this House is being significantly disabled, dear friends. That's exactly what I'm saying is that this is what we're going to do with our actual status. Our people must see this. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0449par0478	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. Muş MP Ahmet Yıldırım has asked for a statement on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0450par0482	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to start by correcting a mistake. Speaking on behalf of him, the ruling party MP has said that so far no one -- regarding the youth institution -- has ever been taken down by a gene, no minister.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0451par0484	Except for two.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0450par0485	I'll tell him that in 1980, before the coup, the Ministry of Inktin Erkmen was taken down by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Demirel. In 1980, there are some of our elders, who are members of parliament, who will remember better than we do. I mean, there's no point in wasting the business, underestimating, making sense because such an establishment has never been run. Again, on behalf of the ruling party, the speaker said that he did not examine the contents of this constitutional proposal, particularly in the direction of the opposition party's oratories, and that we are entering into a protestive approach here over an unexamined, unknowledged proposal. I'm going to the press-- you know, I'm not going to be in a position to blame all the ruling party lawmakers on the blank papers; I've certainly studied this text from the ruling party in detail, but we're going through a process of acceptance from what window we've looked through and looked through. We've studied this text as much as you have, and we're talking about how much happiness this offer will bring to the people of this country. And if not, there's no point in creating such a pollution of information over defeating the opposition. At least we don't walk on delusions. Friedrich Nietzsche says: "The deceptions are such a bad enemy, that they are worse enemies than lies in the face of truth. " In this sense, everyone looks at a business from which they are present, and considers what they bring and bring. Now, this 10th article, particularly in Article 106 of the Constitution, envisions a change from the president's appointment of a party president to assist him, but it says one or more. For example, the current President is throwing out an unlimited number of advisors and chief advisors. I wonder if he could make 30 vice presidents here with the current offer. Yes, he can. Can it make 50? Yes, he can. Because there's no higher number. Could it also be that of his associates, relatives and relatives, commercial ties? Yeah, maybe. Nothing's stopping him. There's no such line. Now, a Parliamentary Speaker, elected in his current state of disease, excuse or abroad, or even elected twice, is acting as acting Speaker of Parliament, elected by both the people and elected by the Parliament. Here, an appointed vice president can represent the president to use the same powers as him, as I've just counted. Well, one is that there's a serious flaw in the lack of the upper limit of how many vice presidents you're going to appoint. A second issue is that the valued lawmakers, when the need for power of office arises in the current arrangement, the vice president of the presidency, not the president of the presidency, but the deputy. That's a problem in two ways, dear friends. First: Parliament Speaker has been elected, but the vice president is able to use authority in any circumstances, without the trust of the public, through any election process. The second, for example, is given more examples than the United States. In the United States of America, yes, there is the vice president, and the vice president is able to use the president's powers in their alibis, abroad, in cases of disease and so on, but he's come with the same choice as the president, and I say we mustn't forget that. In particular, I think this vice president's establishment has a serious problem with numbers and the powers it uses. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0452par0491	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. So the talks on Article 10 have been completed. Now, there will be a secret vote on the matter. The secret voting process will continue in the same shape and condition. I'd like to ask you once again how the secret vote will be conducted. I'd like to ask your dear friends to leave the order of the government and the commission to the officers alone. No one stays in this area except for fellow officers and members of the Presidential Court. Now, members of lawmakers, our clerks are in position on both sides. We don't give out stamps and envelopes without a name. Marking the named MP from the name book, he will receive a special sealed envelope with three round stamps, one white, one green, and one red. The MPs will not be able to vote anywhere but the cabinets to the right and to the left of the presidential stand. The MPs will also vote in the department of the minister's province, where they will vote instead. You all know very well that white means acceptance, red means rejection and green means abstentional. Once the member will use the vote to mark his name in the name book and receive the sealed envelope printed on the ballot with three round stamps from the clerk, he will enter the closed ballot, use the vote in that way, and place the envelope with the ballot stamp in front of the presidential court in the ballot box. Members of parliament, you will begin to give stamps and envelopes to the MPs whose name has been read without piling up or waiting at all. Now we begin the secret vote in Adana Province. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0453par0502	Mr. President, do you realize there's no access to the cabins?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0452par0503	Congressmans, thank you for your sensitivity to the secret voting process. Let's vote calmly before we crash. Let's read it slowly. [[Votings continued.]] Nursel Aydoğan... [[HDP's order is in the prison. The voices are in the prison.]] Idris Bauken... [[HDP's order is in the prison. The voices are in the prison.]] Age of Ironel...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0454par0513	Mr. President, they're always voting open, so step in.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0452par0514	Congressmans, please, everyone's already doing it properly. There won't be a problem if the lawmakers who don't vote and aren't on duty sit down. God willing.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0455par0516	Mr. President, shouldn't you be interfering? Mr. President, what do we have to do to get the MPs to enter the cabin?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0452par0517	Congressmans, we'll continue to vote in the booths, please. We continue to use it in cabins in accordance with procedure.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0456par0519	Mr. President, it's outside. Interfer, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0452par0520	Mr. Agha, please don't interfere.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0456par0521	You do it. I don't, you do.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0452par0522	Yes, Congressmans, we'll continue voting in the booths, please. Keep up the good work, with the same sensitivity.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0456par0523	I mean, that's not gonna happen. They're always open-voting. [[Votings continued.]] Figen Yüksekdağ Şenoğlu...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0457par0527	He's in prison.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit05spe0458par0529	Are there any members who don't use the game? No. Our clerks, our fellow officers, members of the Presidential Court, everyone used it. Then the voting process is complete. Now we remove the ballots, bring them to relevant locations. I'd like to invite our members of the presidential court back on duty for the vote count and the transcript. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of parliament, the 10th amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey is the result of a secret vote of Article 10 of the Law Proposal: [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0458par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 447. The commission and the government are in place. MADDE 11-2709 has been changed in the following way, along with Article 116 of the Law. ▪ H. Turkey's Grand National Assembly and President's elections to renew MADDE 116- Turkey can decide to renew elections with three fifths of its membership in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In this case, the election of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the presidential election will be held together. If the president decides to renew the elections, the election of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the presidential election will be held together. If the president's second term is decided by parliament to renew the elections, the president may run once again. The mandate and duties of the Parliament and the President, which have been agreed to renew their elections together, continue until the new Parliament and the President begin their mandate. The mandates of the Parliament and the President elected like this have been for five years. The first word for groups on Article 11 belongs to the Ottoman MP Ruhi Ersoy. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0459par0016	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the 11th Amendment to the Constitution of Republic of Turkey 447. I hereby salute your delegation. Members of parliament, the strength of the nation's structure is measured not by populations and numbers, but by the power of its will. People's will comes first as a state. Whatever form of government, the state is built on the faith and will of the nation, and if its institutions are powered by that faith and will, then the state is a national state, and the will it represents is a national will. If the state is far from it, it's still far from national, no matter how nationally and outwardly. Nations cannot live far from the goal that is the basis of their existence. No institution is national if it does not turn to people and does not cost the nation by serving them. Anything that's not national is doomed to be kicked out of people's lives, destroyed and destroyed. No regime that doesn't guarantee people's future can survive, the system can't survive. Governments, autonomous institutions mocking national will, and non-governmental structures, gangs breed within the state of the nation's spirit. Then authority belongs to the nation without condition. The word is merely a word. The best sign and the best indication of the weaknesses that have arisen in state authority is the alienation of the state's establishments. The fact that they're not tuned together is the effort of state institutions to be shared by various structures for different purposes, which, unfortunately, we've seen and experienced in our country. It is dangerous for their national beings to have communities that are powered by the nation's spirit, deprived of strong institutions, to have a wide range of freedom and democracy. Anarchy is the final destination of democracy as a result of the absence of institutions that represent national ideal and will, which sustain the state, or fail to do its job properly, even though it is present. The National Movement Party is the other name of an experience that has an important savings in political life by experiencing this reality. Honourable MPs are the name of a nation that has never been without a state in history, who has come out of the realm of jihad and the spirit of gas. Our ancestors, who have said that the state in the Turks is holy in this way. Our late elder, Dündar Taşer, said that the state and Turkishness are conciliated concepts both written and applied them in his own life. According to Tazer, the state is the highest social value, and all other values can exist only in its presence. A society that loses its government loses everything. Each nation has a different view of the state. The faithful Turkish nation, who believed that everything was mortal, saw only the state as a period of time and just accepted it. The National Movement Party is walking through this understanding, and today my country and my nation, and then my party and myself, are acting on this absorbed thought at the root of its politics, which is summarized as an understanding. It's quite understandable that a nation that has blessed its state, who cares so much, and the government's government, has defied every attack on its back, every attempt at its own risk, and with great conviction, it has taken control of its state. There are many riots in Turkish history, valued lawmakers. At the point of setting an example of the state's weakness and the events of today, the rebellion, known as the Criminal Rebellion, is a very important division, similar to the process of destroying the state by a second attempt in the history of the occupation, which has been smuggled into the inside of the state with the appearance of faith today (July 15th). So, with this real movement, we have to act knowing that we're going through the days when society and the reality of the state are reintegrated. Today, within our government, the organizations that I do not want to promote, including the organizations that I do not want to promote, are given to the People of the House. There is a truth that there is an unnatural situation in this country if the focus of betrayal that would trigger the envoy who should not have been zaval is in the image of a police officer and the terrorists who bombed this Assembly in military suits. In action of these facts, the policies of the National Movement Party are doing the opposite of what they said yesterday. In a way, they say, "Has a stone fallen on the head of the People's Movement Party?" I want to remind those who say: "There is no stone at the head of the National Movement Party, but bombs have fallen on the head of the Assembly, and this nation has been ordered to be shot in the face of the custom. The National Movement Party, who saw all this reality, was to say, of course, on a day when the process of destroying the State in particular, similar to the Shahkulu Rebellion, the occupation movement, the state-national bekasi, and with its nation, would be in the process of protecting the state. Knowing these realities, the National Movement Party, which walks from these realities, has shown its ability to distinguish between real politics and ideal politics. Of course, the application of what needs to be and what needs to be in the theoretical plane may not be consistent with the implementation of what is supposed to be, but these practices have occurred and been seen at different times in the Constitutional experience. The experience of the Turkish constitution came from the Law, experiencing 1921, 1924, 1961 and 1982 Constitutions. In each one, he presented new ones with setbacks seen during practice. The 1961 Constitution came to us abundantly. During that period, social reality led to some anarchist events as a practice. Then, by intervention, they were narrowed down, and then they were expanded again, and then Turkey came to these days with significant experiences. We believe that the 18-point constitutional amendment proposal we're discussing today is an initiativeal action related to the reshape of state life in chaos and crisis as content. Of course, there may be opinions and criticism about the content of matter, but one fact is that the Turkish nation can act knowing that the Turkish state is under serious threat and danger. At this point, the National Movement Party supported the proposals by going all the way through the content and details of this clause, trying to bring closer to what is most possible in the ideal. Dear lawmakers, there have been new constitutional debates every semester, and these debates, as you know, have shown the fact that the decision to elect the President immediately after the 2010 referendum and that the process that began after the first president's election by the public should be discussed in the state system and the government systems. Legal criticism of this reality will be widely explained by lawmakers and valuable political parties. But where we stand, where the National Movement Party has stopped, is the restoration of a system that can allow power, power, the mind of the state to concentrate, to act first on the reality of my country and nation, and to get the country out of this crisis and chaos. Those who think it's a joke may not understand it because the bomb didn't fall on them, perhaps they may have different intentions as they walk through this reality. Perhaps they can search for the ideal political and ideal state in Aristotle, Plato, Thomas Moreon, Utapya, Hegel, but with respect for the theory, understanding philosophy, and knowing that no practice that is broken from real political and reality has come to fruition. History and practice in this regard show itself in every field. The Nationalist Movement Party is the sincere passenger and companion of the great Turkish nation, who can open up to the hearts of as many people as it can, without fear of the facts, without removing its feet from the real floor, and struggle to integrate its nation with its nation. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0460par0030	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. The second word on behalf of Grouplan is for the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0461par0034	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the grand jury. We've been arguing here for minutes about the secrecy of the Constitutional vote for about five days before I went over the matter, and there's even been fights, but we can't come to any conclusions about the secrecy that has a very simple meaning, and we can't agree. Let that be our shame. Now, the secrecy is that no one sees anyone when they vote and no one sees the vote. That's not what I'm saying, it's the constitution dictionary. So, why is there such an important issue as the Constitutional Amendment prescribed? The reason for this is a few, but the most important reason is that he can vote free of party discipline, in his own opinion and in his own free conscience, without any pressure. My dear friends, can the congressman give up this right? Is this a civil right or a duty or an obligation or a privilege? Now, there is a principle of public interest that is sought here, and it is not possible for the MP to give up this right when there is a principle of public interest. Now, I've been watching here for five days, and it feels like some of them are really doing it on purpose, and I say, let's go into the cups mixed with the joke. I say, even pretend to enter. There are two professors of the constitution here in our House, from the Justice and Development Party that I know of. One, my brother, there are no secret ballots anywhere in the world. I'm using it in secret, look, do you see me? He says, "Do you see me?" He says, "It's passing, it's passing, it's going into the cabinet," and he even claims, "There's a secret vote only in our Constitution." So I did a little research, and it turns out that there's a secret vote, guys. For example, in Article 68 of the Constitution of France, there is a secret vote in order for parliament to dismiss the President, but in no country in the world, there is no constitutional court or federal court ruling on this secrecy. You know why he doesn't? Because in all of those places, everyone understands what that is, so they don't understand it differently like we do; they don't. I say this shame is enough for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, constitutions are documents of social understanding, and the greater the social consensus on this text, the longer the permanence of that constitution text, the higher its legitimacy. Hence, such a constitution must be brought up with the highest understanding of such a text. So a document prepared in the kitchen of a party can neither wait for this agreement nor wait for that legitimacy. Now, the Constitution votes are being held here. With very few votes, here are the ten votes, the eight votes. Next thing you know, there's a bunch of people clapping. It is likely that in the referendum, the constitution will either be accepted by a very few votes or rejected by very few votes. So there will be no social agreement to strengthen the legitimacy of what we're looking for. My dear friends, one doesn't laugh while the other cries. (CHEERING) Look, you're laughing. This constitution will bring only one man. If this constitution were to come out with these changes, we would cry 80 million people together. This constitution will bring disaster to 80 million, and I want it to be known. Now, with changes to be made, the law is under the command of the administration. Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which has been elected by the public and has always been more than the acting power of the President -- can be elected by 40 per cent, with 35 per cent elected vote -- can be dissolved by the President for no other reason. Yeah, well, the presidential system doesn't have that kind of dissolution at its core. Dissolution is an institution that dates back to parliamentary democracy. How can such an arrangement be made, and how can such an arrangement be made? For example, even in the Assad Constitution in Syria, as we call it, there's no democratic presidential system there; there's a presidential system there, but even there, it's possible that the President of Parliament gives a reason for dissolution. So a parliamentary democracy authority is also given in the presidential system. But there's a separation of powers coming, friends, and we're going to have a democracy. You're telling me about it. Now, for example, a law vetoed by the President requires an absolute majority to be re-legated. This is an arrangement that prevents the House from working. In such a situation or an investigation into a criminal charge, a president can easily disband the Assembly without an investigation, without a vote to open an investigation. Where's the presidential system, where's the separation of powers? I mean, basically, our current President had already seen that when he was Prime Minister, he was a chain of arms that stood up to carry out the separation of forces. Is it possible to expect a democratic constitution or a separation of powers from such a mentality, such understanding? Now, you're saying the system of Giyotin. Brother, where's the guillotine system? The will of one man, and the power of one man more powerful than the House, can dissolve the House. In contrast, Parliament can renew elections by 3/5 if it wants to decide to renew the elections, 360 MPs. It would be much more accurate to call it the unilateral line system, rather than the gyiotine system. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, why do you want to give the President such authority when both of them have taken their legitimacy from the public? We've been thinking a lot about what might be the reason, what might be the reason. The reason for this is that the president will discipline, even threaten the House, and if you don't work with me, I will terminate you. In essence, the House is designed to understand what the president is saying when he looks at the president's eye, and there's no other reason for that. I mean, there's no talking about a democracy here. See, in America, those who made the constitution feared the North American Confederacy's strong concentration of forces. When? In 1791, it was ancient history. So there must be a form of government in the words of Jefferson, who did the Constitution, so that the powers of sovereignty can be distributed and balanced so that none of them can effectively prevent the other from crossing their own legal limits. Do we have this? Now, Burhan Lamb Hodja says: "Burhan Lamb Hodja, multiply the number of presidents of the United States by 4, find the history of America; divide the history of America by 4, find the number of presidents." Now, you've made an arrangement that, at the end of the second term of the President, if he can afford the majority -- which is not unique to you, because there is enough choice at the same time -- the same majority will be in parliament -- let's say four years, eleven months, fifteen days later, will dissolve the House with 360 people. So what now? How are we going to find the length of the state in Turkey and the number of presidents? Is it possible to find it? Another MP says, "Sister, we don't want a president who's been there eight times and nine times. We've set a deadline for our leader. Look, now, since 2002, the President has been acting as Prime Minister since 2003, let's say there's another presidential election in 2019, let's say he's been elected again, let's say he's been elected in 2024, and when he's elected in 2024, let him decide to renew the elections in the final minutes -- let's assume the majority, theoretically speaking. You know what? There is a possibility that he will remain President until exactly 2034, theoretically.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0462par0052	I hope so.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0461par0053	Look, he says, "God willing." Speaking here yesterday, he says: "We have limited our leader's time. What would happen if you didn't limit it from God? He was going to be president until 2034, not 2054? Now, may God grant us a long life, we have no eyes, but with such powers, I don't want to be myself, and I don't want my father to be President, and I don't want Mr. President to be President with those powers. These are not powers that can be given to a mortal, my dear friends, not really. Look, 80 million people are going to cry. You're putting 80 million people's lives -- their future -- I'm telling you from the bottom of my heart, I mean it -- at risk, you know that. I mean, I don't think there's a reason why there's no position, no office, no parliamentary, nothing. Now, as a final statement, we don't have problems today, my dear friends, because parliamentary democracy is underprivileged. For 14 years without consulting any opposition center, even the opposition centers within its own party.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0463par0057	Here, finish up, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0461par0058	...because of the excessive authority of a single-handed power, we're experiencing today's difficulties. In fact, we don't have time or time to talk about the Constitution today. We need to talk about terrorism today, we need to talk about the economy today, we need to talk about education that has gone to the most backward places in the world today. Last word, let's not make 80 million cry. Come, let's withdraw this Constitution proposal from this moment on, as soon as the road is near. Let's look at the treatment of the parliamentary democracy if it doesn't work. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0464par0062	Thank you, Mr. Köse. The third word on the article belongs to İstanbul MP Garo Paylan, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0465par0066	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're discussing the Constitution, we're talking about how powers and forces can be balanced, how they can control each other, and unfortunately, we're about to make a huge mistake. The near historical kings of mankind have passed through parliaments to balance and oversee the sultans, to strengthen the judiciary, and to strengthen the press as the fourth power. But we're about to be thrown to a different point now than a hundred years ago, a hundred and fifty years ago, and we're about to reassert a king, my friends. Look, Daron Acemoglu has a book called the Fall of Nations -- nobel Literature Award nominee -- which I advise you to read. When institutions are strengthened in a nation, when institutions can control one another, the nation prospers in every sense, in every sense; its prosperity increases, its freedom increases, its peace improves, its economic status improves, but when authority is restored to one person, when all institutions are disabled, when those nations collapse. It's hundreds of years of history, and there's no exception. There is a similar situation in Turkey's history. When institutions grow stronger, then our country begins to find peace. When our coven is in place, when the trial is in place, the judiciary is stronger, we all find peace, we start to prosper in every sense. But when it comes to one man, dictatorships, coups, we all get poor. Guys, we're really going through history. We're about to make a serious mistake, and you insist on this mistake, and I'll tell you, you're under the plague. Your children, your grandchildren, you're gonna have to pay for this. Father, Grandpa, what were you doing in those days? Have you voted for this vile amendment? They will answer to you, and you will look at the nose of your right foot and twist your neck, no doubt about it. Let's say you go back from that mistake when the road is near. Look, we need to learn from history, and we need to learn from our recent history. I want to go back a bit. Some people make it beautiful about the Ottoman era, because everything was so beautiful in the Ottoman era, because we were all so equal, some people blacken the Ottoman era. In the spirit of time, however, the Ottoman Empire, like other empires, ruled in multinational geography, and it has a system of nations, with a plural structure, just like Anatolia, and an empire in the spirit of time, trying to rule this structure. In the process of disintegration of this, friends, especially the dreams of freedom from Europe, equality that surround Anatolia, and the remaining subjects are fighting for it, the remaining nations are fighting for it. From the beginning of the 19th century, how are these dreams of equality and freedom framed by a constitution? The Armenian community is very progressive, doing its own thing. The first constitution of our geography is carried out by the Armenian Order and by the Armenian community in 1860. Then the Greeks perform the regulations; Jews, Jews, and with these searches, the feeling that Ottomans must have a coven is spreading. An idea of parliament against the abdulaziz absorption is in effect, and in 1876, along with the First Legislature, our first Assembly is in violation, and the Constitution is in effect. Look, there are 109 members from the first scribes of the Constitution, from the first Assembly of the Constitution: 69, from Muslims, 40, from Christians, from Jews, just like the Ottoman community. You know, we're one in a thousand today, and we're probably one percent of the House, as Christians, and we were 40 percent of the House at the time, and the Christians were 40 percent of the House. What a beautiful majority, one of those who wrote Congress, representation and the first Constitution, friends, look, Krikor Odyan, who wrote the first Constitution. Yes, a commission is working on it and it's writing our first Constitution, a pluralistic Constitution. Everyone finds themselves inside that Constitution, and all nations find themselves within it, both the Christian and the Muslim. Abdulhamid became the king of the House on the charge that he would commit it, but a year later, the Ottoman-Russian War called off the House. After that, you know, friends, it's a 30-year period of employment. Each will last a period of time: three months, three years, thirteen years, thirty years in Abdulhamid, but every desire, see, every need is over.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0466par0073	He's for you, he's for you. What were you doing here today without freedom in Anatolia?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0465par0074	As a result, if you assume someone, they feel like they've won, but if you ignore them, they either go silent, they get angry or they rebel, friends. As a matter of fact, in 1908, the Second Legislature comes into play, and all the peoples are happy again. The Constitutional Tadil Commission is taking over and reinstating a pluralist constitution, but then, you know, Talat-Enver Pasha's first junta, they're shutting down the Constitution of the Constitution of Turkey, as Mr. Mehmet Parsak said today. We're doing the Constitution of Turk. He said, a hundred years ago, we're doing the Constitution of Turk. A junta came into play on the charge.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0467par0076	That's right, the Constitution of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0468par0077	The Turk is not a race.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0465par0078	He shut down Parliament, took out pluralism. Look, I said those who are destroyed will rebel, if they are silent, they will rebel. In that decade of chaos, in 1913-1923, we lost friends, four people, (x)
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0469par0081	There are no genocides in this land.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0465par0082	Dear friends...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0470par0083	You can't say "nurse."
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0471par0084	You don't have the luxury of saying "nurse," Mr. Paylan. There's no genocide in this land, you can't insult the history of this nation in this nation's House.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0472par0085	Mr. Paylan, please correct your words, there is no genocide.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0473par0086	Mr. President, we're telling you to intervene.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0472par0087	There may have been pain, but you can't call it genocide.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0474par0088	Mr. President, everyone's talking about their point of view.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0475par0089	Look at Karabağ for genocide. Look at Karabağ.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0476par0090	You do not have the luxury of insulting this nation's history by making rebels, rebels, and Taşnacian terrorist organizations innocent.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0477par0091	President, he needs to fix it. He needs to apologize.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0476par0092	Even speaking here is an expression of the greatness of this nation.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0478par0093	He wouldn't be able to talk here if that happened.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0477par0094	You can't talk about genocide in the House of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0479par0095	Congressmans, continue orator, do not interfere. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0477par0097	No, let him fix it. Let him keep it that way, Mayor.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0480par0098	There is no genocide in Turkish history.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0481par0099	Mr. President, look, I just said something...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0482par0100	You're a Turkish citizen!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0481par0101	... once we were 40 percent, today we are 1 in a thousand. (x) Whatever you say -- we're 1 in a thousand today, we're 1 in a thousand today.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0483par0102	You shot people in the back, the government!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0481par0103	Whatever it was, let's call it what it was and move on.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0484par0104	Talk about what's under the imperialists!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0481par0105	Dear friends...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0485par0106	Go talk to whoever you're talking to in that council. Go speak for whatever country you speak for.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0486par0107	That's your foreign opinion, stranger. You can't! You'll grow up in this land, then... shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0487par0108	Yeah, learn to listen! Does he have to think like you?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0488par0109	You're hostile to this country.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0489par0110	Mr. President, will you intervene? How am I supposed to talk in this environment?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0490par0112	You address the General Assembly, but please know what you're talking about.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0491par0114	President, know what you're talking about!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0492par0115	▪ He has to take back the word genocide.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0493par0116	What am I talking about?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0494par0117	Know.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0492par0118	▪ He has to take back the word genocide.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0495par0119	Mr. Paylan, how do you judge something that does not exist? What kind of nonsense is that?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0496par0120	What am I talking about? How do you intervene?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0497par0121	I've stated there's no genocide, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0498par0122	Does everyone have to say the official opinion?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0499par0123	You can't insult these people in this nation's House.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0500par0124	Guys, does everyone have to agree with your official opinion?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0501par0125	There's an accusation, it's not an expression.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0502par0126	You shot these people in the back, you found your trouble, that's what happened.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0503par0127	Dear friends...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0504par0128	You can't talk to a stoner terrorist organization on this stand. Let him correct his style.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0503par0129	Mr. President, are you going to intervene, or...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0505par0130	What am I supposed to do? Congressmans, please do not interfere, do not disturb the minister's speech.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0506par0132	He'll apologize, he'll apologize.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0507par0133	Come from nation to nation, nation to nation.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0508par0134	What are you, a baller or an ASALA or something?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0509par0135	The bones in the van, the bones in the Kars, the bones in Erzurum, are still...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0510par0136	Dear friends, the Armenian people know very well what happened to you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0508par0137	Are you a brat, are you a lump, are you ASALA, what are you?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0510par0138	Once upon a time, we were 20 percent, today we are 1 in a thousand.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0511par0139	You've turned from nation to nation.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0510par0140	You name it, I'll take it, whatever happens to us...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0512par0141	You cut us in the east, and cut off our grandparents, and buried us alive in wells.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0510par0142	I know exactly what happened to my ancestor, my grandfather.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0512par0143	You burned our grandfathers in the ovens!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0510par0144	I'm a scrap of sword, as you call it. Come on, name it, let's face it. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, to the Armenian people... look, we're doomed now. Now we're down to 1 in a thousand. If we're going to learn from the past...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0513par0147	You speak German, Russian, English.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0510par0148	If we're going to learn a lesson, come on. Dear friends... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Mr. President, will you intervene? What the hell is this?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0514par0152	Would you look at the expression you're using, friend? What kind of expression is that? What kind of expression is that?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0515par0153	Mr. Paylan, please watch your manners.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0516par0154	No, Mr. President, you can't lead by side, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0515par0155	I said what I had to say. And you can't use hurtful statements on these people.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0517par0156	You can't use Diaspora's testimony here, Paylan.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0518par0157	You can't talk like that on the bench of this House.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0519par0158	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0520par0159	Please... this nation's bench can't be used to hurt these people. This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0521par0160	You can't use Diaspora's testimony here. Where are you a congressman? You can't say that on this stand.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0519par0161	Mr. President, you don't have to believe it, but you can't be biased.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0522par0162	I am the MP of Armenia. If you say so...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0521par0163	I say what I want. You can't say what I want. There's no freedom of speech like that.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0519par0164	If it's a free stand, it'll express itself, you don't have to believe it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0523par0165	Ahmet Bey, this has nothing to do with believing, he's insulting the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0524par0166	Dear friends...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0519par0168	You don't have to believe it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0525par0169	I can intervene; he can't use harsh and hurtful words. I made it clear that he shouldn't use an expression that hurts these people.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0526par0170	You're violating the immunity of the bench.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0527par0171	Where do you get something that doesn't exist?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0528par0172	You can't speak the language of imperialism. You're doing what you always do.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0529par0173	Can you give me five minutes?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0530par0174	Please complete in a minute.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0529par0175	I couldn't talk for five minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0530par0176	I'm sorry, that's not looting. I'll give you one minute to complete your vows, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0531par0178	Well, Mr. President, what looting or looting? Does it suit you?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0530par0180	Yes, five minutes. He's negotiating with me. Does it suit you? Give him a minute, he's not talking yet, he wants five minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0531par0181	You can't call it rain. Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0532par0183	Mr. President, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0533par0184	I haven't spoken in five minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0534par0186	Here, I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0532par0187	Mr. President, that's not gonna happen. Mr. President, that's not a statement.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0533par0188	I haven't spoken in five minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0534par0190	Speak. How will you speak? Just a minute, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0535par0192	▪ He will correct the word "seminal."
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0536par0193	Mr. President, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0535par0194	▪ He will correct the word "seminal." You can't insult the history of this nation.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0537par0195	I haven't spoken in five minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0538par0197	Okay, finish your sentences.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0537par0198	Sir, I haven't spoken in five minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0539par0199	He'll take it back, he'll take it back.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0540par0200	He can't use that expression, he can't use that expression. He can't use Diaspora's testimony here.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0541par0201	You can't insult Abdulhamit. You can't insult Abdulaziz.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0542par0202	Go ahead and finish it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0543par0203	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0544par0205	He can't use Diaspora's testimony here. He can't use Diaspora's testimony here. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0545par0206	You can't insult Abdulhamit. You can't insult Abdulaziz.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0546par0207	We won't make you insult me from this bench.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0544par0208	He can't say that here, he can't say that here. This is the House of the Republic of Turkey. He cannot accuse the state of the Republic of Turkey in its own Parliament. There's no such freedom of expression.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0546par0209	We won't make you say genocide from this bench.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0547par0210	Congressmans, do not interfere. Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0548par0212	If you spoke in the U.S. Parliament, would you say you'd committed genocide?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0549par0213	Mr. President, he can't say that.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0547par0214	Time's up, time's up, please...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0550par0215	Give me five minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0547par0216	Your time is up, please...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0551par0217	You'll take that back, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0547par0218	I gave you ten minutes, no matter how you talk...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0551par0219	Sir, you'll have your word back.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0552par0220	Mr. President, he can't say that, he has to leave the bench.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0547par0221	Here... your time is complete. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0552par0223	Leave the podium.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit06spe0547par0224	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit07spe0547par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 447. The commission and the government are in place. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0547par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 447. The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0553par0004	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0547par0005	Please, Mr. Akçay, you have a request.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0553par0006	I'll talk to him, and then I'll give him a speaker on behalf of the group, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0547par0007	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0553par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. A speaker who had just spoken on the stand, claiming that he had sword residue, that there had been genocide in our country again, and, you know, the cruel and low genocide that had left our country, our nation, and our state under the threat, unfortunately, could be expressed in a provocative way. These are unacceptable and we refuse and we have no patience. [[(Bravo) voices, applause, from the MHP and the AK PARTY]] Mr. President, I believe these statements are a mini extension of some international plans and projects. Therefore, the implementation of Article 161, of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey... of course, first of all, if the speaker withdraws his word and apologizes, the provisions of the Civil Code will be carried out against him. Otherwise, sir, we demand that our Civil Code provisions be carried out and removed from the transcripts immediately. [[A round of applause from MHP, AKP PARTY and CHP rows]] And on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, our Kayseri MP, Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu will make the address.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0554par0016	Mr. Halaçoglu, I'm opening your system, so let's just wrap it up in two minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0555par0018	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid there's no one above this Armenian diaspora and the Armenian side to actually distort events, and I've struggled with them a lot. In fact, Turkey, let's set up a commission of historians and investigate them together. When he said, "All of them escaped; Europe fled, Germany fled, England and America fled." There's a man named Bogos Nubar Pasha, President of the Armenian National Delegation. We have his letter to the French foreign minister, his correspondence with the Russians, all his archive documents. It's called sword residue... but how many Armenians were there in the Russian army? In an environment where 44,000 Armenian gangs, under Nazarbekov and Andranik, massacre hundreds of thousands of people in Eastern Anatolia, how are they leftovers? They slaughtered 518,301 people. Those who know the old Van city will see it right at the bottom of the castle, not if the atomic bomb was dropped, they killed 80,000 people there. They took the young girls to the church of Akdamar and raped them. Many of these young girls threw themselves into Lake Van to protect their chastity; they took their lives. Is that sword residue? Look at the lists of Armenians who died for France in the French army in the French archives. All Armenians, citizens of the Ottoman State. And who rebelled against their state during the Battles of Çanakkale, at the Van, at Bitlis, at the Chatak, at Erzurum? Who were the traitors? Those were Armenian gangs, those were Armenians. Ignore them and think of the rebellion of Zaytun. Think of them in Adapazari, in Bursa, in Izmit, in Tripoli; think of whichever one you will consider.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0556par0023	Congressmans, please, since I'm going to promise all groups, we're going to have to put it together. Please, let's wrap this up in a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0557par0026	Think about all this. Everywhere, in the government, in Sason, in Adana, who assassinated Abdulhamid? What was it made for? Let them look at these. The Ottoman Bank raid... when you gather them all... Oh, and let me tell you, in 1918, three battalions of the French army were Armenian soldiers. Consider the people who were burned in the furnaces in Kozan. Is this the residue of the sword? You go to the U.N. documents, see where the British and Americans live, where the Armenians live. If you're looking for your grandparents, look in the passenger books of the ships at the ports of Baltimore and New York, you'll see where they're running, and you'll see why they're running.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0556par0029	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0558par0031	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'll tell you the last thing I'm going to say. It is impossible for the Republican People's Party to accept the claim that genocide took place in Turkey's Anatolian geography in the 1915s. (CHP, AK PARTI and MHP) As a matter of fact, the Republican People's Party -- we have friends who were in Parliament at that time -- in 2006, a decision was made by our Parliament to draft a document of the Republic's People's Party's insistence and leadership in the Turkish Assembly, and it was shared with the world parliaments and the world's public. There have always been attempts to disrupt, put our thousand-year-old sisterhood law in Anatolia. As a result of the heavy pressure of World War I and the dirty calculations and attempts on our land, of course the results of the sad events have occurred in Anatolia, but here's what happened: only one of these ethnicities has been eliminated. The acceptance and acceptance of their claims are not possible by our party. The Republican People's Party also considers the preservation of the continuation of a thousand years of brotherhood at a different point than ethnic conflicts that exist in different parts of the world, although the Anatolian People's Party has a wide range of ethnic groups, and so on and so on, we underline the fact that it's something different -- something different from that parliament in any parliament in the world.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0559par0035	Complete, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0558par0036	...the claim that he committed genocide in that nation's parliament is unacceptable, not true, not appropriate. [[A round of applause from CHP, AK PARTY and MHP]] The final sentence, I repeat, is that we strongly deny genocide claims.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0559par0040	Thank you. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0560par0043	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Paylan here just used a very provocative language when he was speaking from the bench. (AK PARTY's "What number?") In the introduction, he began to propose this vile constitutional amendment, if you look at the lower and lower Turkish Language Foundation. And then -- I'm giving it to you as an example of provocative language -- he brought up this genocide claim. I reject this claim in a clear, clear way; it is wrong in history; it is wrong in truth; it is unfair to Armenians and Turks. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The Ottoman Empire was a multinational empire -- like all empires -- represented a will that was trying to hold all the elements together. What's wrong is dishonor, betrayal, shooting an empire in the back, the Stony and the Hound Komitarism; that's what's wrong. We have no problem with our Armenian citizens and the Armenians out there, but we have this dirty language that is trying to develop a separate nationalism based on the genocide claim, and the international parliaments are trying to create the infrastructure for it. The charge of genocide expressed here is not about history, mankind, Armenianism, past events. This is about international relations. We clearly, firmly deny it. As a result of this talk, we would like to ask that the Court of Interior be processed according to Article 161, and that this unjust and unjust claim be removed from the minutes. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0561par0051	Thank you. Mr. Commander...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0562par0054	Mr. President, dear friends, our history is filled with many painful events. I'm talking about the history of this land's bloody throats, the ancient history. The way to deal with it is to confront it literally, to do it on scientific grounds, to do it on social grounds, to look for the truth, the truth, whatever it is, to make it come out. It's not just limited to us, it's the most humane and decisive way that the people of the world can find for these wounds to be healed mutually. Now, in our country -- we've just been told by the speakers -- a nation is reacting to genocide. What we're talking about here is not a nation, but peoples don't commit genocide. There is a partnership in the deepest core of the people, but the conjunctivators of the era, the masters of the times, the imperialists of the time, in the conditions of that day -- whatever it is -- they encourage the slaughter of such peoples, they set the ground for it. Some people fall into this trap, some people fall into it, some people fall into it, some people take advantage of it. The way all this is going, with this date, it's really...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0563par0058	Complete.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0562par0059	...to seek the truth, to provide the proper working environment for those who seek it, and most importantly, the freedom to express it. There's been a lot of talk about the seat of parliament, and a former Speaker of Parliament has just said that, and the speakers can also make shocking statements here. The way to do that is not to keep him from talking. If we are to be afraid, if we all wish that these sufferings would never happen again, it would be not to speak, speak, or be pressured to do so, but to prepare an environment that is free to express their statements, even if you find them unacceptable. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, members, just a second...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0564par0063	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0565par0064	Tell me whether you resent it or not.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0564par0065	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0566par0066	Listen to me for a second.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0564par0067	Let him finish his speech, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0567par0068	Mr. Commander, tell me whether you condemn or not.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0566par0069	I hear you, Mr. Member. Let me finish my speech.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0567par0070	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0568par0071	Yeah, don't lecture us and tell us about it. For God's sake!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0566par0072	Let me finish my speech. Members, if we can't talk about this, let's just get out of here.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0569par0075	Under this roof, there's no charge of genocide. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0566par0076	Ladies and gentlemen, I now have the witness' speech, and I have the transcripts, but before that, on this stand...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0569par0077	You weren't there, we listened, very clearly.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0566par0078	Yeah, I read the transcripts, too.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0569par0079	We don't make him say that.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0570par0080	Don't interfere, members of lawmakers, please...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0569par0081	Do you blame or do you not blame?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0570par0082	Don't interfere.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0571par0083	Excuse me, fellas.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0569par0084	President, you promised, to condemn him, to tell me whether or not he does.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0571par0085	Mr. Erdogan, for 1915 in 2014...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0572par0087	Pack it up, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0571par0088	...he described it as an event that produced human consequences and expressed his condolences to the Armenians' surviving grandchildren. It's the word of the President. Now, friends...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0573par0091	Tell me the rest of it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0574par0092	Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0571par0093	Of course, we'll say the rest, and we'll discuss the sequel, and we'll listen to personal views on the opposition proposals, the detections, the determinations.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0575par0094	The President will give it to him. Look, right now, in these two minutes, do you condemn or not? That's what you're gonna talk about.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0571par0096	That's the way it is, guys. If he can't speak, if he can't be spoken, if he's turned into a taboo, then today, as a republic, we have neither this House nor this country...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0576par0097	Have the historians look into it, not you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0571par0098	...a complete impulse Terakki manipulation with no responsibilities and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Allow me.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0577par0102	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0578par0103	Let's finish this one last time.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0577par0104	It means the same thing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0578par0105	Mr. Commander, will you complete?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0579par0106	All right, I'll wrap it up, guys.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0580par0107	Are you having a hard time?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0579par0108	Now, an sanction is being demanded, according to 161, I would like to present this sanction to your knowledge. ▪ To be condemned three times during the same merger, to receive five reprimands in one month, during the talks...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0580par0109	We know them, so get to the point.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0579par0110	Excuse me, friends, please. ..to insult the president, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Speaker of Parliament, the Council of Presidents, the Vice President, the Vice President, or to insult them or to threaten them...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0581par0112	It's an insult to the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0582par0113	Okay, let's finish.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0579par0114	All right, fellas. Turns out we're not gonna be able to talk about it. So there's a...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0582par0116	Let him speak...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0583par0117	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0579par0118	You won't let me.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0582par0119	Thank you, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0583par0120	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0582par0121	Mr. Elitaş, the speeches are complete. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0583par0122	Mr. President, excuse me. Look, Mr. Commander is making statements that confirm the speech. No one in this country can accuse the citizens of this country, the people living in this country of murder, genocide.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0584par0124	Who called it that? Who called it that?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0583par0125	There is no genocide in other countries. When punishing those who say "Armenian" there has been an MP here. He cannot say "No," he cannot insult this nation. So I'd like you to apply the 161st article of the Civil Code and remove it from the report.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0585par0127	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0586par0129	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0585par0130	Mr. Commander...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0586par0131	I'll give you a little answer, Your Honor.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0585par0133	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Commander...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0586par0135	I'm going to say a sentence.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0585par0136	Okay, say a sentence, please turn it off.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0586par0137	People aren't being accused here, guys.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0587par0138	That's your comment.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0586par0139	Let's be clear about this, and we won't accept it either; one. Secondly, Mr. Elitaş has actually expressed it as a very vezistic statement, saying that there is no sanction in Europe. Such is the mentality of the one who says, "There is no sanction." The same is the mentality of the one who says, "There is no sanction." [[AK PARTY and MHP rows of noise]] Wait a minute...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0588par0142	Oh, man!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0589par0143	Mr. Commander...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0590par0144	I can't do this!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0589par0145	Pack it up, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0591par0146	Friends, we need to be different from the people or countries we condemn, and I wanted to emphasize that.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0589par0148	Thank you. Now, Congressmans, I beg you. Guys, please...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0592par0150	He's telling a story.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0589par0153	Members of parliament, the statement of İstanbul MP Garo Paylan as a member of the Republic of Turkey is a verb that requires temporary removal from Parliament, which is insulting to the Republic of Turkey and to the historical character of our nation. Therefore, I propose that Mr. Paylan be given a temporary sentence of removing 3 mergers from the Parliament under Article 163 of the Civil Code. Mr. Paylan, will he plead? If asked, he or another friend can defend himself. I'll give you time for defense. If there isn't, if there's no defense...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0593par0155	It's not defense, it's an apology.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0594par0156	It's not a defense, it's a direct pardon. If he asks for forgiveness, it's the only thing that can happen, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0589par0157	Yes, or else...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0595par0158	If he doesn't apologize, don't let him come back to this House.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0596par0159	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0589par0160	Are you going to do it, Mr. Commander? Okay, here's two minutes for the defense.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0597par0162	Mr. President, look, under Article 163 of the Civil Code, you will carry out the sentence, the General Assembly will decide. If he apologizes, he can enter the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0589par0163	I'll apply it. I offered him, if there's a defense, I'll take the defense, and then I'll take it. Mr. Elitaş, please, go ahead.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0597par0165	Mr. President, if he asks for forgiveness, there's no defense here, Mr. President- he'll get the right to enter.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0589par0166	Come in, Mr. Commander, I've opened it, two minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0598par0167	Mr. President, this is not the first time this concept has been used here. There have been many discussions on various questions, research proposals, and many discussions on the stand. Again, Mr. Prime Minister has made very clear assessments of the Dersim massacre. So I'm not going to make a defense here on behalf of my friend. But, Mr. Elitaş says...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0589par0169	Then, Mr. Commander, please, on behalf of your friend, if you're not going to plead, I promised him, I'll defend him. Pack it up.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0598par0170	We'd like to make a plea, but the circumstances...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0599par0171	Mr. President, this is about to get out of hand, please...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit08spe0589par0172	Mr. Garo Paylan, MP of İstanbul, under Article 163 of the Interior Charter, I submit to your votes that you will be temporarily sentenced to release three mergers from parliament: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. Members of the Supreme Assembly of Turkey cannot be held responsible for the votes and remarks of Parliament's studies, for their comments in parliament, for the decision of the Presidential Court in that session, unless another decision has been made by the Parliament, they cannot be held responsible for repeating and revealing them outside the House. According to this verdict, I submit to your votes that Mr. Paylan will not repeat these genocide statements outside the House and remove these words from the transcript: those who agree... Those who don't agree... Sustained. [[x]] I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0589par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 9th Session of the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 447. The commission and the government are in place. The last speaker on behalf of groups on Article 11 is Çanırı MP Muhammad Emin Akbaşoğlu on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0600par0011	Mr. President, before I begin my remarks, I'd like to start by thanking both our MPs and our MPs, the EC PARTI, the presidents of the CHP and MPHP group, who are both interpreters of the sense of our noble and noble nation about the genocide that just occurred, and to say that they did not commit genocide at any time in history. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear and dear brothers, which nation, which nation, regardless of the 3 million refugees, race, religion, language, is the nation that embraces it? Therefore, this is slander and provocation.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0601par0014	That's right.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0600par0015	Dear friends, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group regarding the 11th amendment proposal. On this occasion, I salute you all. As it is known, the Constitutional Compromise Commission, which was established in 2011 when four parties in parliament gave equal members, worked for more than two years and reached an agreement on 60 articles. When we said, "Come, let's make a constitutional amendment on these articles." Unfortunately, there were no results. Later, Turkey was exposed to an international coup attempt on July 15th. We all pushed this scam out of the way. In the process of the turning point of history, it was eventually presented to our Parliament for the Constitutional Proposal by the AK PARTY and the MHP. Thus began the process in which the word, authority, and decision were in our beloved nation. The longest talks in the Constitutional Commission took place in a democratic environment. In ten days of work, hundreds of lawmakers took the word, expressed their views, and a full report of about 1,500 pages was held. Our 21-point proposal has been accepted as 18 articles with the amendment motions. Dear lawmakers, the 11th article of our proposal and the 16th article of the Constitution shall be the re-election of the elections together. According to this, it is up to the rule to hold the elections together if the Parliament or the President decides to renew the elections. Thus, legislation and execution are determined directly by our nation by the same election on the same day. The possibility that the government, which exists in the parliamentary system and lives on June 7th, will not be able to dry or establish a vote of confidence. Furthermore, the fact that parliament and the President will be elected together at the same time is crucial to the balance-testing mechanism. This arrangement, in accordance with the principle of separation of forces, allows the legislative and executive forces to oversee each other, also allows the public to appeal to its arbitration and will if there is a crisis among these men. This is an original arrangement of the proposed presidential system and balancing forces. The proposed system is not the regime change system, but the government system. The Democratic Republic is untouchable to all of us. Therefore, no one should make accusations and accusations that are disconnected from proposal and reality to create a perception of their own assumptions and fiction. Mr. President, I have stated in the Commission that the Constitutions of 1921 and 1924, under the leadership of our Veteran Parliament, were the result of our first invasion. The offer we're talking about is the result of our future struggle to repel the July 15 coup attempt and the invasion attempt. Our Veteran Assembly has discussed this proposal. Dear friends, on July 15th, strong and stable Turkey was an international operation to build a fair and merciful world under Turkey's leadership, saying that the world should not be bigger than the great Turkey again. Your plans to wipe out and destroy history, along with the justice and mercy civilization of which you have been bannering for a thousand years, are the dream of the new Sykes-Picot. Today is the dream of the new Sykes-Picot. A hundred years ago, we face a great deal of destruction and destruction in the land of our homeland. They want to complete the unfinished operation and destroy Turkey by declaring the end of history. For years, divide, tear, and govern; it is the debt and common responsibility of all our necks, as representatives of the nation, who, with their right hand, played DAEŞ and ▪, organizations such as the PKK and the PYD with their left hands -- that the upper mind is in the nail -- to nullify all the plots of the nation. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] With this offer, we do it to end the polluting sessions between state and nation, to fill the gaps between state and nation, to fill the bureaucratic oligarchy, to sometimes do the job, sometimes on February 28th, with the 367 crisis, and to end the summoning sessions that can come into any form from the outside, with souffles, to declare the merger of the state and the nation. That's what's gonna stop the national will from happening to all the internal and external custody centers. Get out of here! What we're doing with this offer is bringing our nation's constitutional amendment demand back to our nation. What are we doing? The 61 Constitution, which brought the parliamentary system, was built on poor execution, bilateral Parliament and Senate. As a result of the experience, the 82 Constitution envisioned a strong but bilateral execution, both the Prime Minister and the President were equipped with strong powers. The experience between the deceased Ozal and Demirel, Demirel and Çiller and others has shown that the fork does not sink to the ground, so to speak, there is no good in the bilateral. The executive fiction of the 82 Constitution has been found to be capable of creating systemic crises regardless of individuals, resulting in political and economic crises, the future of Turkey's future stolen. For the past 50 years, as a government system, the presidential system has been proposed by academics and politicians instead of the parliamentary system. From the late Erbakan Hodja to Ozal, our experienced political and statesmen have always stressed that Turkey is the presidential system. That's what's in front of the Veteran Assembly, dear friends, so we mustn't miss it. By our proposal, bilateralism is lifted, the Prime Minister's powers are met by the President. This is the only and only thing that has been done; otherwise the powers of the law are again in law, the powers of the judiciary continue in judgment, and the mechanisms of law enforcement continue. The result of the vote of confidence is both the question of confidence and the vote of confidence that people are giving directly into the chest. The executive force is combined, preventing conflict and crisis; a fast, stable, effective and powerful government system is being established. And so our nation, the legislature, and the executive body, determines the president directly. In fact, our people are familiar with this system. Because he chooses both the mayor and members of parliament in the municipalities at the same time. We're doing the same thing in general. The national will, with double legitimacy, will act directly as the necessity of democracy. The people themselves will decide both the Assembly and the Fivepepe. Dear friends, is the House of People someone else's Fivepes? The Clave and the Fivetepe are friends of everyone. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Members of parliament, with the proposal, martial law is lifted from the current Constitutional Emergency and martial law regulation. It's the basis of civil administration for every idiot and sheraite. The civil and military separation of the court is now in effect. The Constitutional Court is being kept exactly as it is, except for the members of the military. Four members of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors are Presidents as they are now and seven members... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait,
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0602par0032	Please complete in one minute.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0603par0033	They're going to connect the AKP MPs to Hero Bulut. Be smart.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0600par0034	Seven members are elected by the Council. Amongst who? The Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, is elected among first-class judges, jurists. The result, my friends, is that the government system that we propose with the proposal is a unique model of the presidency, which takes the presidential system on its main axis, demonstrates our country's historical experience, national and domestic standing in a universal way, in its context and in its systematic way, and is a unique and specific model of Turkey that needs to be evaluated correctly and accurately. Congressmans, Turkey is the conscience and hope of humanity. Let us not extinguish this hope for our own people and for all mankind, but multiply it, and bring together a strong and stable Turkey. In this conscientious responsibility, he says, let's not miss history and truth, and I pay my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0604par0039	Thank you. The first word for the individuals now belongs to Istanbul MP Serap Yasar. Here you go, Mr. Yasar, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0605par0043	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I refuse to speak with the mouths of foreign parliamentarians in our own national Parliament before I begin my words, and I consider it disrespectful to this Parliament and our nation. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have taken my word on the 11th amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. We are gathered here today to discuss the clauses of a very important law proposal for the future of our country. It is not possible to interpret the new world, the new Turkey, the new arrangements, with opinions that underestimate the citizen, despise the political institution, scorn the Parliament. To put aside prejudices, narrow viewpoints, you have to read the age and needs correctly. This Parliament and we parliamentarians are capable of making all kinds of legal arrangements, including the Constitution. Our nation has given us, all of us, this authority. It is a great injustice to the national will and to the Parliament in the first place to try to prevent us all from experiencing honor and pride. I don't think anyone who lives in this country, who does politics, is going to defend the existing 82 Constitution. The conditions of preparation have been discussed and criticised on all levels. The election promises of all parties included a new constitution. Despite these criticisms and changes to certain substances over the years, it is a constitutional condition far from meeting our needs, which does not meet the needs of the age. Under the circumstances, we have prepared this package in the need of our nation's intense expectation of a new constitution from us. During the long hours in the commission, we discussed each party as lawmakers. It's a good thing we brought him to the General Assembly today. With the current amendment offer, the legislature is being used by representatives of the nation in parliament's bid. The executive authority is handed over to the elected President by the public vote, and the President uses it through his deputies and ministers from outside Parliament. In addition, a government system is being brought to the exact principle of separation of forces. Legislature, executive and the way the judicial bodies work separately but manage each other is the essence of the system. Parliament and the President's elections are being held by going to the simultaneous chest. With this constitutional amendment proposal, we are implementing the understanding of the state, of the nation, of the state. The proposal for the President's direct election in the 2007 referendum was approved by 68.95 per cent. In the 2014 elections, for the first time in the political history of the Republic of Turkey, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan was elected directly by the public vote, and with this constitutional amendment, our government system has approached the presidential system. The law regulates the re-election of the 11th article of our proposal, Parliament and the presidency. This arrangement allows Parliament to decide to renew the elections with three-quarters of the total number of members. In this case, the parliamentary general election and the presidential election are being held together. When the president decides to renew the elections, the parliamentary election and the presidential election are held again. At the moment, parliament is unable to decide whether to renew its presidential election. The current system is likely to have a dispute between Parliament and the Prime Minister elected by the public vote and the President elected by the people's vote. And indeed, in our history there are examples of that. This material creates the mechanism for resolving conflicts. It is intended that by going to the nation in conflict, our nation, which constitutes the final decision to live and run. The proposal for a change also brings important provisions in the field of justice. Since the judiciary is involved in the principle of separation of forces, the reason why it thinks it is a political body is that the principle of neutrality is unconstitutional and that even in a country like Turkey's recent history, neutrality will be expected to take place in independence, which has a political significance, as well as political turmoil. This historical error has been adopted by the Parliament as a constitutional principle in order to uphold its own law and the nation's law. It is a crucial historical step in which the concept of neutrality of the judiciary is included in this package. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0606par0052	Complete, please, Mr. Yasar.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0605par0053	Our recent and distant history is filled with examples of biased judgment. During February 28th, I personally experienced the closest and most burning examples as both a lawyer and a member of an NGO. Even though there was no legal obstacle to attending classes as a headscarf for college girls, I observed how independent courts made biased decisions. That day, I described it as a history of shame. As a lawyer and as a woman, the decisions that we are ashamed to remember today were made by independent courts to write as a black stain on the history of the judiciary. In our recent past, the closing case against our party, the decisions made in the presidential election process, we have finally seen how independent judges from the PKK can make biased decisions. I also find it important to reflect the spirit of the change package, including the constitutional recognition of the concept of impropriety. For a strong and stable Turkey, I wish you all the best for our country, for our country, for our nation, for our package of constitutional change, which brings a strong law, an independent and impartial judiciary.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0607par0057	Thank you, Mr. Yasar. On behalf of the individuals, the second and final speaker is Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Parsak. Mr. Parsak, please.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0608par0061	St. Turkish nation, respected lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on behalf of individuals on the framework of the constitutional amendment proposal, Article 11 of the amendment. On this occasion, I salute the Veteran Assembly and all of you respected MPs once again. Before I share my thoughts about the substance I've been promised, I am once again cursed on behalf of myself and my group by the claim that this nation has committed genocide under the roof of this Veteran Assembly under the slander of the so-called Armenian genocide, which we have never wanted to live or tolerate again. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Honourable MPs, the framework is envisioned for amendments to Article 11 of the Constitution, Article 116 of the Constitution. Indeed, this stands before us as one of the most controversial issues since the presentation of the proposed constitutional amendment. For once, I would like to express that we politicians and political parties have an obligation to speak the truth, to tell the truth, to speak the truth to our nation, who has the sovereignty and who will say the final word. The debates under this clause, unfortunately, are usually carried out through the claim that the President has been given the authority to disband the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Members of parliament, the Constitution still has the authority to renew its elections within the framework of dissolution of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. When spoken like this, however, he is an authority that can be used under certain circumstances. We face a defense in the form of a defense. In the 34 years since the 1982 Constitution came into effect, this power was used only once, after the June 7th elections, after the 25th term parliamentary elections. Yes, four separate conditions are expressed here in article 116, but after the 25th term parliamentary elections, as we all remember, the long-term talks are not necessarily in accordance with the conditions set there, so we see that this possibility, before that time is completed, is used in this framework. So it's not as much used in the Constitution as it is in accordance with the terms laid out under this clause, but as far as we're concerned, this authority is seen in the existing Constitution as well as in both forces, even though the Grand National Assembly of Turkey does not have the authority to terminate the President's mandate. So both the President and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will be able to use that authority, knowing that it eventually ended its mission. This place is extremely important. Thus, this is not a mandate for the President or the Turkish Grand National Assembly to use it as a pleasure; a crisis between the two forces, a obstruction, which has opened the way for re-enactment of the nation's arbitration, and in that sense, the system is essentially a presidential system. This is one of the most important things that has ever been removed from the allegations. So at a time like this, both the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the President will not only terminate the position of the opposition, but they will also terminate their mission, and they will be re-elected in front of the nation, and at this point, whichever force our nation sees justified in the matter, whichever one of them is correct in the matter, and which one of them is correct in the cause.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0609par0069	Finish it, wrap it up in a minute.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0608par0070	...he'll be able to make up his mind again in that direction. Here may be -- we've been expressing since the commission phase -- it's possible not only to use this power for 3/5, but often to remind you that, as it's arranged in the context of the President, it's not the president's second term, but if the Turkish Grand National Assembly uses this power, it's possible to enter the election for a third time. Thus, a majority, such as 3/5, are able to differentiate the nature of the work in this sense. The bottom line is, why are we given such authority to the president in this frame, not an incompatible approach to the truth in the form of... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We have to know that the President's authority in this framework is also known to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and that in this case, whatever our nation says will happen. In this framework, as in all other substances, I rephrase the discretion of our great nation, and salute you with respect.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0609par0074	Thank you, Mr. Parsak. Now, members of lawmakers, the talks have been completed, and we will proceed with the question-answer process. Now we're going to do a question process in five minutes. I'll make a promise to the lawmakers in order. Mr. Arslan, come in.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0610par0078	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to share with you some of the issues we've encountered in our Parliament today that I'm very uncomfortable with. Some lawmakers make statements on social media and parliament that don't suit the MP, that insult the moral character of parliament, that show exchanges. I'd like to point out that I've suffered from such actions and rhetoric in our Veteran Assembly. Yesterday, I condemn and strongly condemn two women from the AKP Group to carry their currency in parliament.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0611par0080	It's not a lady, it's a woman, it's a woman!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0610par0081	Again, the Shamil Tayyar MP has been terminated on social media. The Mutts, the drunkards are fired. The House of Nations has returned to its shift. I strongly condemn this MP who wrote his statement.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0612par0082	Give it back to him! Let him be the victim!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0610par0083	The three MPs have insulted the spiritual character of our House with their actions and statements. Therefore, I would like three MPs to apologize to the Veteran Assembly...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0613par0085	Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0614par0086	AKP governments have caused great damage and damage to our democracy, our state, by not recognizing our constitutional law. On July 15th, those who led the Fethullah Community as the owner of the coup knowledge of its parallel, continue to lie to our nation as they make the constitution of coup because of the fact that they cannot legally account for their misdeeds in parliament. It's moral, it's virtue to give self-criticizing accounts that you don't legally give. Morally, people with a conscience have to give our nation self-criticism as they correct his wrong and his word. May God forgive you. It is the grace of God. It does not justify unlawful conduct in this world. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0613par0088	Mr. Star...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0615par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. Constitutional amendments are formed on the basis of social and political reconciliation. Unfortunately, this constitution we've been discussing so far is a constitutional package brought together by the two parties. When Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk gives all power to the nation, I'm afraid 90 to three years later, we take the power of the nation and give it to one man. Dear lawmakers, if this constitution really passes through the House, believe me, you will be on the black page of history and your children and grandchildren will condemn you. We'll all go to the other side one day, but believe me, they'll bury you in the grave of the orphans, I assure you, dear friends. (AK PARTY RINGS) You know what you're saying right now? They're foreign games.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0616par0093	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0617par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. The President is the head of the state in our country, ruled by the republican regime. In our country, political parties are the essentials of democracy. Political parties work to succeed in the elections, organised at the province, the district and the country level. A party leader's representative at the province level is the mayor. The neutral president's representative in the provinces is governors because he is the head of state. Governors must be at equal distance from every party in their province. However, as the president is the party's leader, will he represent him as the mayor or the governor in the provinces? I wonder if this will be a protest against the state or a protest against a party leader.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0616par0097	Mr. All...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0618par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Jean Jacques Rousseau says there is no constitution if the law, the law, the judgment, the judgment are intertwined, and the freedoms are not guaranteed. Whoever has the power has it. From here, I speak to all the AKP's friends: You don't just change the regime with this arrangement, you also transfer the right of sovereignty over the people you have power of power. Do you realize that? What right do you have to hand over 80 million to one person? Do you have that kind of authority? The difference between 50 plus 1 to 50 minus 1 is just 2 votes. By two votes, you're creating a power that will rule 80 million on its own. If you think the people will submit to that power, you're wrong, because these people have gained their sovereignty by defying imperialism. He will never surrender to any power, nor will he ever surrender to his sovereignty. Don't touch the people's sovereignty; come and withdraw this bill.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0616par0100	Now to answer the questions, I'll leave the word to Mr. Bekir Bozdağ. Mr. Bozdağ, you have five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0619par0103	Mr. President, it is in accordance with the Constitution's procedure to make a constitution, to change the constitution, that it belongs to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's no hesitation about it. Of course, when the new constitution is being made, and when the constitutional amendments are being made, it is everyone's wish that it be built on a broad basis of reconciliation. But there's not always, unfortunately, a great deal of compromise. We are currently making a very important constitutional reform in Turkey. On this constitutional reform, there is indeed a historic, democratic compromise between the two major political parties; this is very important. Both political parties disagreed with the agreement. In this case, the Constitution has created a way for the people to bring the matter to the public, as a result of the people's arbitration, unless the public has reached a dimension that will ensure that the Constitution will change its quality. There is no way to reach a compromise by finding 367 ▪ in Parliament at this time. Then where are we looking for a compromise? We'll look for it in public. So, if the people go to the arbitration, they'll all talk about it, and the people will make a compromise in the polls. If he compromises the adoption of the presidential system, the system will be legalised, and if he compromises on rejection, it will be rejected. Therefore, it is a work of compromise and a work in accordance with the Constitution. To call this study a coup is to call it a crime to do the legitimate and constitutional duty of a constitutional institution, the Turkish National Assembly, which reflects the will of the nation, which is a tremendous mistake. I find it particularly helpful to underline that. This amendment is not a change that takes sovereignty from the nation and takes sovereignty from one person. In the current practice, our people only choose to live in the chest. It comes from within the legislature according to the will of the representatives of the nation. Therefore, the public does not currently have the authority to choose direct conduct. What's this arrangement doing? Not only does he recognise national sovereignty as a choice of life, but he also gives the people the authority to choose and change it directly with him. Will it weaken or destroy national sovereignty or strengthen direct selection and change power to the people? In this regard, it is an arrangement that extends the scope of national sovereignty and allows the public to determine directly how to conduct it. This arrangement is not a regime change, it's basically a government system change. The state of the Republic of Turkey is ruled by the republic. The attributes of the Republic are mentioned in Article 2 of the Article 2 of the Republic. If we're going to talk about a regime change, then a change in the qualities of the form of governance that regulates the qualities of the republic must be made. Then we'll say it's a regime change. But, is there any change in the qualities of the republic here? No, no direct, no indirect. It strengthens the republic's democratic state quality and strengthens the quality of the law state. It is not right to confuse the government's system with the concepts of ▪regism. Sometimes we call it the parlamenter regime, sometimes it's called the presidential regime, half of it is called the presidential regime. In fact, this expression is a gelatimethur, a balatim, which is a statement to the government systems that does not apply to the truth. There is a huge difference in literature between the government system and the regime in a universal sense. It doesn't cover the truth, it doesn't change the fact that you're over the difference and you're taking it up and calling the government's system "regism." So I'd like to stress once again that this is not a regime change, this is a government system change. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0620par0108	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Members of parliament, there are seven motions on the 11th article, five of which are the same property. The first five proposals I'm going to read are the same and I'm going to make them read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/1504) We propose and propose that the statement shall be replaced in the case of Article 11 of the original Law Proposal (2/1504) and Article 2709, which is part of the second joke in the amendment of Article 116/09.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0621par0114	We're rolling.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0620par0115	The motions of the same nature have been drawn. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that Article 11 of Law Proposal 447, which will be discussed in the General Assembly, be removed from the proposal text. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the 11th amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, which is 447 rows, be removed from the text on the grounds that the 11th Article of the Law Proposal is contrary to the Constitution. Engin Altay Levent Sky Free Special Tekin Bingöl Ahmet Haluk Koç Tanju Özcan Does the Commission agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0622par0128	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0620par0129	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0623par0130	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0620par0131	It's Bolu MP Tanju Özcan who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0624par0135	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm going to start by trying to explain to you tonight the difference between dictatorship and democracy. It's a heavy matter for you, I'm aware of that. Dear lawmakers, the fundamental difference between the two is the right to sovereignty. The sovereignty of dictatorial regimes belongs to the dictator unconditionally and unconditionally. In democracies, sovereignty belongs to the nation, unconditionally -- as it is written here. And that's actually our basic fight in these negotiations with you. We can't tell you this: look, from the last 50 years of the Ottoman Empire, even if it were a peyderpey, its sovereignty was given to the nation. Now, you're trying to reverse this 150-year process and reclaim sovereignty from the people and give it back to the palace. That's what we don't agree with. If you do this, it's not a democracy. Whatever he looks like, it's not a democracy.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0625par0137	You wouldn't understand him.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0624par0138	That's what I'm trying to tell you, but you don't understand.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0626par0139	People picked it out, people.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0624par0140	Although our friends have made a great effort to tell you how many days I won't be so keen on you because I've lost hope with you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0627par0142	Come on!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0624par0143	Congressmans, there's been a dissolution warrant on this clause, but let's consider this matter of dissolution, how does that work? Now, there's a party president in the new system, probably the party's leader. He was elected by about 50 percent of the vote, chosen by 51 percent. E, national will is represented here, 100 percent of society, nation. Now, a party president elected with 51 per cent is going to dissolve Parliament, where there are lawmakers from different parties and 100 per cent of national will, without cause or reason. I mean, he'll get mad at a speech here and maybe try to annul the House the next day, and he'll say, "Come on, let's go to the election." Is there an acceptable side to this, members of lawmakers?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0628par0145	What about him?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0629par0146	Why did he agree on November 1st?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0624par0147	Congressmans, your problem is that when you say "national will," you only understand Recep Tayyip Erdogan, you think he represents national will only Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0630par0148	We understand people, people! We understand everyone!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0624par0149	You despise yourself, you do us no injustice.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0630par0150	We always get permission from people!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0624par0151	Look, everyone in this Parliament represents national will, we represent national will. I mean, Recep Tayyip Erdogan came out of the trunk. Where did we come from? Did we just come out of the tree top?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0631par0152	What percentage did you get? He got 52 percent, how much did you get?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0624par0153	So we came out of the trunk. Did they find us in the courtyard of the mosque in Sarajevo and bring us here?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0632par0154	You are disturbed by the mosque in that palace!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0624par0155	We came out of the ark, and we represent the national will, and we represent 100 percent of it. You're having trouble understanding that.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0633par0156	How do you represent 100 percent of it? There's a performance! You've lost 11 choices, you're talking. You've been playing for sixty years.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0624par0157	Congressmans, I swear, I'm tired of talking to you, you don't understand, and our friends are tired.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0634par0158	Your illness is the mosque in the palace, the mosque!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0624par0159	So, if you'll excuse me, I'm gonna stop talking to you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0635par0161	You can't tell!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0624par0162	We have a very valuable group here tonight, and I'd like to address their conscience if they'll allow it. Look, I've got the Nine Light Doctrine in my hand.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0636par0164	You haven't read it.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0637par0165	You read six arrows first, look what you've become.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0624par0166	The Nationalist Movement Party has taken it seriously, it has a serious ownership of nationalism, it promotes nationalism. I respect that, Mr. President, you and your group.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0638par0167	Look at you, look at you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0624par0168	On the other hand, let's look at our group, we've already written our idea of nationalism on the mountains of Fivepe. Okay, let's take a look at these. You've never had a problem with nationalism.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0639par0171	Don't be rude!
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0624par0172	You've never had any concerns about nationalism. You're the political movement that says, "We've taken nationalism under our control."
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0640par0173	It's ethnic nationalism, ethnicity.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0624par0174	Therefore, I have great respect for Mr. Gardenie. I am well aware of the love of the people, the love of the people, especially the love of the flag, of my fellow members of the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0641par0177	Look this way, this way.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0624par0178	In that sense, I'd like to make a call: look, our flag has a beautiful color, take our flag. There's a ballot that matches this color exactly. If you'd like to put that red ballot in that envelope and throw it in the box, you'd be saving our country from a real disaster. I beg you, yours is the credit. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0642par0181	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that Article 11 of Law Proposal 447, which will be discussed in the General Assembly, be removed from the proposal text. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0643par0189	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0642par0190	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0644par0191	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0642par0192	They don't have a motion, so I'm going to read the reason: We propose that this provision for the renovating of parliamentary and presidential elections be removed from the proposal text. The possibility of re-elections will be renewed within 45 days, as it was after 7 June, when the President is recognised as a constitutional imperative and cannot obtain a vote of insecurity, a vote of insecurity, and a vote of confidence. The proposal stipulates that the process has been completely altered and that the elections can be renewed by Parliament and the President's decision, not necessarily in the event of certain conditions. In this context, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey can renew the elections by voting for 360 people, without the president's alone and on a basis. Because there is no regulation on where the election will be renewed, but the basis of the proposal is that the president's ability to re-election by himself means that system blockages can be resolved by national will, and the motive has been made clear. With this bet, it is clear that if the arrangement is approved, it will bring with it political instability, which makes it possible for an election to take on each case as system blockage by the head of the administration. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Thus, negotiations on Article 11 have been completed. Mr. Altay, you have a request for a statement according to 60. Here you go. One moment, please...
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0645par0202	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it looks like we're about to take a vote. Sir, we demand the high sensitivity of the Diva in order for the vote to be held under Articles 147 and 148.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0642par0204	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0646par0205	We agree with the same student, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit09spe0642par0206	The Presidential Court will act with the same sensitivity as ever. Congressmans, we will now proceed to a secret vote on the matter. In fact, you now know how the secret vote is conducted. Right now, especially, let's take our dear friends in the ranks of the government and the Commission, and leave it to our fellow officials and members of the Parliamentary Court. Members of parliament, I once again propose how the secret vote will be conducted: from the Commission and the government, the clerks from the Clerks, from the Commission to Adana, from Denizli, from Diyarbakır, to İstanbul, from İstanbul; from İzmir to Mardin, and from Mersin, to Zonguldak, from the Commission, to Zonguldak; one of them will be marked from the admin book, including Denizli and Diyarbakır, and one of them from İstanbul; one of them will be given a special green, one of them a red stamp, and three special ballots from the government. The MPs will not be able to vote anywhere but the cabinets to the right and to the left of the presidential stand. The MPs will also vote in the department of the minister's province, where they will vote instead. As you know, the white acceptance, the red rejection, and the green abstention vote. Once the member will use the vote to mark his name in the name book and receive the sealed envelope printed on the ballot with three round stamps from the clerk, he will enter the closed voting place, use the vote, and place the ballot stamp in the ballot box in front of the presidential court. No stamps or envelopes will be given to the MP whose name is not read in the vote. Congressmans, please, let's sit in our seats, let's not let one pile up, let's just leave the front of this bench and the voting areas to our fellow officials, our members of the Presidential Court. Thank you for your sensitivity. Now we begin the secret vote in Adana Province. [[Votings are being started.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law... After the name is read, please. [[Votings continued.]] Let our clerks vote. [[Votings continued.]] Do we have any members who don't use the game? Now that everyone's used it, the voting process is complete. Have the officers remove the ballots and bring them to the office of our members of the Presidential Court to our right and to our left. We're also inviting our council members to proceed with the vote count and inventory process. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of parliament, as a result of the secret vote of Article 11 of the Law Proposal for the Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey: I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-13sit10spe0642par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 447. Commission? No. It's been postponed. The 443th draft of the Law, which is ranked in the 3rd place, begins talks with the Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin negotiations with Law Bill 439, which is ranked in the fourth place, and with the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will no longer be available, the decision was made on Saturday (January 14th 2017) to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of the decision, at 14 p.m., according to the decision made on Saturday (January 2017). I'm closing the assembly at 00, and I wish you good morning.
