tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise two congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Artvin MP Uğur Bayraktutan who wants to speak about Artvin's problems. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0002par0010	Thank you, dear President. Mr. President, I have a debt of gratitude to the General Assembly first. I lost my mother in the last month, followed by a serious medical condition. In that sense, all parliamentary groups in Parliament, all party groups, expressed their heartfelt condolences, their best wishes. I express my sincere gratitude to all Parliament, to all MPs, and to all of you, God bless you. Thank you very much, dear MPs. My dear friends, I've spoken here many times, I've tried and tried to explain Artvin's problems and problems. In the past few days, the Court has decided against the environmentalists in the ongoing process of ruling on the story of the serpent that turned into the story of Artvin. This decision made not only by Artvin, but by all the friends of Artvin, whose heart fell for Artvin. Turkey's largest environmental trial against environmentalists, which was launched by 750 people at the Rize Administration Court, unfortunately resulted in the result. There's no way we can accept this decision the State has made, my dear fellow lawmakers. The point is, a number of judicial processes will continue right behind him. I believe the environmentalists, the Green Artvin Association and environmental organisations, will apply to both the Supreme Court individually, then carry it to international platforms, but at the very moment, before this decision is made, the Kaziyye-i cognitive -- which is the absolute ruling -- the Office of the State's Office, 14. Despite the decisions that his apartment has already made, the fact that the current apartment has made such a decision is not accepted by the Artvins, it is a decision that must be rejected, my dear friends. Look, in this regard, the corruption in Cerattepe, the problems with the Cerattepe tender, all applications we've made so far have been inconclusive, both at the Parliament level and at the government level. On July 8th, there were necessary applications made by environmental organisations regarding Artvin Governorate for a meeting that should be held regarding this decision, but unfortunately, on July 8th, applications made a month earlier were ignored by the governor's office and were not taken seriously by the governor's office. My dear friends, there are very serious questions in the public about this tender process and then about the judicial process, regarding allegations of interference in the judiciary. I can't tell you about this in these five minutes, but we're going to bring to Parliament's agenda a parliamentary inquiry on Cerattepe's decision and the judicial process right now, and we're going to discuss it in detail. But at this point, we're going to ignore this application to the governorship, we're going to do a rally a month ago. On July 19th -- not tomorrow, the day after -- there will be serious public statements about the massacres of Turkey and the global public in Artvin. The challenge, my dear friends, is that this is a battle that has been going on for 25 years. In this fight, all positive decisions have been made from relevant courts, from relevant institutions. Despite the court rulings passed by Erzurum Administration Court of Rize, Erzurum Court of Justice, the Supreme Court of Justice, we are well aware of how an intervention was done in the Ki Rize Administration Court, which, unfortunately, has not been carried out and has not been carried out by judicial decisions. The intervention in the Rize Administration Court alone was not enough, and the prosecution was interfered with, my dear friends. Therefore, it can only be good will and purity, my dear friends, to wait for the Artvins to stop this struggle, based on the State's decision in Cerattepe, which the Artvins have accepted as a battle for honor and honor and dignity for 25 years. Therefore, no matter what the circumstances, no matter what legal consequences are being removed from us, even if the law enforcement forces in Artvin have been given almost every order of the company, even if the arrangements have been made, even if they have been handed over by the relevant governorship for a month, in the period of period, the future of Artvin, the nature of a victim, even in the great Parliament, which has been regularly interfered with for over a year, in any way, because there are legal consequences coming out of this place, the meeting, the demonstration, the rally, and the rally, and all other events like this, even though we have been banned from the state of Artvin, a more clearly, even though a businessman has surrendered to the ambitions of a businessman Artvin, even though the nature of the great Parliament, and the great Parliament, we are very excited to say, we are proud of the Republic of all things. Therefore, once again we cry out to the next generation to leave the green and beautiful Artvin, which cannot be crossed, and the people of Artvin shall not be defeated. With these feelings, I salute all of you with love, thank you, and say, "Be."
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0003par0018	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Flagtutan, first I wish you well, and I wish your mother God's mercy again.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0002par0022	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0003par0023	The second statement outside the agenda is from Balıkesir MP Kasım Bostan, who wants to talk about the July 15 coup attempt. Here you go, Mr. Bostan.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0004par0029	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs regarding the July 15th traitorous coup attempt. I salute the High Council. Over the centuries, the Turkish nation has fought for independence and freedom in this land, and has paid a price, and has been subjected to numerous attacks, betrayals, riots, and attacks that have meant that it exists because of its historical stance. Attempts to destroy our existence have always been frustrated by Turkish nation's insight, resistance, courage, courage, passion for freedom and independence. Last year, on July 15, 2016, we experienced one of the greatest betrayals of all. Completely domestic-looking, but the archenemy of our nation and Islamic civilization has moved the mechanism of the Muslim-looking but evil-focused mechanism that has been carefully prepared for years behind a veil of silence and patience. In the nation's army, terrorists who have sold their identities and personalities to the devil, hidden in the uniform of our valiant Turkish soldier, have pointed at the nation for the first time mercilessly, the planes, the tanks, the weapons, the weapons. With missiles, bombs, bullets, they have martyred and wounded thousands of our 249 citizens. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers have broken the great plans of the traitors who have been thrown out on the streets by challenging F16, helicopters, tanks, rifles, at the behest of Mr. President. We are proud, of course, to be a member of the great Turkish nation who fought fearlessly in Kazan, Chengelköy, Sarachhane, Bosporus Bridge, Parliament, and many other places, to the age of their youth and to the extent of the square to the traitors. We will never forget that we owe this day to our martyrs and veterans that night, and we will never forget them, and we will always remember them with gratitude. Mr. President, when the valued lawmakers were pursued by traitors after July 15th, those who sold their soul to the devil were seen to be hundreds of thousands in the army, in the security, in the judiciary, in the bureaucracy, and in other parts of society. For the last year, the state has fought with all its might, every ounce of this treacherous structure, to be identified, to be cleansed, and to be punished for the betrayal of our government and our nation on July 15th. However, it is not an easy task to identify and judge traitors who are well-hidden and constantly ambushed, whose number is expressed by hundreds of thousands. In addition to the number of traitors, with years of experience of conspiracy and contributions from their supporters, trials have begun despite their efforts to create all kinds of legal judgements, deception, deception, and public opinion. Judgement, law enforcement and intelligence, it's our duty to clarify the truth and punish traitors. In doing so, we have no doubt that maximum effort will be made to prevent the innocent from being harmed. But we will also witness the account of those who planned July 15th and those who applied it and those who supported them. Such actions, which are accompanied by all kinds of activities against Turkey and are not afraid and supported by the international force, will result in the quickest result in the backboned and conscientious stances of the judiciary and other institutions that help the judiciary. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers will continue to follow every policy against the West and its evil centers, which see a strong Turkey as a threat to its presence at all times. After the Battle of Salvation, we have to act before we forget that we are now fighting a war of existence. The way to deal with them is to become a nation that can come together without question when it comes to the country, despite any differences. With these thoughts and feelings, we remember with mercy our saints who sacrificed their lives for this country, and I wish all our veterans a life of good health. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0005par0037	Thank you, Mr. Bostan. We pray for God's mercy to all our martyrs, and that our veterans may be healthy as soon as possible. Congressmans, right now, I'm about to make a commitment to 15 members of parliament who are entering the system, one minute in order. Mr. Simsek, Mr. Akbasoglu, Mr. Engin, Mr. Minister, Mr. Köseoğlu, Mr. Taskın, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Yaşar, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Bektaşoğlu, Mr. Kılıç, Mr. Horseman, Mr. All and Mr. Arslan. We'll start with Mr. Lightning. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0006par0047	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, as of last week, the grape harvest has begun in Çukurova, but the price of grapes on grapes has not yet been announced. The factory in our area has yet to purchase. Because of the intense heat last week, the majority of grapes have been damaged, the sun has burned; it cannot be used as a table and factory. So we expect this year's suma factories, which are known as the wine factory among the public, will immediately open up and buy grapes and be given a good base price. As in wheat, we don't want the base price to be announced after the season is over. After the farmer ran out of wheat in Çukurova, the ground price was announced, and we want the price of the grape to be announced immediately and the factories to be opened. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0007par0050	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0008par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. On July 15th, the nation celebrates with mercy our sainted martyrs, who have led us to a great epic attempt to commit an international treason and invasion of victory, thanking our heroic veterans, for the sake of religion and state, country and national defense, and to the call of its leader, the Commander-in-Chief, to the whole world, to show my gratitude to our noble and courageous nation, each one of them with the wish of two acts of happiness.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0007par0055	Thank you. Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0009par0058	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we crowned our Justice March, which we began on June 15th and accompanied our people with great enthusiasm, with one of the largest rallies Istanbul has ever seen on July 9th. We have voiced our request for a state of law with the slogan of rights, law, justice for our country and for our future, side by side, side by side, side by side by side by side by side by side by millions. His political opinion and his view of the world came together with millions of different hearts to show the world the active consciousness of democracy in our country. The Walk of Justice thanks the millions who joined our community and the Justice Meeting, and I say once again, we will continue our fight for the rule of law, democratic, liberal, secular Republic of Turkey with greater determination and determination from our people.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0007par0059	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0010par0061	Mr. President, chlorprifos, a poison of the chemical group known as organic phosphate used to kill insects in the production of agricultural products, was banned in our country in April 2016 after being banned in EU countries in 2015. It was decided to be removed from the market by May 31st 2016, and to close the sale of chlorprifos-based agricultural poisons to produce fruits and vegetables. However, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism does not reveal data on food products that it detects traces of chlorprifos in its efforts to monitor remains across the country. Our country exported food products to the European Union, with a significant increase in the number of samples that have been detected since 2015. These data show that although the use of chlorprifos in agricultural production is prohibited, it continues to increase compared to the past years. How does the ministry explain this? Are we eating poison? Are we feeding him poison?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0007par0062	Mr. Köseoğlu...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0011par0064	Thank you, Mr. President. The other day was the anniversary of the July 15th treacherous coup attempt, which we called the Day of Democracy and the National Union and would forever cherish. July 15th was a day when we witnessed the greatest betrayal, the greatest hero of all. July 15th is the name of a nation's epic. And when it came to this land, without looking back and forth, the flag in his hand, and with faith in his heart, did not allow the treacherous people to plan on this geography, and the spirit of Çanakkale proved to the world that it would be in the DNA of this great nation forever. On this occasion, as one of the lawmakers who was under the rule of the Turkish Grand National Assembly that night, in order to uphold the authority vested by the nation, I humbly and gratefully remember all our martyrs that we gave that night.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0007par0066	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0012par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. The 15th anniversary of the traitorous coup and occupation attempt with the foreign supporters of the July 15th (July 15th) betrayal network, we have come to our senses with sadness and enthusiasm. We have sought mercy on our martyrs, and have given them the Korans, and the pilgrims. We wished our veterans health and peace with our gratitude. May the souls of all our martyrs be blessed. That night, our fight against the terrorist organization to ensure that this unique victory, which was won by our President and by our nation's upright standing, continues decisively under the leadership of our President. July 15th has shown us that in order to exist in this geography, we have to be strong as a state, as a nation, as a nation, as one and together, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0013par0071	Thank you. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0014par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, after July 15th Union and Democracy Day, the General Assembly convened, I would like to extend to you once again the unique value of all political parties, views and the right of our people to stand together in unity and unity, showing the will to take possession of the power of our Parliament, democracy. However, I strongly object to Mr. President-in-Chief's remarks about Mr. President-in-Chief in his speech at the Memorial of the National Union and Democracy Day, a political party that protects and represents our national unity and integrity. He has absorbed the importance of our national unity and unity, and has once again demonstrated the insincereness of his fundamental opposition leader and opposition, evocative speech to the community, the destruction of our unity and integrity, and the insincereness of the approach of democracy.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0015par0077	Mr. Yasar...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0016par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. A year ago, on the night of July 15, 2016, our people gave the best response to the low blow attempt against the national will. The Turkish nation was united that night and ended the coup attempt by ▪ traitors by shielding itself in front of tanks for the glorious flag, homeland, and freedom. The Turkish nation, who claimed its national will, changed address to the cradle of democracy that night. The cradle of democracy is now our homeland, this land. A year after the treacherous coup attempt, the same spirit and excitement was shown to the world what the walk would be like; from the back of our commander in chief, young, old, women, men, to the morning, it is not so; it is not so; it is so. Our way is the way of our nation.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0017par0082	Thank you. Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0018par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. The Paris Climate Agreement has been approved by the parliament of more than 150 countries, including Germany, thus far. Although the power signed this agreement last year, Turkey is not officially on the side of the agreement because it was not approved in parliament. AKP President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said that the agreement would not go through Parliament if after G20 were not met with financial sanctions. It is thought that such a critical agreement that concerns the entire world should be linked to financial grounds. The environmental problem is too vital to be reduced to financial expectations. I especially urge the government to be more sensitive to such agreements that determine the living conditions of future generations. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0019par0090	Thank you, Mr. Pineak. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0020par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, according to media reports, were taken out of the First League by means of a fix. Today, at 18 p.m., to announce the voice of Şanlıurfaspor....from the First League to the Turkish Football Federation and the Minister of Youth and Sports. All the Şanlıurfans will meet in Gunnery Square at 00. I speak to Mr. Minister of Youth and Sports and the Turkish Football Federation: We demand that this sacrifice of Şanluufraspor, which has been dropped through the fix, be removed from the teams that have been rigged. Let's not compromise the trick. If the sport is rewarded with deception, it's a bad morality that no religion will accept any trick of law. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0021par0097	Thank you. Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0022par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. On the night of July 15th, I thank those who resist traitors to protect our secular, democratic republic. I remember our heroic martyrs who gave their lives for the same purpose with love, respect, mercy, and gratitude. With my appreciation for our veterans, I wish you a healthy, long life. May Allah never give our country another night of nightmares like the 15th of July. For this, we will reveal the political relations of those who played roles in the leadership of July 15th; we will strengthen the fundamental principles of the secular, democratic Republic of Turkey, established by Ataturk (Ataturk); we will carry out a modern democracy strengthened by law, by human rights and freedom; we will never compromise democracy's assurances from our parliamentary system, regardless of the cost; we will not trade democracy with any regime. That's why we reject your final code of conduct in the palace room with your little partner. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0023par0103	Thank you. Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0024par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. July 15th, the 1st anniversary of the treacherous coup attempt has been re-understood as the country, the nation and our entire heart geography. We have seen our nation's determination and determination grow again. Our leader's determination, our Prime Minister's statements, through the leadership of the President of our Veteran Assembly, with forces and opposition groups and MPs who can come to Ankara, at the expense of our nation's lives, and through the sacrifice and heroism of our beloved nation, men and women, young men and all across our country, we have broken down the machine of betrayal that has been prepared for over 40 years through the struggle of soldiers, police and all our security forces. What happened gave the enemy fear, trust in friends. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Some of the so-called "democratic disciples" are behind the coups.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0025par0110	Thank you, Mr. Sword. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0026par0113	Speaking on the anniversary of the July 15 coup attempt, AKP President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said, "We buried 250 heroes on the night of July 15th, and saved the future of Turkey of 50 million in return." Evil unites our nation. In the coup attempt, our nation became one. However, ignoring 30 million people in 80 million Turkey and dividing the nation is a public attack on the unity and integrity of the nation. Who are the President's 50 million? Is it the sum of the people and their families who voted for the AKP and the MPP? If that's the case, wouldn't that be divisive? We will continue to live in peace and brotherhood, in spite of the people who seek to provoke hatred and hostility and divide it. We'll also ask the people who tried to divide us.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0027par0115	Mr. President, excuse me...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0028par0116	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0027par0117	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, on every occasion, represents the unity and brotherhood of 80 million. It's very clear on the record.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0029par0118	He said 50 million, Hajji.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0027par0119	80 million. There's a lot of different times...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0029par0120	My teacher said 50 million.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0027par0121	If you open it and look at it, you'll see.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0029par0122	My teacher said 50 million.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0027par0123	Sehven is 50 million, there's no point in looking for an anchoronoglu under it.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0029par0124	He gave me a discount.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0030par0125	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0031par0126	Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0030par0127	Mr. President, I'd like to believe it's a slip of the tongue, I hope it's a slip of the tongue. However, despite being in the press in so many ways, neither the President nor the Prime Minister nor the authorities have made a correction. Therefore, if it is a slip of the tongue, it is our right to ask for correction, and if it is not a slip of the tongue, we stand by all of our promises. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0031par0129	Thank you. Mr. All...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0032par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. Educated legally out of their jobs, Nuriye Gülmen and Semih Özakça are today on the 131st day of the hunger strike. Nuriya and Semih are already beyond their life-threatening dimension, and now they're on the brink of death. But Nuriya and Semih still believe that they will return to work with hope and that the arrest will end. Dear friends, not only do Nuriya and Namih want to die, but they just want their freedom and their jobs back, and they are very determined and waiting with hope. This hunger strike must be ended before they die, without injury. Friends, I speak to your conscience: If Nuria and Semih die, consciences die, and justice die, and humanity dies with them. I call upon the President, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice: "Come, let us keep Nuriya and Semih alive, and take the necessary steps for them immediately. Let them live so that humanity can live.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0033par0135	Thank you. Mr. All, I believe you're wearing your jacket, thank you. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0034par0139	I'm asking the Minister of Justice: 1) When will you remove these unjust practices because of the limitation of lawyer-substantiated talks in prisons, the presence of a guard during the interview, the voice and the appearance of a guard, a fair trial and a violation of the right to defend? 2) The hunger strike they carried out was over seventy-five days after the action they launched 196 days ago in connection with the return of the jobs of Nuriya Gülmen and Semih Özakça. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man When are you going to intervene in order for him to be treated and granted the right to live in the hospital, considering the seriousness of his health? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0035par0143	Thank you, too. Mr. Kavacıoğlu... I don't think so. Mr. Erdogan, Mr. Erdogan is not here either. Thank you, lawmakers. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who have requested a word. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0036par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, we've lost our Specialist Sergeant Hakan Demirci, who was badly injured in the fight against terrorists in Bingol Kiğı, and I pray for God's mercy, this is the last time. However, at the funeral of this martyr, the governor of the state has shown a demeaning attitude that offends the public conscience, which violates the state code and morality of the state. There are no government representatives on the General Assembly, but I hope they're listening to us from where they are. At the funeral of our Specialist Sergeant Hakan Demirci, who had been injured in Bingöl Kiğı, who had been treated in the GATA, at the Nevşehir Kozakaklı, the governor was taken out of his place where the president of the Republican People's Party should have been, in a far-reaching, far-away corner -- to throw the wreath of Mr. Süleyman Soylu, the Minister of Interior, was replaced by the wreath of the Republican People's Party's President. That's one thing about being a lackey, one thing about being a kiss-ass, two things about being a jerk, three things about being a jerk. THE government of the EC PARTY, we have witnessed a very painful example of what it has done to the state with its practices, at another martyr's funeral.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0035par0153	I'll give you an extension. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0036par0155	It's about the governor, and I'll leave this governor's position to the consciences and appreciation of the lawmakers, but there has to be a limit to the efforts of the state bureaucracy to apply to the executive body by powering from the speech of the president of the EC PARTI, from the separative, aberrant, polarizing, polarizing speech. I strongly condemn the governor's position with hatred. I expect the governor to act knowing that he is the governor of the state, but more importantly, I'm stressing that both I and the public are curious about what the AK PARTI group executives are thinking about this, Mr. President, and that we are in such expectation.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0037par0156	At a time when we need a brotherhood, we feel sorry for such a governor.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0035par0157	Thank you. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0038par0160	Mr. President, thank you. Lieutenant Arif Kalafat, who died in Bingol, I ask God's mercy on our martyr, our nation's head. I remember all our martyrs with mercy and gratitude. We have soldiers wounded in Hakkari, and I wish you a speedy recovery. On July 15th last year, there was a low coup attempt against the will of the nation, the Republic of Turkey, its country, its people, its people, an invasion movement. Our prime minister, Mr. President, heads of opposition parties and all our people have resisted this invasion, the dark night has reached a bright morning. It's been a year, those traitors are inside now. The people's will, democracy and the Republic of Turkey are all standing up. Now these bastards are on trial. There's a struggle against their organization, against their structure, against the state, which is a very right and proper struggle. Basically, it's everyone's moral duty to support this struggle as a direction and as a job, as this nation shows resistance to the joint occupation movement on July 15th. This struggle must be supported in the clearest, most obvious way. Beyond that, there may be some objections and criticism about the struggle, of course, but I strongly reject a language that puts these objections and criticisms ahead of the struggle, never mentions the struggle, as if it were all being done wrong. I see this as a very problematic approach to the present and the future of the nation.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0039par0165	Complete, please, Mr. Bostanci. I'll give you an extension.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0038par0167	On the other hand, these gang members are on trial right now. A few days ago, someone wore a T-shirt with written "Hero" in it, and today a relative of the accused wanted to enter the court in Sincan, wearing a T-shirt over a lie he didn't know what was written on it. Mr. Prime Minister had made it very clear that these people, written on the foreheads of the nation in Turkish, cannot completely escape their betrayal by writing "hero" in an international language on their breasts. But they want to send a message to the circles where they serve in this international language, saying, "We are your heroes." This is an account of what they used to do. I present this to the attention of our nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0039par0169	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0040par0172	Thank you, Mr. President. In the morning hours of today, an improvised explosive was detonated during the passage of a military vehicle in Esendere district of Hakkari Yüksekova district and 17 of our soldiers were injured. I pray to our soldiers, to our heroes, to the Lord God, to heal us quickly. In addition, 11 of our citizens were injured in Samsun, my constituency, as a result of the explosion in a factory at the Gulsan Industrial Site earlier today. I wish them and those wounded a speedy recovery. This Gülsan Industrial Site also has serious problems in Samsun, which should also be addressed, but it is not often that the industrialists complain about it. Now, Mr. President, it's been a year since this July 15th traitorous coup attempt, and the memorials have been all over our country. Once again, we condemn this treacherous coup attempt. We say that every time, we see it as an invasion of our country. We see this not as a coup attempt against a person, a person, a political opinion, but a coup attempt against the entire community against 80 million. Here, the Turkish nation showed what a great nation it was that night. Our nation's conquest, its insight, has survived this treacherous attempt. I hereby ask for the mercy of all our citizens who were martyred that night, and of all our soldiers who were martyrs in the struggle for the unity of this country, our armed forces, our security forces, all of them. I wish our veterans and our wounded a speedy recovery. Of course, we always call it unity. I'd like to stress once again that all political parties must also avoid unsolicited acts of unity. I'm going to do the evaluations on them on one occasion today. But speaking of which...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0041par0178	Please complete it, Mr. Master. I'll give you an additional minute.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0040par0180	Some of the problems that we encountered at these recent memorials were problems, problems at the county and county level. So the programs organised by the governorships and governorships were the places where it was performed, as if it were a political party's program. We need to avoid this, we always call it unity and unity, we need to avoid unifying acts of unity and unity. I think everyone should be responsible in that sense. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0041par0182	Thank you, Mr. Master. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0042par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, now we've all experienced the July 15 coup attempt. Everyone who was in Ankara, especially the politicians, experienced it even more closely and heavily. But when you look at the talks made on the anniversary of this, the talks made by AKP President Erdogan, I'd like to say just one or two things. We can't take the castles, we can't take the king without crushing him. For him, we'll cut off the heads of these traitors first. We buried 250 heroes on the night of July 15th, and in return we saved the future of Turkey's 50 million-dollar future. This nation has heart, you don't have heart, this struggle is not the fight of cowards. No crime will go unpunished in this country, I assure you. This nation would never hesitate to crush the head of the betrayer. I mean, I have a hard time calling him the President of the AKP because he is not a justice office, and even though he is a judge, it is impossible for the court to use words such as crushing the head, cutting off the head. It's bad for this country, it's very bad for a politician to do this. I mean, I know it's futile to invite him to be obedient and calm, but I'd like to invite all our citizens, especially politicians, to speak to each other in the language of peace and quiet.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0041par0188	Complete, please. I've given you an additional minute.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0042par0189	It's not the first time this country's been hit, Mr. President. It was a coup attempt, this country has seen coups, and as people who have opposed these coups with all our hearts and cursed them all for years, yes, we now want civil democracy to be established in Turkey, and it is never the language and these words that will plant it. So, if democracy is really wanted in this country, politicians must first approach each other with honest, democratic, and peaceful words. From here, I wish you all the mercy of our lost citizens, my condolences to your relatives, and I curse all the blows, but the real curse, as I said, will be the day this country becomes a democracy. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0043par0192	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On January 2, 1961, the Press Agency, established with Law No.195, has left 55 years of service behind in order to distribute official ads equally and fairly in our country. The institution continues its intermediary service in the institution's law, with 41 branches and 666 official ads and ads in the area. The aim of the institution is to ensure the financial support of newspapers, so that official ads can be distributed within certain principles and principles, thus maintaining the public awareness and enlightenment service. On the other hand, the Press Advertisement Agency has made it a principle of taking an active role in the press sector with ideas or social aid to employees and press associations, which supports the transformation of newspapers in the age of IT, depending on the conditions of the day. However, there have been serious public disturbances with the Press Agency recently. It is said that the institution has been motivated by government, that high circulation organs have dropped their circulation with various excuses, and newspapers, which are low in circulation and close to the government, have transferred money by inflating their circulation. It is imperative to examine the net circulation figures and find out how many public resources are being transferred to which groups of the Press Ads. Although President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's son-in-law, Berat Colorrak, also Minister of Energy and Natural Resources in the 63rd Government, was not included in the dog tags of the names of his brother-in-law, Serhat Colonelrak, who was elected to this position at the Press Declaration Agency for what status he was chosen to be under the administration of the Press Ads for millions of dollars each year. The Nielsen Research Corporation, which measures media monitoring, compared the volume of state aid provided to national newspapers in 2014. According to the study, state ads to the Star newspaper, known for its proximity to the EC PARTI government, are 120 times higher than given to the Speaker newspaper, one of the opposition newspapers with three times more daily circulation. Another opposing newspaper, Zaman, has three times the circulation of the daily Sabah, known for its proximity to the government, while the ad revenue of the daily Sabah was only 1-sixth of the income earned by the daily Sabah. It has been one of the interesting details that 89.6 per cent of the 2012 advertising share has gone to newspapers close to power, while the bank's largest share in the 2013 advertising budget has gone to 76.5 per cent and is also reflected in the media. The Freedom Studies Association's 3 October 2015 Press Report shows once again the distorted situation in the public advertising distribution in Turkish media, and the report shows that although it has 62,289 tyrages, the New Akit newspaper received 9.252 column inches of advertising, although with 361,742 circulations, it can receive 1.089.878 columns of ads. On the other hand, the daily Hurriyet received 22,651 column inches of advertising from two newspapers, circulation numbers, newspaper volumes and publishing styles close to each other, while the daily Sabah received 336,917 column inches of advertising. In other words, the daily Sabah has sold less than the competing daily Hurriyet, but has received one third more public-source advertising. We respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 94, 104 and 105, in order to address and address the problems caused by the public's ads and the public's ads, and to address the issues. [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[Scholarship]] [[Manisa]] [[40s.]] [[Denizli]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[40s.]] [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Edirne]] [[İstanbul]] 15) Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt [[Inconceived]] [[Eskişehir]] 17) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] 20) Mustafa Ali Balbay [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] 22) Ali Haydar Hakver [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 24) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Aydın]] [[Scholarship]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Samsun]] [[Edirne]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As of November 1, 2015, almost four months passed since the general election, with the election results, the government was established on its own. However, some bureaucratic authorities, of great importance in the country's administration, have not been filled, despite all the time that has passed. In many districts and districts, the Security Directorate authorities are governed by the power of attorney. One of these authorities is Ankara Security Directorate and has not been appointed to this office in Turkey's capital for more than four months. After the June 7, 2015 General Election, two major massacres took place in the capital city of Ankara, while the perpetrators were caught after the explosion, as Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said. In these terrorist attacks, 128 of our citizens have lost their lives and hundreds of our citizens have been injured. These massacres have not only caused physical injuries, they have caused a great deal of damage to society. Turkey has become a place where people are afraid to go out and everyone looks at each other suspiciously. Although the government has all the power of state, it has failed to prevent these attacks, its intelligence weakness has once again been revealed. In this process, it is important to ensure the safety of citizens and to leave the authorities in charge of the security departments empty, no doubt preventing these attacks. The administration of Ankara's Security Directorate service, the capital of the Republic of Turkey, has been incompatible with the state's seriousness and clearly creates security weakness. The TBM, which can be referred to as the centre of Turkey, is a serious problem for the security of the country for terrorist attacks near the Prime Minister's Office, the General Staff, the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Security Buildings. Other than the Police Department, the National Intelligence Agency appears to have a very serious lack of intelligence on terrorist attacks. In fact, the public opinion of these two important institutions is that they occasionally have various problems among themselves. Without intelligence agencies knowing, bombs are going off in cities, people are losing their lives. Only hundreds of people have died in the last period of terrorist attacks in Suruç, Diyarbakır, Sultanahmet and Ankara. In such an environment, it is evident that the National Intelligence Agency and the Security Service have failed to carry out their duties. For this purpose, the discovery of intelligence weaknesses in the National Intelligence Service and the Security Service's terrorist attacks, the detection of security weaknesses in the terrorist incidents in Ankara, the establishment of a research commission under the framework of the Constitution's Articles 98.1, and Articles 104 and 105 of the TBM Court to determine the reasons why there is no appointment for Security Directorate authorities in some districts and districts, as well as for those responsible for preventing terrorist attacks. [[Malatya]] [[Slap]] [[Scholarship]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Samsun]] 6) Oğuz Kaan Salcı [[İstanbul]] 7) Kadirri Enis Berberoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] [[Edirne]] 10) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Edirne]] [[Kayseri]] 13) Mustafa Ali Balbay [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] 15) Ali Haydar Hakver [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Aydın]] [[Scholarship]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the opening and opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th, TBMM Association, in order to determine the reasons for air pollution, the effects of geothermal plants on land, water and air pollution, and the study of cancers above the Turkish average. [[Aydın]] [[Scholarship]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Ankara]] [[Burdur]] 6) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] 7) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[40s.]] [[Slap]] [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 16) Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Sivas]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Ankara]] [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 26) Kadirri Enis Berberoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] Depending on climate change or environmental pollution, over the next 35 years, 1/4 of all living species in the world will be extinct by scientists. Environmental factors -- reported by the World Health Organization (DSCE) -- are cited as the cause of 80 percent of all diseases and 25% of the world's deaths. In cancer, the impact of the environmental factor is 85-90 percent. In cases of cancer in Turkey, the environmental factor is 700 times higher than the world average. In recent years, 175,000 cases of cancer have been determined each year in Turkey, while the number is estimated to be 300,000 per 2023. Between 2010-2013, the first four diseases and deaths seen most in Turkey appear to be above the Turkish average of Aydın. The cancer, considered a disease of the age, has an average of 18 per cent in Turkey, while the average is 42 per cent in Aydın. Based on the deaths in the Enlightenment, it appears to be the closest to the Menderes River. According to the data conducted by both the Chair of the Aydın Medical Chamber and the Foundation for the Protection of Natural Life, water pollution, air pollution and soil pollution in Aydın has proved to be a serious threat to life. Studies have shown that geothermal plants established in Aydın are also an important factor in pollution to benefit from geothermal energy. In this context, the reasons for air pollution in Aydın and around Turkey, the causes of cancers above the average of Turkey, the protection of subterranean and above-ground water sources, the impact of increased geothermal plants on land, water and air pollution, we propose that the Constitutional Court be opened and conducted under Articles 104 and 105 of the TBM Institution. With all due respect. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Monday 17/7/2017 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Article of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The drafting of laws 490 and 491, which are part of the Commission's Commissions and Proposals of Laws, shall be taken to the first and second positions, respectively, and the order of other tasks shall be based on this; 17/7/2017 on Monday (today) the agenda for the extension of the state-of-the-country state of the Prime Minister's thesis on the extension of the state-of-the-art (of-the-art) and on the work of the 14/7/2017, and on the 3/1165 of the Constitution (3/1166) and on the release of Article 92 of the 3/1166 of the Constitution to foreign countries of Turkish Armed Forces. On Tuesday (July 18th and July 25, 2017), the lack of verbal questions was discussed. Until the meeting of Tuesday (July 18th, 2017) was completed by the 464th Bill of the Law; Until the meeting of Wednesday (July 19th, 2017) was completed by the 478th Bill of the Law; Until the meeting of Thursday (July 20, 2017) on Thursday (July 20, 2017), until the meeting of the talks of the Law Bill No. 365; On Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays and Mondays at 14 p.m., except on weekdays, 21, 24, 28, 29, 30 and 31 July 2017. Meeting at 00 and discussing the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and other jobs from the Commissions" on the agenda; Until Friday (July 21st, 2017) the meeting of the talks of the 367th Legislature was completed; Until the meeting of Monday (July 24th 2017), until the meeting of the 369th legislature, until the meeting of the talks; Until the meeting of Tuesday (July 25th, 2017), until the meeting of the 771th Bill of the Law, the talks were completed; Until the meeting of Wednesday (July 26, 2017) was completed by the 374th Bill of the Law; Until the meeting of Thursday (July 27, 2017), until the meeting of the Legislature, number 376, was completed; Until the meeting of Friday (July 28, 2017) of the 382th Bill of Laws until the completion of the talks on Friday (July 28, 2017); Until Saturday (July 29th, 2017) the meeting of the 385th Bill of Laws until the completion of the talks; Until the meeting of Sunday (July 30, 2017) on Sunday's merger, until the completion of the talks on the Legislature Bill No. 459; Until the meeting of Monday (July 31st, 2017) was completed by the Law Bill No. 457; To continue his work, The draft laws 490 and 491 were proposed to be considered the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code and to have its sections in the accompanying form. In favour of the group's proposal for Justice and Development Party, Kurıkkale MP Ramadan Can will speak first. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0044par0413	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. With our group proposal, we are receiving the draft draft Law on Changes in Some Laws in the Purpose of Resolving Problems in the Processing of Regional Courts and District Government Courts, which are 490 rows to the first place on the agenda. Again, with the group's proposal, we take the Law of Business Courts, number 491, to the second place on the agenda; it consists of 40 articles and two chapters. Again, we recommend that both of them be discussed as the main law, along with the Law bill, as well as the Law on Change in Some Laws, in the Purpose of the Processing of District Courts and District Government Courts, 490. We also recommend the meeting as of today, as of 3/1165, as well as 3/1166, regarding the State of Emergency and the deployment of troops abroad. In addition, we recommend that in Tuesday's merger, July 18th, the 464th legislature be completed until the Bill of Law, which, by the way, cannot be discussed verbally on Tuesdays 18th and July 25th. Again, on Mondays, Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays, except for working days until July 31st, 14th of the General Assembly. We propose to run the House, if the General Assembly approves our group proposal, until the talks of law proposals and proposals are completed on the agenda. The group welcomes our proposal to your appreciation, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0045par0417	Thank you, Mr. Can. The Justice and Development Party will speak first against the group's proposal, Mr. Atila Sertel, the Izmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Sertel.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0046par0421	Mr. President, I salute you. Dear fellow lawmakers, today we see the Justice and Development Party's extraordinary state bringing in a three-month extension request. In fact, the Justice and Development Party is a party that boasts that during its period of power, when the last election process began, it will take on an extraordinary form and calls for a vote from the community, claiming it will pave the way for democracy and freedoms in Turkey. There is no justice left, there is no trust and there is no faith left in the society of a party that is focused on creating opportunities in its own environment, and there is no trust in what a party will say after that, because the way that a party who boasts about lifting its extraordinary state is in fact a dead end, by violating people's rights, law, justice, and people's trade, the future, the future, the future of their children. At the end of this dead end, our people in Turkey, our citizens in the Republic of Turkey, will give the necessary lesson in the first election. In fact, this extraordinary demand of the Justice and Development Party to extend this extraordinary state is the will of one person in its own internal structure, because people seeking rights and justice in Turkey are multiplying and the opposition is increasing. The Republican People's Party carried out a march under these conditions, and this march, which was only open to all parts of the society with no party flags, was a march of thirst for justice, democracy, human rights and freedoms. 500 miles of walk, but no one's nose bleeds under extraordinary circumstances, no one gets hurt. In the history of the Republic of Turkey, it was also an example of democracy. Dear friends, there were workers on that march, there were peasants, there were producers, there were teachers, there were retired teachers, there were conspiracy victims, there were Ergenekon victims officers. He had voted for the Justice and Development Party in the past, but at the point where hundreds of thousands of people today are running and meeting in search of democracy and justice, he has been viewed as a measure aimed at extending this extraordinary state of justice and development and setting up a set in front of the social take-off. You don't let it go for nothing, because you created a world where journalists couldn't write freely, under extraordinary circumstances. You arrested journalists and arrested a friend of ours who wrote books by the Army of the Islamic Army in the past, such as Ahmet Şık. You made a friend of ours who grew up in Adana, lived in Antalya, and was trained in communication. You've made Kasdri Gürsel. You have declared my friend Hakan Kara, who has never written political writing in his life, who is an expert in IT and is very skilled in computing, and who has written in the technical sense of the Republic, my brother, my brother, who I have known from İzmir for thirty years, a person who has not written political writing. You have declared Gökmen Ulul, and our brother Mediha, and put him in prison. Look, Mr. President, it's said that two people have press cards. It's said that some of the people in the prison are bank robbers, some of them are on different charges. I'm a friend of yours who's been on the press card commission for six years. I'm a friend of yours who was on that commission as the President of the Federation of Journalists of Turkey and the Association of İzmir Journalists. Those guys almost all had press cards, guys. When he entered the prison, these cards were destroyed by the General Director's Office, the General Directorate of the Press-Journal. You became a government who destroyed the press card and then said, "No press card." You disbanded the commission, distributed the commission, gave the entire authority to the state. You took away the government's yellow press card as an identity to journalists, the right that exists, even the cards given by the commission, from our friends. We have friends who have press cards all the time, and when they went to prison, the press cards were canceled all the time. They can't make a case, they can't seek a right, and they can't express themselves because they're in there, and you've destroyed the rights of our friends by bringing them to court under extraordinary circumstances. The state of emergency doesn't just destroy freedom, it destroys the economy, of course. When we consider that our exports to Germany -- let me tell you the exact number in 2016 -- were 13 billion 163 million and our most exports were to Germany, and that 2 million 714,861 tourists came to Turkey in 2016 from Germany in terms of tourism, and that German tourists were tourists who spent money not in the system in Antalya, but in 2016 they were not in 2017 on the Turkish scale. It's because of the state of emergency. However, in 2016, Antalya, the capital of tourism, has lost 4.7 million tourists. You're actually doing bad things to this Turkey. You need to improve the economy, you need to increase tourism, and in these extraordinary conditions, you need to see very clearly that this is not possible. I have a friend who lives in Germany and works on tourism, who, unfortunately, has moved from the Republic of Turkey to German citizenship, and I don't approve of that side of it, but I spoke to him because he spoke in Turkish, how Turkey develops in terms of tourism, how it develops and attracts tourists; how can we increase tourism, how can we attract tourists, how can we attract tourists? Dear friends, if you love this country, do economic nationalism. If you have any sensitivity to this country, let your nationalism be on the road to Turkey's development. If you want to continue in the state of emergency by separating people, by altering people and destroying human rights and freedoms, go ahead, but this is a dead end. Look, I'm also a friend of yours who's a member of the CSI Commission. It's so unfair that the Maltepe rally where millions meet doesn't cover TRT news. Who's in charge of the TRT? Unfortunately for the state, there's a young friend who hasn't fulfilled his 12 years of legal rights, Ibrahim Eren. I'm the one who stated that Ibrahim Eren would be the general manager last year. Yes, I told Senol Göka. I said: "You don't actually run the TRT, but your Deputy General Director Ibrahim Eren is running it because he is directly connected to the AKP, and he has the chain of direct command." Now the chain of command is in charge. Of course TRT won't give us space, of course TRT will despise our rally, of course it'll be against us, it's not natural, but I'd like to say that that TRT gets its share of 85 per cent from the electricity and bandrol costs of all our people in Turkey, so it's a 100 per cent, and unfortunately -- let me just say -- in your words, it's a number that makes a certain number of people happy. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] These injustices must end, my friends, but first the extraordinary will be over. I salute you with respect. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0047par0435	Thank you, Mr. Sertel. In favour of the group proposal of the Justice and Development Party, Mr. Naci Bostancı, the Amassian MP, will speak last. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0048par0439	Mr. President, dear friends, today's group proposal is for the compliments of the General Assembly. If the General Assembly approves and agrees, we will discuss the laws the country needs here, and we will again make decisions regarding them under the discretion of the General Assembly. I've taken this opportunity to underline a subject and to finish my words this way. On July 15th, Turkey encountered a dark, extremely sneaky attempt to invade a structure called the society, which has infiltrated the environment of an organized structure, called the "Cizvits," in terms of ways and methods it may have used to compare with the same organization in history. Our President, our Prime Minister, opposition parties, with the total resistance of the public, has been repelled by this invasion attempt. Now, these gang members, those who have set out to serve these international circles, are being tried. Every minority group, every environment that wants to seize the will of the state in a sneaky and secret way is a structure that is definitely conflicting with the interests of the people, hiding from them, acting in the direction of hidden agendas, a dirty organization. All political parties try to get authority from the public through open, public programs, using legitimate floors for this job, it's clear what they're doing. So, this secret organization, with this dangerous structure, all political parties are genetically different, the way they are different from the way they are, different from the way they are with the people, different from the way they are with the state will, different from the way they are with the people, different from the way they are with the people. Parties may be different, they can compete with each other, but they're partners, and it's a moral and legal duty for each of them to cooperate with this sneaky, cheating organization, to support the state's struggle against this environment after July 15th. So first, it is everyone's duty to adopt a language and style that investigates the government's struggle with this environment, supports it, encourages it to run the fight. Could there be problems with human material in the process for one reason or another? Maybe. There's no perfect regime in the world, no perfect jobs, no perfect parties. It may be, it may be mistakes, but it doesn't cloud the existence of this fighting gang, the state's will to fight them, its direction. Critics can be done, but a shady political language, a political approach, which puts criticism ahead of the fight, almost in a way that gives a false sense of the struggle, and thus supports the perception that these gang members are trying to create abroad. We could be competing with each other, arguing with each other. We may differ in how the country is going to be run, but we have a fundamental partnership: we and this gang attempted a coup on July 15th to attract the will of this nation, hidden from the public, secret from the public. Let's not forget that. I've been promised to underline these issues. I made a promise to remind you once again that this is a vital, moral, moral work of parties, democratic organizations, against this nation, against those who vote for us, against those who don't vote for us, against everyone. Thank you, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0049par0444	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. The Justice and Development Party will finally speak against the group's proposal, Mr. Filiz Kerestecioğlu of İstanbul. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0050par0448	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, before the July 15 coup attempt, there was a structure that was not acceptable to us, but was very acceptable to those who are now in power, with the Gulen community and many of the MPs who were here who had previously walked along with this arrangement, with their many photographs and praises. However, even though we have repeatedly drawn attention to this construction, despite the fact that all opposition has drawn attention over and over again, it has not been taken into account in any way, and the same paths have been carried out, and the same words of praise have continued. Then, as you see, as you know, all of us have lived, the July 15 coup attempt was involved. Now, of course, these paths are not being taken into account when they are walking together, and at the same time, indeed, after what happened at the Impact Research Commission is obvious; in no way, the people who need to be looked at there, the people who need to be talked to, and the words of the opposition are not being addressed, so they will always be a questionable coup attempt. Now, Mr. President, the president of the AKP says: "Our nation will surely ask the army of traitors who wrote to the army of traitors." Now, who is it dealing with here, in fact, is not clear. Is he really dealing with the blow, or is he dealing with the opposition? Let our nation rest in peace, and the blood of our martyrs, and of our gases, shall not be left on the ground, he says. Yeah, we'd love to, but how? By not working properly on the coup research commission, or by not providing transparency, by not paying attention to the opposition's proposals, their opinions, by declaring the opposition an enemy, as if they had done the coup; how is this reckoning going to happen, and how will the blood of those people not really stay on the ground? Everyone has the right to ask that, the relatives of those who died in the first place. In this country, we've grown up to be eunuchs, and now you're trying to raise our children in the same way. Militarian rhetoric, and a lot of earlier, in fact, the reality of history, if it were made clear, scientists in this country would be much more exposed and able to grow up, while you're trying to raise small soldiers with militant rhetoric alone, and now you're trying to create other little soldiers. The epics only have one hero, says the president of the AKP. Legends don't have a single hero, true legends have many heroes. The people really are heroes of those epics. But with militantism, there is no democracy, there is no science with militantism, and with militantism, are we going to ask that Hans, are we going to ask George? Of course you're not going to ask Hans, of course you're not going to ask George, but you're going to look at the contracts you signed, what do those contracts say? After signing those contracts, did you prevent child abuse, prevent women's murders, see how human rights are, how many journalists are in prison, how many journalists are looking at them right now. If the journalist is not free, the country is not free. People's rights advocates, a country can't be free when the rights advocates you've set up today are in prisons, where you're facing a thousand kinds of accusations, a lot of bullshit, a lot of bullshit, a lot of rights defenders who are going to testify today. No yellow press card, huh? I'll tell you what the press with the yellow cards is doing. In the cases of our MPs in prison and our imprisoned MPs in prison, those yellow press cards have been released before the court has announced its verdict. That's the reporter with the yellow press card? You want these? We're going to be free with these? Are we supposed to look each other in the face with these? When you look at the last two and a half years, which of our citizens can actually get free news, what channel do we have, what newspaper do we have? I'm a congressman, and when I go with the airlines, I don't see any newspaper but the morning paper, the Vatan newspaper. That's freedom? That was the grace of God. This is how you use God's undeserved kindness. By declaring the State of Emergency on July 20th, you use God's undeserved kindness to silence anyone who opposes it in this way. Well, that's what it's really meant to be done, folks. And you, as lawmakers who have come here, all of you have read about it, as people who have gone through the minimum human rights process, you let us be enemies of each other, you allow this militant and angry language the same way, and from time to time, you use them in a very painful way. Yes, I'd like to give you another example: we brought the State of Emergency to make the business world more comfortable. Do you have any problems, any problems in the business world? When we were in office, the State of Emergency was there, and now we're not allowed to take advantage of the State of Emergency, we're using the State of Emergency for this. Isn't it obvious? That's why we use the State of Emergency. I mean, we use the State of Emergency to ban strikes. We use the State of Emergency to ban freedom. A president can't be the President of workers if he says these words to the workers. If a President stood up and spoke out against the coup attempt, not against the coupgers, but against the opposition, as well as by ignoring it here, not everyone can be President, what he can be is the AKP's President, which has already happened, and good luck to him. There's another thing I want to say to you. Mr. Prime Minister is here, and the Minister of Justice is here. I'm telling you, they need to dress them in special clothes and come to court like they did in Guantanamo. There's no such thing as a grand toilet in court -- and then there's the back -- because the victim says we need to get what's rightfully for our oppressed brothers. Are you taking revenge or are you judging? You've never heard of such a thing as the purity of innocence? Is he a judge? How is it possible to impose one kind of dress on people? What do you want now? You want riots in prisons the same way? We've seen September 12th, we've seen other times, and we've seen the end of martial law courts in one kind of dress-up, and I've seen people who have come to those courts in their underwear, refusing to wear one kind of dress, this country that's going to go through the same thing. Is that what you want? Guantanamo is also the shame of the 21st century in Abu Ghraib prison, as well as the practices of Guantanamo. The only type is the September 12th military fascist coup. If you're going to impose this today, all you're saying is that we want the prisons to be one type, and we want the country to be one type. But our people, we will never allow it. This country is very colorful, and there will never be a single type. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0051par0459	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. I'll put the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0052par0463	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit01spe0051par0464	We've got a roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Tarthan, Mr. Cettel, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Pineak, Mr. Topal, Mr. Yüncem, Mr. Bektasoglu, Mr. Engin, Mr. Baykal, Mr. Turpcu, Mr. Göker, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Öztrak, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Çakırözer. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0051par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote of the Justice and Development Party group's proposal was voted, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you five minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to your votes the group proposal of the Justice and Development Party: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, under the decision taken, we will begin negotiations with the Prime Minister's statements issued in accordance with Articles 121 and 92 of the Constitution. I read the Prime Minister's statement issued according to Article 121 of the Constitution, which is ranked in the 1st place: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The extraordinary state of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey announced on 21/7/2016 and was announced throughout the country by decision 1116/2017 and is in place under Resolution 1139, and is on Wednesday (7/7/2017). It was agreed on 17/7/2017 by the Council of Ministers to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for three months to extend its extension from 00. I'll give you what you need. Government? Here. Congressmans, we will begin negotiations with the Prime Minister's thesis. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Samsun MP Erhan Usta will be speaking on behalf of Tezkere. Here you are, Mr. Master, 20 minutes to talk.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0053par0027	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have received a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action for the Prime Minister's Office for the three-month extension of the state of emergency, with respect to the General Assembly. We're always saying that Turkey was exposed to a treacherous coup attempt on July 15th, and we've been under extraordinary management for about a year now. This is the 5th statement. So far, we've supported all of the arguments in the General Assembly as the National Movement Party Group. Because Turkey has experienced the most extraordinary situation, it's difficult to deal with an unusual situation under the usual circumstances. Hence, it is evident that fighting extraordinary methods is also a necessity. In this sense, we, the National Movement Party, have so far supported thesis on the extension of the State of Emergency, and we will, of course, support this statement. Now, we say that Turkey is facing serious threats. Of course, in this sense, the government, the government's rulers, the state's institutions need to be strengthened, and this is one of the things that is either an extraordinary state of state or an extraordinary state of affairs management is a necessity in this sense, I'm afraid, a necessity. Now, of course, July 15th... what's July 15th? Maybe we should talk about this a little more. I care about this for this: I don't think July 15 is a complete consensus on exactly what happened in our country, and because it didn't happen, there's no complete agreement on fighting methods and solutions. The fact that the polarizations, the infertile fights, maybe we don't have a complete understanding of what July 15th really is. July 15th is, of course, a coup attempt first. July 15th is also an attempt to invade tacticians, theorists, couriers, contractors, planners, gunmen in the field; a number of traitors hidden in military camouflage, a handful of snakes have spread fire on our nation, threatened our national institutions and organizations, attacked them mercilessly. In fact, the 15th of July is an unfinished account in Çanakkale. July 15th is a matter of the enemies we pursued in the national struggle to strike Turkey again. July 15th has been the name of the centuries-old Anatolian invasion in this era. Now, if we see the 15th of July this way, then it's clear that we can all fight against July 15th together in unity. So July 15 is actually a historic reckoning of the Turks or the Turkish nation; seven duvets on one side, the Republic of Turkey or the Turkish nation on the other. So on July 15th, the traitors, in fact, who wanted to invade this country or attempt a coup, attacked not just one person, not one idea, but the entire Turkish nation, 80 million, they attacked the entire state. So July 15th is actually targeting the Turkish nation, but it's an attempt to corrupt Islam into a selephic understanding, and I'd also like to offer it to you as a subject that must be highlighted. So we shouldn't look at the position on July 15th, but when we look at the July 15th issue with a more strategic approach, it's our duty to read the dangers at the source and break the game focus, and that's the way to see it. Now, of course, the 15th of July happened, unfortunately, and in order for the 15th of July to never happen again, everyone has to do exactly what they're supposed to do. In this sense, of course, the great task falls to those who run the state and the government -- I'm about to do my evaluation on this in detail -- but also to all politicians, our political parties -- and there are important tasks. Basically what we're trying to achieve is that unity is the spirit of unity, unity is the spirit of unity. Now, the reasons that led to Turkey's July 15th, which led to this treacherous coup attempt -- let's say one or the other -- not in the beginning, maybe it's not right to do a ranking -- were, in fact, not important enough to hire and rise in the state. These traitors have infiltrated the country's institutions because they were severely favoured at a certain time. What we have to do from now on, when we're running the government, I mean, we're going to get the job up, we're going to bring it to the top of the line, we're going to have to stick with it in no way. When we leave Liakat, when we don't put it in front of us as a basic principle, fundamental philosophy, Turkey will have to face similar risks again, I want to stress that. We see very serious threats. Again, we see that there are some purchases for a certain group or that they are active under the government, which is wrong. The only criteria should be: is this person a traitor or not? If he's not a traitor, if he's not a traitor, then all the colors in this country should have the right to work in this country's administration, in the state institutions, that's how we should run the state. In this sense, public administration... look, there's a lot of wear and tear in the institutions of the state -- I've done this assessment myself a few times here, and so have our other friends -- there's a lot of wear and tear. We can say that for economic institutions, we can say that for security institutions, we can say that for other institutions. It's actually about merit. Our institutions shouldn't lose any more dignity, this needs to be stopped. In order for institutions to gain dignity, their administration, sir, would have to be done very properly, according to objective rules. It's the only way we can get credit for our institutions. We need to keep the country away from vicious political strife. So you really have to separate between July 15th and July 15th. Of course, there are many things we can say politically, but if July 15th is an attempt to invade this country, if we see it as an attempt by a number of invaders who have been targeting this country for centuries as an attempt to invade this country again, then we need to work together on the country's ability to overcome these problems at the beka level as quickly as possible. Of course, we say politicians are in charge. And there's also a struggle -- our government has a fight with the GER, and I'm going to do a little bit here -- there's a lot of serious harm to be done, sir, but of course, it's also necessary to underline these victims, and you have to avoid that. In all levels, the fight against Strongman should be maintained correctly at the level of sub, medium, upper level, here, bureaucrat, businessman, politician. Now, there is a struggle with ▪ in every region, but the political institution is still not being addressed. It is our right, of course, to ask the question, did it not infiltrate this political institution? The fight must be carried out at every level of political institution, at every level of political institution -- in the country, at work, the mayor, the mayor, the general assembly member; Ankara headquarters, MP, minister, whatever level it is -- in the political institution as soon as possible. We don't have people. No one can say, "We don't have people." Such a statement would interfere with the fight with the fight, causing harm to the fight against the fight. And everyone needs to avoid that kind of talk. There's a small claim going on about a citizen, about a public official: here, I've seen him at a dinner at some time or other. Now, on that occasion, the state will open a criminal investigation, an administrative investigation. As for politicians -- there's no need to blame -- when you turn on the Internet, you can see a lot of things; we see past cooperation, deep cooperation, ongoing cooperation, even after July 15th, even after 17-25. I don't understand why our prosecutors don't act on them, what they're waiting for. So when we leave this side, we can't go much further on one foot, it's impossible to stand on one foot, it's impossible to get any distance on one foot. Therefore, you need to go over your political foot. We will not be able to reduce Turkey's risks unless it is gone. If the people of the political institution are not used today by those who want to invade this country, they will be asked to be used again tomorrow. If there is, there is a political need to lower their cover and discredit them in society. This is a vital issue in front of us. Of course, we say that we support the State of Emergency; sir, we say that the state should have a strong hand about the State of Emergency, but of course, we need a goal for the country to normalize as soon as possible, so we need to have a normalisation goal. This, of course, will only be possible with the immediate end of this struggle. The cause, the blow, the coup d'état, should not be covered. These need to be analysed in a very healthy manner. Of course, in this struggle, universal law norms must not be separated from the principles of fair judgment. We've said this once and for all, but this warning has to be repeated. Now, once upon a time, there's a lot of sub-level people being processed for false reports and complaints, and there's serious casualties. You have to avoid them, the healthy investigation has to be done. The right to defend is a universal right. We know that many people who can't use their right to defend themselves have been expelled from the public without any defenses. And the right to defend must be done in the best possible way, both in administrative and judicial procedures. The mechanisms created because of the objection and the objection mechanisms must also be operated healthyly. It's just for show... now everybody's throwing the ball at each other. So, here, let's say that one vice president is doing these procedures at the university, and the other vice president is objecting to a board of presidents, but that's where we see that nothing's actually been done. Now in institutions and in the political world, there's a connection between this and that. Look, someone you call a hero today is being arrested tomorrow, and we had examples of this last week. It's only a fair trial that solves this interconnection. So I think it's the only way to solve the crypto property of this interconnection and this is how we're going to get through it. Now, of course, when we're talking about these GERPs and traitorous coupkers, it's also important to make the Turkish soldier weak, to make the Turkish army weak. There are some short films, posters, for July 15th. I think they hurt our people, our soldiers, our army. You gotta be careful around here. So when you look at these things, you think of the people who are preparing them right away, the people who are preparing them, the people who are doing it, the people who are doing it, the people who are doing it, the people who are doing it, the people who are doing it. Whether it's on these posters or in the movies -- I'm telling you this because it's still on TV -- with the army, the military, and our nation -- it's not supposed to be created. We celebrate the martyrs, the veterans of the 15th of July, at every opportunity, and we express our gratitude to them, but in doing so, of course, we have been offering martyrs for the unity and integrity of this country for many years, and there should be no distinction among those martyrs. The distinction between martyrs and veterans also hurts our nation. And I think everyone should be very careful about that. Now, of course, it's about normalizing the country, but we're saying that the continuation of the State of Emergency -- I mean, in today's terms -- is a limitation of the freedoms -- and to present it would hurt the fight against terrorism. Here I think that our political parties and our fellow reviewers should also be careful. Now, of course, the extension of this State of Emergency should also be seen as an opportunity to correct the wrong actions, the victims that have occurred, and our institutions need to consider that possibility. So we think that while exports are being suspended, our very falcon-like institutions are being very stingy with the extradition of even those who have clearly shown their innocence in return, very timid, very cowardly. Since this State of Emergency will not continue forever, the resolution of all of their courts will put the Turkish judiciary under a very serious burden. So we need to see this as an opportunity to rectify the victims that have arisen within the framework of these State of Emergency decrees. As a result, we can only succeed in this struggle in unity. I think that's the only way we can solve our problems. An enemy cannot enter a nation without entering, as the poet puts it. As the crowd hits, the heart can't digest the ball. I consider that if we act together, we will avoid the great danger. I salute the General Assembly by interrupting my speech here. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0054par0054	Thank you, Mr. Master. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Adana MP, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş will speak. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0055par0058	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In fact, while we should be on summer vacation, we're experiencing a process in the work of the Constitutional Commission, a highly accelerated General Assembly, while the Assembly should be on vacation. It's being rushed. Someone's in a hurry, but we're in no hurry. In particular, the opposition parties are forced to deal with this rush, and we have to keep up with the process, so let me make it clear. And today, as if we had no other problems, this time, just like the Civil Code agenda, the State of Emergency is standing in front of us. The State of Emergency must be extended and extended. So, what did we experience with the State of Emergency? Just two days ago, we all spent the anniversary of July 15th together. Why should the State of Emergency not be extended, and why should it not be carried out in such an arbitrary manner with the State of Emergency? I'd like to rephrase these ideas that we initially shared as the Democratic Party of Peoples. Yeah, it's been a year since July 15th, today's been a year and two days. The country was scorched a year ago, with exploding bombs, rights violations, curfews, economic crises, deaths, great sufferings; yes, we were scorched before July 15th. The State of Emergency didn't exist yet, but an actual State of Emergency was being carried out. Parliament was not legislating, and the rules of law were usually suspended by regulations and regulations, and the administration was continued. And in the process, the bombs were dropped and thrown into the House -- we've talked about it a lot -- there's been chaos. Then the coup attempt was blocked, and it was said to have been prevented. He called it the ruling party, the "democracy," called it the "democracy." We were all here that day as the group's vice presidents, and we had our group's vice president -- gathered together, and, yes, a joint statement was issued against this terrible coup by the co-operation of the four parties. Now -- we told you then -- since the coup was blocked, it was time to take a step towards democracy. But that's how it happened? No. On July 20th, the coup was actually used as a blessing, and the State of Emergency was declared. In fact, the anniversary of July 20 is in three days; today is the 17th, and three days later is the anniversary of July 20th. In order to condemn the State of Emergency, we need to discuss the new State of Emergency coup here, or July 15th, not the celebrations, because there is no holiday of democracy to celebrate, and there is no practice of democracy to celebrate. Yes, on August 7th, we also experienced Yenikapi. They wanted to be crowned with democracy, but there was no soul, because there was no HDP, so democracy can't be spoken of in a place without the third largest party. The coup attempt was defied, and in the end, we made it very clear that democratic steps had to be taken, that the most important channel of fighting coup attempts was democracy, that the only channel was democracy, but of course no one listened, they read what they knew. At that time, when the State of Emergency was declared, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice sent messages that it would be limited to three months, and that it would be removed in three months, even in a calming -- in a nail -- that it couldn't be extended. Is that all it was? No. They said: "We have declared the State of Emergency to ourselves. " Like yesterday, the State declared him the State of Emergency. We'll isolate the bureaucracy, these coupgers, the parallelists, the Fetullahists. It's not what you think. They said. I had that exact conversation on July 20th. This will not be as you would have thought. Of course, it has not been fulfilled, as did the other promises, such as the unresolved words, the steps of one hundred and eighty degrees, and the year of the State of Emergency is over. This time, instead of regulations and regulations, the ruling by law has now become the most basic tracking channel. I've seen it on social media recently, the most widely read newspaper is the official newspaper, you know. Everyone is looking forward to the Official Gazette because it can be exported at any moment and its name will be found in the Official Gazette. There's no point in reading other newspapers, because it's run entirely by the direction of power. Thousands of citizens were expelled from their professions, and the victimism grew more and more. So it's July 20th after July 15th, and then April 16th, and since then, it's a country that's been ruled by the will of one person, by the will of one person, by the decree of the law. And we know that if we don't put this as many different ways as we want, if we don't call it right, we certainly won't be able to fight it properly. So, what really happened? Right now, after the State of Emergency, there are thousands of people who have not been brought to trial. Mr. Demirtaş, our co-Chair at first -- eight and a half months -- and on November 4th, some of our friends who were taken into custody and held as political hostages still haven't been brought to trial. In order to prevent the speech of our co-Chair Demirtaş, to block his messages to Turkey, to the world, he was persistently and stubbornly not initially given the day of trial; he is now being prevented from going to the courts in particular with handcuffs. 170 journalists are currently under arrest, 170. We've made a question proposal recently, and it's probably not going to be answered, just like the others haven't. There are two conflicting digits of the AKP's president and especially the Minister of Justice; one of them said.3 journalists, Erdogan said. We're really wondering who are the people who have access to this quality of journalism, and why don't you explain, because the number of journalists we know is now 170. Thousands of judges, prosecutors, thousands, tens of thousands of public officials are now in prison. I don't like to say the numbers, and I don't like to listen to them, because these exports, these arrests are much bigger than numbers, they cover much larger areas. Each number means a life, a family means an environment, a life story. So when you say 110,000, it may sound simple when you say 200,000, but -- we all have people close to us -- who have been exported -- who have not touched the soap, who have only done their job, and whose only crime is not to be a AKP member, who doesn't swear to them or suck up to them, has been expelled from the thousands of officers. In such a picture, the State of Emergency is asked to extend. Well, what was it, really? While all this is being done, tens of thousands of people are being exported overnight, the coup still has no political foot. On the 1st anniversary, there is still no improvement in political footwork. In fact, it was so advanced that Erdogan said in his speech, "What did you want?" he said. There's an anecdote on the Strike Commission that I still smile at when I remember. A 1967 receipt was issued, I think it belonged to the CHP. It's a fake, so that's what they said, and I'm not even discussing your forgery, so let's just say it's true. In 1967, a receipt was issued allegedly 50 years ago -- as a joke indeed -- but until yesterday, alliances, labor troops, visits, joint management are ignored. Can that happen now? I mean, really, it's the only way to make fun of the country's mind, but no one makes fun of its mind, everyone knows the reality. On top of that, there were major ceremonies that began weeks before July 15th, called the festival of democracy. I've been in my constituency for two days, I've been in Adana; at least 10 or 15 people -- I'm talking about people on the road -- said: "Ya, why do they send us a copy?" One gigabyte, one day the phones were free, and the other night when everyone answered their phones -- I promised the citizens I'd ask them from the stand, so I put this in order to ask them, and I'm a witness -- you all must have witnessed the voice of Erdogan. Who gave you this money? I'm asking the authorities, one day, who did you give such a serious amount to, who did you give it to? It's an app that doesn't exist on other holidays, called the Festival of Democracy. Why is the free prepaid, free Internet, why is everyone answering their phones with the President's voice? Now, it goes without saying that there's an insecurities going on here. Now, with a little bit of up-to-date data on this bet about democracy, and about the fact that we celebrate the holiday of democracy and why we extend the State of Emergency, I'd like to talk to them about it. The day before July 15th, 7,395 people were discharged the day before. Is that even possible? An important part of these are workers, civil servants, who work in municipalities, trustees. So it's still not over in a year, that's the message they want to send. We've been throwing and throwing and throwing and throwing for a year. They can't finish, what is that? So, for some reason, the mind, the will that detained thousands of people in one night, hid 8,000 people on July 15th, and that night they exported them, too. Somehow we don't get clear numbers in public exports. I'm also a member of the law, and I'm now a strict official newspaper follower. Look at one system, and it's really hard to learn; they write separately, and it's hard to find that sum. So, what else? And I'll tell you about that, before you pay the salary, so there's no explanation for the injury anyway. Again, what is the State of Emergency and the Council of Ministers doing here? He's making a court decision, actually, making himself court-martialed. There is no investigation into citizens, there is no prosecution, there is no conviction, there is no legal reason that he cannot continue to serve as an officer, but the Council of Ministers is sitting down, issuing a decree; 10,000, 20,000, 30,000, exporting from the profession. Last time, the president of the AKP said: "What should we do, let them go and work in private, do we have to feed them?" The spirit of Canaan's Universe probably has a lot of ringing in its ears. And he said, "Should we feed him so that we don't hang him?" Now Erdogan says: "Why should I make him work in the government, let him work in private?" What kind of mind is that? How can the Council of Ministers export them without an investigation? There is no such principle in law, in the state of law. At the opening yesterday, on July 15th, the Speaker of Parliament had a very unfortunate intervention, indeed he says: "You can't say: 'Zulum'. We'll say 'E' if there's persecution, we'll say 'Izlüm', 'If there's pressure, there's torture, there's torture.'" Does he have a duty here to answer our reports? That's exactly what the government and the Speaker of Parliament are saying right now is being expressed as one of the elements of democracy, and in fact, Mr. Hero, our Speaker of Parliament, said: "Turkey is run by democracy." But in a country now ruled by democracy, we couldn't stand by and watch Semih Özakça and Nuriya Güln have lost their lives, and there's something to do with them. Their families come to visit from time to time, and there are moments when it's really impossible to meet, when the word ends, and thousands of victims like this continue. So, why hasn't the Police, Justice, and Religion been cleared yet, and the question remains as it really is. But, of course, we're not surprised anymore, or rather, society isn't. But my advice to all citizens of Turkey, my advice, my request: Oh, don't stop being surprised, be surprised, react, it shouldn't normalize. What is happening now in Turkey is not normal. Why is that? We reject the concept of habitability, we reject the concept of surprise, we oppose surprise and habit, because none of this is normal. Well, there are thousands of people connected to so many terrorist organizations, and we have powerful rulers. Did you just realize that, or did you never know it until today? And where are all these hundreds of thousands of people, political feet in the Fetulist? Who would be the Prime Minister of this coup, who would be the Council of Ministers, who would act after this coup? Since there is such a thing, expose it; the citizen asks us, and we say: "We wait, the investigation continues." But the bureaucrats continue to be cropped and mowed. Now, there's a lot of numbers, obviously, that's the last minute of my time before I want to give you the data -- I want to say that the State of Emergency has not contributed a bit to Turkey. Let alone contribute, let alone progress, the right to public security and freedom of citizens, the right to travel, the right to work for citizens, the right to the right to the citizen's right to democratic resistance, the right to the citizen's political rights. The most common of these now is, in our opinion, a system that, as their target, is, of course, a system that is considered a blessing when the State of Emergency is heading towards a completely arbitrary regime, where the Council of Ministers has the authority to sit on its own and make decisions about 80 million citizens in Turkey. We said last year, two days before July 20th, two days later... we said: "If the state is to be declared, the life of a citizen should not be affected." But let's go out on the street right now, we can't make a press statement on the street. The Human Rights Monument is in custody on Yüksel Street, where people can't make a press statement. As part of the freedom of thought and expression of one of our co-Chairs Figen Yüksekdağ, he was unlawfully deputized, and Nursel Aydoğan was deputized, and with instructions, new files are given every day. I've often said that, but he doesn't judge. The Supreme Court can't decide or decide after this practice during the State of Emergency. I'd also like to address the Supreme Court from the council seat: state your decision. Don't resist your decision any longer. Every day you don't reveal your decision, the suspects get bigger. Confirm or deny your inclusion. In the name of the law, it's unacceptable for anyone to stand by for eight and a half months in prison for people who don't have their freedom. And they have a prison, especially during the State of Emergency, other than discharges, layoffs, corruption, and a lot of other issues that I consider to be a lot of. The State of Emergency - I told you last year - comes to the first prisons. In prisons right now, there's really pressure, torture, persecution, and there's really unacceptable practices where prisoners, convicts, because no matter what you say, they come up with an answer on the basis of the State of Emergency. And what we're doing is, I've applied to the Human Rights Commission over and over again, asked for a review, but there's no answer. Currently, two of our fellow members of the Parliament's Human Rights Commission are in prison: Dear Ayhan Bilgen and Burcu Çelik. They were also in the Prison Subcommittee, but they're in prison, and the Human Rights Commission isn't answering their questions. Therefore, the extension of the State of Emergency will certainly deepen darkness, allowing Turkey to flip over and lose together at a time when it is speeding towards the cliff. Come, on this 1st anniversary, let's crown anti-corruption with democracy, and live by democratic rule of law for the days when we will celebrate democracy without democracy, and let's vote no on this statement today. We, the People's Democratic Party, certainly say no to the State of Emergency; we demonstrate our stand for law, democracy, rights and freedoms. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0056par0083	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mersin MP Aytuğ Atcı will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0057par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, it is Wednesday (July 19, 2017) that the extraordinary state of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey declared by its July 21, 2016 resolution 1116, throughout the country. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party group on behalf of the Prime Minister's thesis that it will be extended for three months. I salute lawmakers who are truly opposed to coups, who do not use their coups for personal gains, party interests, or for the benefit of the community. Dear friends, a year ago, former partners of power attempted a coup. This coup attempt was a treasonous attack against the Republic of Turkey, which Ataturk had described as a secular, democratic, social law state. In this attack, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and all democratic forces initially resisted, and the coup was successfully and quickly repelled in as short as 15 hours, according to the Prime Minister's statement. So no person, no institution, no organization, no group should show their ignorance of ownership alone. All the forces of civil and military democracy have been part of this honorable resistance. The nation, part of this honorable resistance, stood up against the coupters, and unfortunately we had 250 martyrs and about 2,200 gases. I ask God's mercy for our martyrs, and I express my gratitude to our veterans. However, I strongly condemn those who discriminate between martyrs and veterans and MPs. There should be no difference between a soldier who died in a low, treacherous coup attempt on August 30th or any other day for his country, but you, especially the martyrs of July 15th, are my martyrs. In his logic, you have tried to make these martyrs' rights and the dignity of these martyrs seem different from other martyrs, and you have hurt the honor and honor of our martyrs. It wasn't enough, you discriminated between veterans, as if the July 15th veterans -- in a nail -- were your veterans and others as if they were someone else's veterans. That's not enough, you've made a distinction among the MPs who were here on the night of the coup. And then, at the special session of July 15th, we looked at a bag on our desks, and we looked at it, and the beautiful albums were made, and on the night of July 15th, you didn't put in any of those MPs sitting on the bench, you obviously didn't put in any of the members of the opposition party. Only, and only the following day, Mr. President, was on the album, but that night, you ignored all other MPs, except the AKP MPs, who were willing to sacrifice their heart, body, and everything in this House. I mean, what did that get you, have you grown up, or have you grown proud, or what? You tried to send a message to the people that, look, we stopped the coup. You've only brought yourself to a lower level, and you've dishonored this honorable, honorable resistance. That's why you've started to discriminate between martyrs, veterans, lawmakers, basically everyone. Yeah, you think you're running the government with a system built on impact. You tried to turn this treacherous coup into an opportunity, and I'm not saying that. While the bombs were still falling, Mr. Prime Minister, I wonder which tunnel was in, where the ministers were, while these were unknown, the President had made it clear to us in one sentence exactly what this coup was. It was four o'clock on the night of that treacherous coup. 00, Mr. President says, "This coup is a blessing from God. " Now, did you use this blow to the end, which you see as a blessing from God? Did you take advantage of his flesh, his milk, his hair, his hair, everything? Did you turn it into an opportunity? Yeah. That's the problem right there, that's the problem right there. So while we're trying to declare a state of emergency here, we're going to take the Attorney General on this stand, dear friends, and we're going to announce a state of emergency for three months, but we don't think it's going to take three months. In less than three months, God willing, we'll get this done. He promised that we would solve this matter by issuing a decree under one law.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0058par0091	That's right, that's right.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0057par0092	Now it's been a year, and every three months it's been extended. Look, honor, honor, dignity is very important to all of us, but it's much more important to politicians. What does the Minister of Justice, the representative of the government, who made this promise here that day, think? Well, if you didn't know better, then don't talk. What do you mean you don't know? Did I put these people inside the state? Did I put these men in the army? Did I cut the ribbons of these banks when you wrote dozens of reports about these people?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0058par0093	Books have been written, sir, books.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0057par0094	Their schools are very good schools, so let's print some money for the Olympics. Am I the one who said that? It was you. It was you guys. You're the one who knew where you put the man. So you knew where to get them out of, where to get them out of. It would have been enough for you for three months, but you enjoyed the opportunity so much that you tried to use the coup this time. You were so pleased with the impact, that you were so pleased with the state of emergency that you began to use the extraordinary state of things, other than the extraordinary state of mind. Our Constitution dictates that a state of emergency may happen to a country -- God forbid, but it may -- in such a case, you can declare a state of emergency. However, your work and actions are only valid for the work that leads to an extraordinary situation. What have you done? I'm going to fight it. You've stood up, you've removed the election to be president of universities. You like that, don't you? What did you do? You brought a winter tire app. You got your hands on the marriage programs. Sir, you've issued some decrees on whether or not to be a medic at health care centers. Yeah, it's a shame! We are a strong country, we are a great state, we are ruled by the Constitution. The Constitution commands you, not to listen to the commandments of the Constitution, but to break them under your feet, and then you say: "We do good deeds. Look, now, I'm going to read you a paragraph. I wonder who said this paragraph. The purpose of the state of emergency is to establish the most effective steps necessary to eliminate this threat to democracy, the state of law, the rights and freedom of our citizens in our country. This practice is certainly not against democracy, law, freedom; rather, it is intended to preserve and strengthen these values. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, president of the AKP (AKP). When does he say it? He's telling me just when the State of Emergency will be declared. I look at words, I look at sentences, it's perfect if the State of Emergency isn't going to be announced, but I think it's ridiculous for a ruling who's been in power for 15 years to do this and a party who can't do it and then announces that they're going to do it, and I think it's ridiculous. If you don't bring these values, rights, freedom, human rights to the country under the usual circumstances, now you're telling me that we're going to do this extraordinaryly, and we're taking it out at once. I thought you said the word was out. I thought you promised. What happened to our honor and honor? What's up, guys? How did we end up in these situations? Now, I'll bring you another statement, I'll read you another paragraph. Look how you used the State of Emergency. The person says: I am speaking to our employers, especially the state from here. Please put aside the understanding of winning by exploiting the laborer's sweat when he gives his appreciation for the wages. I will sign the gold. Know that giving the wages of a worker will increase your blessings, and will make you richer. By restricting workers' wages and social rights, there is no gain by not taking measures to protect the worker from business accidents and occupational illness, and that gain is forbidden to us. What does the same person, Erdogan, say to the businessmen today? What the hell are you talking about? That's a good State of Emergency. Look, we stopped the workers' strike. Everything's running smoothly. What more do you want from God? He openly admits that the worker has taken the sweat off his forehead and prevented the strikes by taking refuge behind the State of Emergency. Friends, look, I never voted for Recep Tayyip Erdogan, I never voted for him. I don't know about your humanity, but I never liked your management style, and I never did, but our nation voted, the President did, okay. As long as it stays within the Constitution, it has to be the President of the entire country, not just the President of this country, but the President of this country. However, despite the fact that Recep Erdogan has achieved this, he has excluded the country with the sharpest part of his hand, almost two-in-a-half of it, and has completely differentiated some of it. You celebrated the 15th of July, you made the memorials, the martyrs, the martyrs, all together. We were here, of course, on the 15th of July of the nation, on the 15th of July of the palace, and we won't be. There the President says: "We've given 250 martyrs, we've saved 50 million lives in return. I repeat, Mr. Vice President: It's been about two or three hours since we just spoke, there's still no correction, there's no correction, there's no rebuttal, see, see, see! If I'm a physician and I can analyze Mr. President from between those lips, I said wrong, not 50 million, but 80 million. You won't hear the sentence. Oh, I don't want to hear it, but you won't. So, please listen to who you're dealing with, everyone, understand. Look, the data doesn't belong to me, the Department of Justice says we've processed 169,013 suspects. 169 generals were arrested. • Who put these generals there, friends? 7,098 colonels and lower rank, 8,815 law enforcement officers, say we've arrested 50,510 people in total. There are 24 governors in these. Who appointed these governors? There are 73 deputy governors in these, all of them. Who appointed them? In these, look, I have 116 governors, not one, not ten, who have been imprisoned in the service; the Minister of Justice says these numbers. Who put them there? Now, we're going to take a gun in your hand and we're going to deal with people who put bullets in your people, your coven, and we're going to make them pay the most for it, but you're going to get scissors and you're going to put poor citizens in the bank where you cut their ribbon, and you're going to find us, my friends. The people you put away for sending their children to the schools you opened with applause will stand before you tomorrow, and they will find us with them. Isn't that weird? As the Republican People's Party, we have given a lifetime as social Democrats to fight the fight, a lifetime; you've been fighting for three days. We've given a lifetime to fight Fetoshists. Now that the day has come, you've broken the law and that cantar is weighing the people. You messed up that cantar together. You've upset the balance of justice, and now he's weighing those who can't deliver justice, and it's strange to say to you, again, brother, what a strange twist of history this is when you take in guns or pencils and encourage people who pay for a coup or encourage a coup out of pocket, but in every law that you do to others, you'll find us. We're giving you a lifetime to fight the state, and now you're no different from the organization, if you don't stay in law, because you judge the people who believe in them unjustly, unjustly, because you've destroyed them. Either way, you'll be in justice. We have to say it. In the same way, we feel responsible for defending Recep Erdoğan's right, even though we don't like his ideas. We'll feel the same responsibility for you, don't worry. You've joined hands with Å, and you've broken the tune of this cantar in your time. I hope this cantar will weigh you after it's fixed. It's not too late for that. We can put our hands together and balance justice. Oh, if you say no, then you'll be weighed by the mess you've broken. For this reason, we walked for twenty-five days, saying twenty-five days, right, right, right, right, right. At first you said: "How many people go after them?" You said: "How many people go after them?" Hundreds of thousands set foot on that march, but it's an hour, but it's 25 days. Hundreds of thousands set foot in that march; none of them took money in their pockets, nor any of them made any promises. What we'll find is, we're the opposition party. And believe me, more than 90 percent of the people who came there didn't have personal injustice, and they were only there to protect the rights, the laws of the people who were judged unfairly because of you. And we came to our rally, and so many people shouted, "right, law, justice," which, of course, frightened you and those who thought the way you did, especially the President. Two million people can fit in Maltepe Square with their own mouth, and we've built such squares." "When the President filled it with Republican People's Party, there were 170,000 people." he said. Yeah, you feel a little weight, you're the President, you feel a little weight, you get a little quiet sometimes, but the more you talk, of course, the more you talk, of course, of course, of their own deficiencies. 25 people have committed suicide because of your unlawful conduct. Look, the same illegalities happened during Ergenekon and Sledgehammer. You were prosecutors of those cases back then. I'm sorry, we made a mistake." You said. I mean, now that it's been so short time, you've been in the D.A.'s office for these cases as if you've never learned. Tomorrow, all these people will shoot you, believe me. We must establish justice together when the road is near. That's why I've been struggling with every strand of my beard for a whole year, and I've been saying that everywhere I go, I've been fighting every string every day, and I hope this fight won't take too long. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0059par0105	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Ankara MP Mr. Fatih Şahin will speak. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0060par0109	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the Prime Minister's thesis that the state of emergency should be extended for another three months. I salute you all. Today (July 17th, 2017) was a year after the Fetullahcı terrorist organization attempted a traitorous coup on July 15th. That night, terrorists who had infiltrated the Turkish Armed Forces of the Fetullahist terrorist organization, the prophet's stove, took the honorable uniform of the Turkish Armed Forces and soiled it with our nation's taxes, aimed at tanks, rifles, planes, helicopters, bullets, our beloved nation, attempted a coup, not just a coup attempt, but a coup attempt that happened that night at the same time. What happened that night was also an attempt to colonize our country. What happened that night was an attempt to divide our government, to tear our nation apart. This was the last Crusade of the fetullahist mankurts used as a pawn, but on that dark night, the first president, our Commander-in-Chief on July 15th, was enlightened on the morning of July 16th by the call of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and by the decisive position of our Speaker of Parliament and the presence of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, with the strength and courage of our beloved Prime Minister Bülli Yıldırım. That night, every sect, every profession, every political view, every view of the world, every way of life, every region, the heart of the patriot beat and beat together. We repelled the Turkish, the Kurdish, the Lazkek, the Roman, the Alevi, the Sunni, the eastern, the western, the northern, the southern, and the night of the coup attempt that night. It was as though it had happened that night in 1071, and that night it was almost May 29, 1453, and that night it was the victory of Çanakkale, and it was Kutülamare, and it was the Battle of Salvation. That night, every member of our beloved nation became Ulubatlı Hasan, Seyit became Corporal, Nene became Hatun, Kara Fatma, and prevented the Fetullahist terrorist group from trying to contaminate the land. They got the answer. Traitors, invaders, coupgers, separatists, colonists, Crusaders, once again, have received powerful answers, as has been for a thousand years. On this occasion, I ask the grace of the Almighty God, whose position and rank are in favor of all 250 martyrs who have died in the resistance of July 15th, and all those who have taken forever in the defense of their homeland. I wish all of our veterans a good, healthy long life, and I wish those who continue to be treated with immediate healing. And those of our veterans who have emigrated to the eternal world, I ask the Lord God to grant me mercy. Yes, as we demonstrated a glorious resistance on July 15, 2016, in the year of July 15, 2017, in unity and unity, we performed activities throughout the dorms, 81 districts, 950 districts and abroad at many points. We remembered our martyrs, our veterans, and strengthened our unity and unity. I'd like to express our gratitude and gratitude once again under this roof, which is the epitome of national will for each and every member of our beloved nation, which is spreading in one week and bringing meaning to events that reached its peak on the night of July 15th. And to Nejmuddin Yilmaz, the teacher who was kidnapped and killed after being scanned by the PKK, I ask God's mercy. I curse once again the terror of all terrorist organizations and the PKK terror that martyred our saintly, young teacher. My condolences to his family, to our prosperous community, and to our beloved nation. Mr. President, the high-profile parliament of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which has been announced throughout the country, dated 21/7/2016, and is under the rule of 18/4/2017 and is currently in the hands of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, according to its decision 1139. First of all, I would like to point out that the extraordinary state has not only been implemented in the state of the Republic of Turkey, nor has it ever been applied by the state of the Republic of Turkey. The state of emergency was first implemented in our country in 1987 and has been extended over and over again. With our power, a state of emergency has been terminated in this land. Again, in 2004, some improvements aimed at limiting the rights and freedoms of persons were also carried out during the AK PARTI ruling period, particularly regarding measures that could be carried out in the 15th Article of the Constitution. This nation, this state, has come to this day by paying very high prices in the past. Our nation has moved the Republic of Turkey to this day by paying every price it has built in 1923, freeing its republic from all kinds of evil, and making it one of the most powerful, most assertive states of the 21st century, but unfortunately, the will and sovereignty of the nation has always been prevented by attempts to intervene, by attempts to invade, by attempts to take custody; the will of the nation has been reduced, democracy has been put on the shelf and often has been put on the shelf. We had the May 27 coup on this land, the March 12th contract, the September 12th coup, the postmodern coup on February 28th. Again, in our time of power, we faced different plans and plots and coup attempts. On April 27th, for the first time in this land, we saw the e-memory being answered by civilian will. On December 17-25, we saw a coup attempt against the elected government, especially by members of the Fetullahist terrorist organization who had been frozen inside the police and the judiciary. But this nation has always held on to its will, never giving the mortgages that were built on its sovereignty, never giving the shackles to be tied to its foot. On the night of July 15, 1960, 1971, 1980, 28 February, 27 April, 17 December, 25 December, he took the necessary lessons and made a heroic epic by living the memories of those painful events in his mind and heart. On the 15th of July, perhaps we saw and saw, together, the most bloody, vicious, treacherous coup attempt and occupation of this land, this geography, this history has ever seen. Our Ankara, our capital, has been our city with the bloodiest scenes of that bloody night because the coupters knew very well that if Ankara falls, Turkey will fall. But all the patriots in our eighty-one province, especially the Ankarans, have come up to the streets, the squares, and the fields to give the coupters the answer. Since it will not be possible for government administration to continue under the usual circumstances, the usual methods in this struggle would not be enough, so it has seen an extraordinary state of self-esteem, accepted by our nation that the practice of an extraordinary state in order to achieve faster, more effective, more useful results was necessary. The state of emergency is a constitutional and legitimate governance that is expressed in Articles 120 and 121 of the Constitution; it is a right, it is a duty, and it is a duty to the authorities. In view of all the sufferings this country has experienced, the state of emergency will not be declared now, it will not be implemented now, nor will the articles 120 and 121 of the Constitution be given now, and when will this be done? A very right and correct question is being raised. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the reasons for the state of emergency, especially in our country's geography, we see that there are many different kinds of chaos, crisis and civil wars, and the region is being tried to reshape. We see a great deal of suffering, suffering, suffering around Turkey, which has been raised as an island of stability in the region. As 80 million people living in the Republic of Turkey, our responsibility is not just to our borders. We've seen all the oppressed, all the victims, all the mustafs, all the inventors, staring at Turkey, and their hopes and hopes and hopes for a powerful, high light that will rise from here. All these events around our country, all these terrorist incidents, all these international developments, the continuity of the state of emergency. Beyond that, the practice of the extraordinary state regime, which will contribute to the destruction of the collective by adding to the fight against terrorist organizations nesting within our country, is a separate necessity. No country in the world has ever fought such a different and diverse terrorist organization. The PKK, on the one hand the DAİŞ, on the other the Fetullahist terrorist organization, on the other the DHKP-C, has surrounded our country like a scorpion. All of these terrorist organizations have different arms of the terrorist octopus, meaning different arms. As a terrorist octopus, Turkey strives to squeeze, yoke, and swallow our ▪. The goal of all and the focus of which they are directed is one. With all of these terrorist organizations, no matter what ethnic merits, no matter what separatist behaviors, as the state of the Republic of Turkey, we have shown a principled, correct and upright stance, and we will continue to display it. We will continue our struggle in this manner, as we have now. I think it's very important that once again the extraordinary state, which exists in our Constitution, which we see in our Constitution as different and valid in terms of the total elimination of the present danger, once again extends its legitimacy on concrete grounds, in terms of our country's struggle with terrorism. Honourable MPs, we are taking decisive and successful steps to fight the PKK. Terrorist organizations are killing civilians with their lives as they're cornered, assassinating politicians, but they'll never succeed. I want to address the souls of Aydın Müştü, Deryan Aktert, Ahmet Budak, Orhan Coral, and our Vice President of Van Özalp County, who was recently martyred by PKK terror organization, Aydın Ahi. Yesterday, I would like to say that we found the cry of the President of the Tunceli CHP, who cried out for the pain of our teacher who was killed in Tunceli. I would also like to share with you that the political institution must fight as a whole in the face of attacks on the political institution and must take a firm stand. I'd like to share with you here that those who say nothing to terrorist organizations, keep their distance, will never be forgiven in front of people and history. Those who can't say, "The DEA is a terrorist organization." Those who can't say, "They're supporters of those organizations," they're as responsible as those terrorist organizations, but let everyone know that those who put their backs to terrorist organizations will get the answer from our nation. The implementation of the State of Emergency provides the opportunity to fight terrorism, terrorist quickly. Our citizen has never, ever had a limiting effect on his daily life and rights. A year of experience that we've left behind has shown us that. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as it is known, the state of emergency is one of the rules of governance in almost every democratic country in the world, and it is stated in the constitutions under which conditions to apply. In our Constitution, it was included in Articles 120 and 121. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at this point, I'd like to share with you the necessity and necessity of continuing the fight against terrorism and terrorists and extending the state of emergency once again for three months so that it doesn't be interrupted. Honourable lawmakers, we've been meeting with the families of our martyrs, our veterans, on the occasion of events marking July 15th over the past week. First, I'd like to say that the statement of the controlled coup, which has been expressed by members of the Fetullahist terrorist organization, specifically by its extensions abroad, has hurt all of our saints and especially our fallen families, our veterans. I believe that the spirit of our martyrs suffers from the slander of this controlled coup. Moreover, the accusation of this controlled coup is a great accusation, a great slander, to be spoken under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It is a great insult to our beloved nation that this defamation of the controlled coup of the research commission, established under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, has no other purpose but to deny our martyrs and veterans, to cover, cut, and block their connection to July 15th. If terrorist leader Fetullah Gulen had made a speech here during the July 15th special session, he would have no doubt made the same speech as the president of the main opposition party. I'd like to rephrase the suffering of our beloved nation here once again. The Fetullahist terrorist organization has emerged in the 1960s and has been organized within the state for fifty-six years. Not only did he grow up in the right power era, but he also grew up in the left power era. The Republican People's Party, which has been a ruling partner in various times, has not taken any steps to combat it, and I'd like to put aside their struggles from hair to hair. Our MP just said I'm fighting every fiber of my beard. We're running with our lives, our blood, our people, our nation, we're not talking about a hair fight. (EA/DG) The power that first and only reveals the will to fight this Fetullahist terrorist organization was the AK PARTI's power. Our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan was the first President to fight the fetullahist terrorist organization. Yesterday, it can be discussed, it can be discussed, but the important thing is who's with who today, who's with who, who's with who. We know very well who called the coupst terrorists "the lambs." We know very well who went to the broadcast organs at the headquarters of the Fetullahist terrorist organization and cried. We know very well who's meeting with the heads of the Fetullahçı terrorist organization in Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0061par0132	I assume you'll be able to complete it. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0060par0134	On this occasion, I once again share with you the idea that our determination to fight terrorism is a need and necessity to extend our extraordinary state of will for another three months, and I salute you and the precious representatives of our beloved nation.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0061par0136	Thank you, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0062par0137	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0061par0138	Mr. Sky, I'm listening.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0062par0139	Sir, Mr. Hawk has also made strong statements and accusations to our president during his speech. I need to give them an answer.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0061par0140	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0063par0142	What did Mr. Gök say, which one does he criticize? Is that what she's calling him? Why would he answer?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0062par0145	Mr. President, we've heard an extremely unfortunate and inappropriate speech from the esteemed MPs, Mr. Falcon.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0064par0146	You guys always talk so good.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0062par0147	Of course, Mr. Sahin is referring to our President as saying that if he spoke, he would speak as the leader of the main opposition party. You probably know what Fetullah Gulen will say, but I don't know what Fetullah Gülan is talking about -- are you following the cases, the statements of Fetullah Gulen, Mr. Hawk and AK PARTI executives, and Mr. Minister: Fetullah Gülen, especially Kemal Kılıçdaroglu, don't deliver the Republican People's Party and the People's Party to power. Whatever you do, stop them. He says, "Fatih Hawk." I mean, as members of a party that's been telling the truth about Fetullah Gulen all her life, we're really in this situation...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0065par0149	What did Birgül Ayman Güler say, Birgül Ayman Güler?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0066par0150	Cognitive combat, consultative.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0067par0151	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0068par0152	We welcome you, my dear friends. I wish you'd listened to all the talks of the Republican People's Party, all the claims of that day, so that there would not have been bombs on our House that day, not 250 martyrs. You're responsible for all of this. The Republican People's Party told you, you didn't listen; the Republican People's Party told you, you went to the house of Fetullah Gulen, you kneeled in Pennsylvania.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0069par0154	Is that why you visited Fetollah on December 17th and 25th, went to America?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0068par0155	The Republican People's Party has told us, like the President of the coup commission's claims that it has now been released on television, all executives of the AKP PARTY are members of the service movement. My dear friends, you must first decide what you are, choose your opponent and those who will be a party to the fight against the enemy. Since you can't do that, you're still sinking and making incredible allegations. We reject all of these claims, and we are a party that has chosen to fight the fight.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0070par0157	Let's see it in action, let's see it in action.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0071par0158	You walked arm in arm yesterday. Come on. You walked arm in arm yesterday.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0068par0159	Whether you see this fact or not, we're like this, but since you can't see it, you've brought a blow to our government. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And you're responsible for that.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0072par0163	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Members of parliament, the group talks on the Prime Minister's Proclamation (3/1167) have ended. We will now hear the talks on behalf of the same thesis. Ankara MP Mr. Levent Gök will speak for him first. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time has been ten minutes, Mr. Sky, please.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0073par0172	Mr. President, I would like to express my opinion on the extraordinary statement of the state, which has been brought before us with the promise of immediate removal, but has been extended again a year later. I salute you all with love. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish the state had its mind in its right place and the state's mind could go beyond any resentment, any resentment; I wish the state's mind would not repeat what it said the next day itself. Turkey suffered a trauma on the night of the July 15 coup attempt, and when we were informed that the Parliament Speaker had also opened the Assembly General Assembly, we came here immediately, along with Mr. Nurettin Canikli and many of our friends here that day, while we were shielding our chests under the bombs, Mr. Speaker came and greeted us from the stand and hugged us, and kissed us from our cheeks, and kissed us until morning, the AK PARTI MPs kissed us. Well, we were fine that day, my dear friends. The next day, in an unpredictable coup attempt, the Republican People's Party held their chests up, put their lives on the line, all excited when our families dropped bombs from television to Parliament, their fathers, their children inside the House. Well, couldn't we all have died that day? We'd die, we'd die, you'd die. If the coup had succeeded, what would have been the fate of all of us? It would be for us what it is for you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0074par0174	Nah, they'd be fine.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0073par0175	We were fine that day, my dear friends, we were fine that day, everything was fine that day. Mr. Canikli, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, we're all taking on the responsibility of an important politician on a historic day. My dear friends, anything is possible in politics, but ingratitude is impossible, and we won't be ungrateful once we all know what each other's doing. If we weren't here under the bombs, maybe you could've told us something, but we covered our chests that day. Is it true? Right. We won't be ungrateful, my dear friends, we won't shoot each other in the back. Right behind him, a parliamentary democracy was read the statement that all parties attended the next day in this House. Well, then five days later, we were in a state of emergency. We said, "Don't do it, don't do it." Whatever it takes, we're prepared to give you all the support we need. The coup was averted. They said: "We need the state of emergency." Who said that? Deputy Prime Minister Numan Kurtli said: "Don't worry, we'll conclude the state of emergency in forty-forty five days. My dear friends said, forty-five days, the situation is dire. He became extraordinary, the Minister of Justice came out of this chair, and said: "We ask only three months of your time. Mr. Canikli, for three months. More than three months ago, we will conclude in a short period of time. Perhaps it would be reasonable because of the nature of the incident, but the second article of our Constitution speaks of the principle of the state of law, legal predictability. A Deputy Prime Minister gets up for five days, says the Minister of Justice gets up, says three months, convinces the community like this, and then he'll come back in a row, and he'll give them more and more. My dear friends, is this in line with the state mind? You've come across a painting that you can't predict, you don't say it at first, then you go around the back and say, "The danger we're facing is great, we haven't broken it yet." It's been a year. If you haven't figured it out in a year on a government device, there's a really bad picture, my dear friends, and there's a terrible painting. Now, there's been an explanation for Mr. Canikli in such an environment that in the past few months no one has felt his extraordinary state, Mr. Canikli says. Mr. Canikli, you may not have felt it, but look, every organization in the world -- the United Nations, the European Union... the Progress Report of Turkey -- there is a decline in almost every area after the announcement of the state of emergency in Turkey. What do you say to that? I mean, come on, our citizen doesn't feel it, you don't feel it, so, everybody feels it, the whole world feels it. Turkey is being reduced to the non-free country category, with the Council of Europe warning of violations. Again, Journalists Without Borders say that, unlike the President, more than 100 media members have been held in prison in Turkey. The Council of Europe says Turkey may fall in the democratic league. Again, journalists in Turkey who have no borders live in the climate of fear. The Council of Europe says Turkey is drifting to autocracy. That's what people do, my dear friends. Is there anyone left in Turkey who isn't afraid, who isn't intimidated, for God's sake? This is no way to fight the fight, my dear friends. Since the beginning of the fight with ا, when you stand on these platforms, when you answer to us with insults, it is in solidarity with the parties that fight them, with the civil society. We have shouted from this bench, and fight with the AKP speakers. They say that Fetollah Gülen is a good man, and you slander him. We said that Fetullah Gülen is a gang. They said that the AKP spokesmen stood up to us and said, "Where do you get it from?" Fetullah Gülen is not a gang; he is a good man who serves the world and Turkey. A AKP spokesman stood up and said: "The AKP is behind the decision that saved Fetullah Gülen. Let me tell you one of them. The AKP people who went running to Pennsylvania, the AKP people who were taking orders from him, the AKP people who were acting on his instructions, the people who opened the bank with the person in Pennsylvania, the people who opened the schools, the mayors who named their wives for the schools, the mayors who sold parcels... have you done this reckoning yet, my dear friends? You're going the wrong way, you're going the wrong way. Look, now, a commission has been set up to examine the victims of a state of emergency. We've made a calculation, my dear friends, that this commission will give each person seven minutes. There will be an application for a victim, which can only take seven minutes. Well, a painting like this isn't a good painting, it's not a healthy picture, my dear friends. You are not aware of the sacrifices created. The victims created are so big and heavy that there's a deep trauma to society. I know that a lot of my AK PARTY friends have suffered from these issues, too, so I know that they've been delivered to them. Now, preventing them would be in democracy, within the framework of human rights. When the victims expand, the struggle with this, the well itself finds a base, and there may be more grave dangers, my dear friends. If anyone thinks they've been wronged, he can find himself in unexpected situations to react to injustice. Don't do these things, avoid them, we're justifying them. Whoever did the coup, let's ask the 250 martyrs, whoever dropped bombs, whoever hurt our gas over 2,000, all of them. If we don't do this, we won't be the government anyway. But my dear friends, let Turkey not discuss the coups again. Look at this picture we've fallen into. We even broke up on July 15th. Is this the way to fight? Now he's snickering from his seat. The Speaker sends an invitation one day, the political party leaders will speak to us on the phone. We'll talk to our Speaker for ten minutes. He says, "Let's walk together in the rain from the nation." He says to the Speaker, "We won't be in that rain, let's go with us, but it won't hurt you." I say, "We agree, invitations are coming." So, what's going on? When Kemal Kilicdaroğlu's speech comes out, we see that a state mind collapses, that we come from a state to an understanding of tribal state. We're changing the invitation later, the presidents don't talk. What if our presidents are talking? Why are you bothering me? We were supposed to be together on July 15th, so why did you break it up? Is Turkey 80 million or 50 million? My dear friends, let's make a decision first. Oh, and let's just say, Mr. Canikli, I'm looking for an answer. Look, on July 15th, when he saw the people sitting in the hall of honor in the protocol at TBM, an AK PARTY MP wrote an article today. I'm reading it, and I'm waiting for an answer. It says: "The zevat, who was not in the square on the night of July 15th, is at the top of the protocol. It pains me to see that someone, who is a muhibi and a supporter, is sitting on the front lines of protocol in front of our people just because of their old state duties. One AK PARTI MP says so, my dear friends. My dear friends, who are they? Who's not? Who's not? My dear friends... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Wait a minute, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0075par0185	Please complete in one minute, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0073par0186	And it hurts me, my dear friends, to hear an AK PARTY MP say that there are people involved in the protocol at the July 15th memorial service. I don't know if it hurts you, too. I think it needs to hurt, it needs to be discussed, it needs to be discussed. I think Mr. Canikli will make a statement as to who these people are. How did the people get to the top of the protocol, and we're waiting for the political explanation, my dear friends? We're struggling with, saying, "Woe to you, dear friends, if you've been able to put the people in front of protocol in a year's time by declaring a state of emergency." I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0075par0189	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Now, in the name of the government...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0076par0191	Mr. President, the AKP speaker has just made a statement about my beard, and I'd like a word for two minutes.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0077par0192	What did Hajji say to his beard?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0078par0193	Mr. Levent has made a promise about the bullying, sir.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0079par0194	I know, Mr. Sky, about this matter...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0080par0195	I made a promise to our president that I wouldn't be the one with the beard, so we waited for the friend.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0081par0196	No, he didn't say anything to the beard, sir, he didn't say anything to the beard.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0079par0197	I won't shave my beard until you're done with the State of Emergency. You said, "This is no way to fight him." I don't see any bullying here, Mr. Pitcher.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0082par0198	Sir, it's teasing and he doesn't understand why I left my beard. Maybe, maybe he doesn't understand, but I left my beard to perform a state of emergency...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0079par0199	Yes, you said that.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0082par0200	...but they've turned it into a struggle, they've twisted my words and it's a taunt. I'd like to sum it up in two minutes.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0083par0201	Mr. President didn't say anything about a beard.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0084par0202	He picked on me, Mr. President, if you will.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0085par0203	If you'll excuse me, I'm talking to Mr. Horseman. Mr. Horseman, I give you my word on your position, make this statement.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0086par0205	Okay.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0085par0206	Here, just a minute.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0086par0209	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, as they say, he understood a sentence I said, and he misunderstood it. If only they'd answered my criticism. I said that I would not shave my beard during the state of emergency, and that I reacted to those who declared the state of emergency, and to those who extended it, that I was protesting, that I fought with every fiber of my beard. Oh, they say they gave their blood and their lives in the fight against Fetullah Gulen. In my speech, I made it very clear that this is not something that happens to a person, to a group, to a party, but the blood that flows there is not the blood of the AKP people. The struggle there is not the blood of any member of any group. It's been a total struggle. Everyone should respect this struggle. When they look at my beard, they're ashamed. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0087par0212	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Now Deputy Prime Minister Nurettin Canikli will speak for the government. Your time is 20 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0088par0220	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Yes, the State of Emergency was implemented on July 20, 2016, and we are again facing the Supreme Assembly, demanding that it be extended again for three months. Now, of course, of course, the issue of the State of Emergency is discussed, discussed, evaluated, and so it should be, that's the truth. But maybe there's some sort of non-profit assessment of the State of Emergency and its execution from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time. I mean, maybe, but our job is to get these missing information complete... what we're trying to do, what we're trying to do, what we're doing as a government, what are the grounds for the extension of the State of Emergency, and for what purpose, with what precision, with what reason, with what reason, and the struggle, I'm going to try to provide them with as much detail as possible. Until today... of course, the State of Emergency was put into practice immediately after July 15th attempted treason. When we try to visualize that painting in Turkey after July 15th, we find that it's really very dark, very severe, the picture, the chain of events, and the goal, the goals. First of all, the attempt on July 15th is essentially a global scale project. They're all pawns and pawns, including the one who was involved in the realisation of that project. It's a very large project on a global scale, and it's actually the continuation of projects that have been tried to be implemented in the last few years, the larger dimension, the stronger one; that's what it's supposed to be. The main goal is a global scale project aimed at eliminating sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity of the Republic of Turkey. Just after July 15th, Turkey became a complete firehouse. Literally, general order, general security are now in great danger of eliminating Turkey. A very serious negative picture has appeared at the point of maintaining order and order, including the safety of the entire community. The State of Emergency has been declared in such an environment and has been applied to the State of Emergency in such an environment. The State of Emergency is, of course, a constitutional institution, which needs to be underlined. So the State of Emergency mechanism is not an unconstitutional, illegal order, a system, an application; it is a constitutional practice that is allowed to be declared when certain conditions are established in the Constitution. In such an environment, it is perfectly natural, necessary, and necessary to declare a state of emergency; all conditions have been created, overgrown, after July 15th. Basically, look, yeah, right, so far, there's been an OHL application in about a year or so, and so far there's not a single person who's been limited to the use of basic rights and freedoms, who's been suspended, who's been suspended. Because of the State of Emergency application, no one has ever experienced a negative influence in this sense.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0089par0225	The strike is being blocked.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0088par0226	Look, there's a State of Emergency Act that's been enforced since 1983. As a matter of fact, the state of emergency is an amazing arrangement that gives the government the ability to suspend, suspend, limit basic rights and freedoms. Look, your state of emergency... And let's just say that there's a huge difference between the E.R.O.L., which was lifted when the A.K.P.R. government came to power, and the State of Emergency, which has been carried out in the last year. In order to understand this better, I would like to share with you in a few sentences how the State of Emergency Law, Number 2935, authorized by the State of Emergency Law, which is important. In the event of a state of emergency in this framework, the government may limit or ban the curfew. The government, newspapers, magazines, brochures, books, hand and wall ads and so on, printing, copying, publishing, and distribution, prohibiting them from being taken out of the state zone -- if it is declared a region -- to enter, etcetera, etcetera, if necessary -- to collect them, collect them. The word can control, register, limit, or ban writing, image, film, record, sound and video tapes and all kinds of literature if necessary. He can take special protection measures to ensure their own internal security, and he can ask for more of them to be increased. He can control, stop, and forbid any kind of stage plays and movies that are shown. He can ban meetings and demonstration walks in closed and open places, delay them, delay them, or schedule meetings and demonstration walks, determine the time and placement of meetings and demonstration walks, monitor all the meetings he has assigned to him, keep watch, distribute them, if necessary. The worker's wishes, moral and good intentions, which do not comply with the rules of health, health reasons, the end of his regular pension, and the end of his fixed term, may also consider whether the service contract should be terminated or if the employer should be released from the process of dissolution. Like this, association activities can be halted by making separate decisions about each association and not over three months. So far, in one year's time of practice, none of these powers have been used by the State of Emergency Law, none of them. In this way, it's not a classic state of emergency. Therefore, the government has declared to itself the extraordinary state of the Prime Minister and other of our friends. This is how the sentence makes sense, and that is how the judgment is expressed. Because the extraordinary state, in fact, has been used, applied, implemented, in the past, because it allows for narrowing down these freedom zones, limiting the basic rights and freedoms that people use, but there has been no limiting, any of them at this time. Therefore, we can say freely, that no one felt that way about the State of Emergency. There has never been a preferential, preferential treatment for anyone due to those qualities, not as a way of life, nor as a way of thinking; there has been no narrowing, blocking, limiting. There's not a single example that suggests otherwise. In the framework of general practices, there are some regulations, decisions, rules that have been implemented before the State of Emergency, there are decisions, applications made in that framework, but other than that, especially in the last year, from the time of the State of Emergency announcement, there has been no narrowing regulation in this sense. Look, this decision was made during a period when Turkey returned to its place of fire. It's always said, two bombs went off in France, two years or so, and it goes on until November. Two bombs, that's all. I mean, I don't mean to be condescending, but compared to the threat Turkey faces, obviously there are enormous differences between them. At the time, Turkey is now fighting three of the world's bloodiest terrorist organizations, its supporters, fighting against them, not just with the divider terrorist group, but with the DEASH. The DEA has caused the biggest damage to Turkey, Turkey has led the biggest attack, which is very clear with the numbers, and it's still a struggle. Thus, it was necessary to declare the state of emergency, and now the struggle is not over because the attacks continue, still fighting both inside and outside these terrorist organizations, three of the bloodiest terrorist organizations in the world. Therefore, there is no hesitation in the formation of the conditions of the state of emergency. In a moment, I'll try to present the grounds and conditions for its extension. So, until today, what's the arrangement that we've made, I mean, what's the use of this State of Emergency ad? In particular, what opportunity did he provide in dealing with terrorist organisations, especially in the region? Was it abused as alleged, or did it really contribute to the creation of the effective and rapid management opportunity needed to eliminate these attacks? Let's see what we've done with these arrangements so far. So far, 26 OPECs have been issued and implemented within the scope of the State of Emergency. About five of them were adopted and passed by Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Now, look, there's been a coup attempt. In a real sense, if Turkey is not interfered within a very short period of time, if the right decisions are not made, if the necessary intervention is not done on time after our nation's initial intervention, and there is no effective application of the terrorist organization, the people involved with the initiative, if it is not done very quickly, the selfless heroism, the heroism that our nation has set out to be shown, and the price paid for it will be in vain. Very quickly, the connections of those responsible for it and the subcontractor who carried it out must be removed in a very short time. Why? Because really, it's a very powerful decision-making and implementation mechanism that has been built up to all the capillaries of society, especially the public. So, with his judgment, with his safety, with his university, with all of his units, he didn't go into these areas that were never predicted. He didn't care much about these areas. An organization, including the areas we call the areas, in public and in private, has to be determined very quickly, and financial resources need to be drained. Look, so far, about 111 thousand people have been expelled from the public in this framework. So more than 11,000 people have been expelled from the public, mainly because they have been identified with the terrorist organization and other terrorist organisations. In the first months, even in the first weeks, the key weight was carried out in the draft laws issued at the time. This structure had to be disbanded and eliminated in no time. Otherwise, there was a situation and a danger that all that fighting was going to go to waste. It was virtually impossible for this struggle to be carried out effectively, quickly, by conventional methods given to us by existing laws. Look, think about it, you have to run a very serious process in order to get the people involved in the coup attempt to get the people who are in contact with them out of the public. You need to run the personnel regimes of the relevant institutions, the military staff regime or the employee regime of State Officers Act 657 for other officers. Especially, like, this many... because we know how wide the organization's spread. It is virtually impossible for them to avoid becoming dangerous by conducting such a process, and the legislation is not available. First, the creation of the law, the shortening of the process, needs to be made more effective. So he gave us exactly what we wanted, the State of Emergency ad, and the laws issued on the basis of that. As a first step, a law was created in order for these exports to be completed very quickly. Before this arrangement, a verb with a crime on its subject could only be identified when a crime related to the organisation was detected and a crime committed according to our Turkish penal code could only be processed when it was discovered, and it could be exported. So if there is no organization membership, aiding and abetting the organisation, or anything like this, which is also a crime, if it can't be detected, then there's absolutely no way that they can be discharged from the public, or that there's no way that the institutions that have been identified as connected with them, the companies that provide financial support, have been shut down. Look, you know he's connected, you see, you have a definite decision in that way, but since you can't prove he's a member of the organization, if this arrangement hadn't been made, if these arrangements hadn't been made, they wouldn't have been able to be expelled from the public in any way. So the first arrangement we made was the creation of law in relation to this. Apart from the verbs of crime, which require punishment, in terms of the state, it is the government's most basic right to remove all employees from the state's hierarchy, not from the state's structure, but from other places, which violates the state's code of loyalty, and to ask for it. The first example, a similar example, is that when the two Germanys merged, they exported more than 500,000 public employees, especially the public employee who worked in the East German staff, and ended the entire civil service affair in one day; the issue was referred to the ECHR; and the ECHM is here to be unfaithful to the state, and the state can make a decision about it. He said and confirmed the process. 500,000 public servants in one day... There are other examples, but this is one of the most interesting. Thus, the legal infrastructure needed for this effective struggle was first implemented by the KHK. What is this? Even if it wasn't a crime, the provision that opened the way for the expulsion of all public employees with ties and ties to terrorist organisations was first carried out by the KHK. So, those with ties and connections to terrorist organizations, those who have been identified have been expelled from the public without any further action. Had it not been for this arrangement, today the organisation would still be in a position to make effective public decisions with all its staff. I'll be right back with the details. It was well-known that there were members of this organization, more or less, in all elements of the public. In the same way, look what we've done with these KHKs, the possibilities of the state of emergency. This is one, we've created law, so it can be wiped clean. And the criminalization of the organization, which, according to very important and valid legislation, is both by universal legislation and by our internal laws, without criminalization, you can't charge anyone with such a charge until the conditions of terrorism are found, the rule of law requires this. I mean, think about it, a structure... There are also today, there are NGOs in Turkey and in the world. They're not... And before a certain date -- today's terrorist organization was a very similar structure -- ten years ago -- for example, five years ago -- you can't charge a person with violence, without the signs, without the organization's criminalization, without being identified in a legal format. You can't charge a person with violence. Can you? You can't. Therefore, the first acts that pave the way for this structure to be described as an organisation are the first cases of 17-25. There are signs before that, but here's where it's at. But, even here, after all this, there's been a very serious...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0090par0238	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you one more minute, please complete.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0088par0239	However, the terrorist organization was adopted after the signs appeared, and again, the terrorist organisation was adopted within the framework of legal standards and criteria. Now, the point to be discussed here is that once the terrorist organization is officially identified as a terrorist organization, the relations with this organization after it has been legally established, that's something else, but before that, relationships in a time when it's not yet possible to be defined by another name beyond the NGO are something else; two are very different, one is definitely supporting the terrorist organization. After it's been identified as a terrorist organization, if there are relationships after that -- no one, person or organization -- then relations after that are a support and support relationship to a terrorist organization, and it's also a crime. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So there's a huge difference between the two dates and the different assessments or the approach. Mr. President, a few more minutes, I'll give you a few numbers. Of course, now we can't move on to the... but if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0091par0244	Mr. President, two more minutes...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0092par0245	Well, I'll give you two minutes, because 60 minutes have been discussed against you. Go ahead and finish it.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0093par0247	Thank you, Mr. President. A number of decisions have been made to facilitate this struggle -- so I'm not going to go into these, of course, details right now -- and as a result -- I would like to share those numbers from the terrorist organization -- with you today -- 111,240 people have been exported. The total number of public employees is 3,530,31. Now that they're talking about it, there's allegations in some business, there's victims. First of all, there's absolutely no harm done, absolutely no harm done. Look, it's also known that we can't prove with evidence, but we know that you are a public employee who is more dependent on this organization than on the public today, who is connected with this organization, and who has submitted his heart, soul and mind to it without question to follow its instructions. Well, why don't you just process it? It's a very good question. In doing so, some criteria have been set when exporting from the public. The criteria for objective, net, mathematical certainty and clarity have been set. Other than that, no subjective factor has ever been used as a tool in exporting. So the rest of them -- look, all of those who have left their mark, all of those who have been put on these criteria -- were exported from the public -- a significant part of them -- from the top. Those who weren't exported left no trace. We know how powerful this aspect of the organization is, and we know how powerful it is in its ability to conceal itself, camouflage and remain crypto. Look, it's just been mentioned, about 7,400 people have been exported at the latest KHK. Most of this is crypto. None of the known criteria have been tripped, so those who haven't been studied in schools, who haven't been used by Lock -- there are some who have not been used -- and there are some who haven't been, but in other ways, in different ways, who have been determined to be connected to that organization continue to exist. 7,400 people. Even now, even after the publication of that decree,
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0092par0250	Mr. Secretary, since this is important, I'll give you one last two more minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0094par0252	Mr. President, is there such a thing as procedure?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0092par0253	I do. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0095par0255	These are 7,400 people who are described as cryptos, who are not obsessed with the classic criteria we know. We also know that there are members of a crypto organization that we don't know at the naming point, but we believe for certain, in the public and other organizations. So this battle is not over yet. In the same determination, the struggle needs to be continued, and for that, we need the use of these opportunities that the State of Emergency has given us to fight the terrorist organization completely. Look, there are 7,400 people who have been discharged under the last decree of law, there is no problem with them; all of them are people who have been determined to be connected to the organization. Now, if it weren't for these possibilities, their dismissal, 7,400 people, for those who were expelled in the last decree, published in the supplement, if it weren't for this opportunity, let alone this opportunity, we wouldn't have been able to conclude that struggle in a short time, maybe in a year, maybe two years, we wouldn't have been able to perform their public exports. So, it has to be moved very quickly, and all the elements of the terrorist organization need to be removed, whether it remains secret or not, and in order for that struggle to continue, the extraordinary state needs to be extended again. In the same way, look, in the framework of the draining of financial resources, they've also been registered as assets of over 4,000 associations, more than 4,000 foundations, over 40 years, and so on. So, if it weren't for these possibilities, their closure within the normal legal system, the transfer of assets to the treasury probably wouldn't have ended more than ten years ago, maybe 20 years later, so it wouldn't have been an effective fight against terrorism, terrorism. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, the conditions for the extension of the state of emergency are clear. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0096par0261	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Sky, I'm listening, please.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0097par0265	Sir, for the record, I've been promised two sentences, thank you. Mr. Canikli, speaking on behalf of the government, while fighting this terrorist organization, this terrorist organization, has to have some things that, you know, have to go over it. He said some words like that. I remind Mr. Canikli and the government that the National Security Council, which was assembled in 2004, has taken a decision to go over the matter, but then the government has ruled it out. In addition, Fetullah Gülen was acquitted of the cases he was tried in 2006 by a court of law. Mr. Canikli doesn't say that, you know, we need to know something. He says. The National Security Board told you in 2004. Why didn't you do what you had to do? Another matter, Mr. President: Mr. Canikli did not answer a question of mine. I read a column by an AK PARTY MP today. On July 15th, that AK PARTI MP wrote today that he was dying to see the members of the protocol. In order to declare the state of emergency, Mr. Canikli, convince the AK PARTY MP first.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0098par0268	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0097par0269	If you're struggling, what are those people doing in honor protocol? Who were they, who were they? You're talking nonsense.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0098par0271	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0099par0272	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0100par0273	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0098par0274	Are you going to answer? However, Mr. Canikli made a statement in the form of the law. You know, there's a principle of personality to punishments. So I don't think that making a decision in that sense on the National Security Council would result in a trial being launched, and I'm a lawyer. That's what I wanted to say.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0101par0275	The decision of the National Security Council is administrative, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0100par0276	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0098par0277	Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0102par0279	Thank you, Mr. President. The content of this decision has nothing to do with what we're talking about. I mean, there's a decision there that's been made for a very different purpose. Besides, we have to...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0103par0281	That decision was made to fight the fight.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0102par0282	Yeah. Because look, there was a study of people who were particularly conservative, and we all know that.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0103par0283	On its name, Mr. Secretary, it says Fetullah Gulen.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0102par0284	And so everyone knows that this kind of work was done under that cover, it's no secret. I mean, especially in the Turkish Armed Forces at the time...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0103par0285	So you ignored that decision.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0102par0286	...we know that special work has been done at the point where people with religious sensibilities -- including before, of course -- are being cleaned up. So it's not about him, it's not about him; it's not about the fight against the Fetullahist terrorist organization or the purpose of it, it's just that there are people there who are conservative...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0103par0287	It's a name, Mr. Canikli. It's a name.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0104par0288	Dear Sky, please...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0102par0289	So this has nothing to do with what we're talking about right now. Look, the terror organization's particularly violent side emerged on July 15th. Earlier, the direction of organization was revealed, the definition of the terrorist organization reached the stage where violence occurred on July 15th. Any discussion, any hesitation, has come to light.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0104par0292	Complete, please, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0102par0293	Mr. President, what's important here is that after a moment where the slightest hesitation is no longer present, we must continue our fight against the terrorist organization with determination, everyone must continue. With some excuses, sir, you've done this before, it's like this... let them go, there's danger, there's a threat.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0105par0294	Why would we let him go? Are we lying?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0102par0295	He is a threat to the state of the Republic of Turkey. So, together, let's fight together in cooperation.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0106par0296	You've grown it, you've grown it, Mr. Canicli, you've grown it.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0105par0297	You held hands and destroyed Turkey.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0107par0298	Mr. Horseman, please...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0108par0299	So by blaming each other, you know, in the past, this has been done. It can't be fought.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0109par0300	You've grown, you've protected, you've protected, you've protected.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0107par0301	I'm listening, please.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0108par0302	We will not compromise this determination, no matter what anyone says, in the end, we will send the terrorist organization and all terrorist organizations to their rightful place.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0110par0304	We don't say, "Make concessions." We say, "Give account."
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0107par0305	Thank you, Mr. Canicli. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go. Your time is one minute.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0111par0309	Mr. President, I assume you'll give me more than a minute, because it's important, and I think he has an infinite right to talk, so...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0107par0310	You're explaining your position, I'll have to give you a minute according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0111par0311	I really think that some statements should be taken seriously first. For one thing, there can never be a definition of an exported member of an organization, because when they're tried, those people become members of the organization when their sentence is finalized? I suppose, before anyone else, this House needs to learn a law of innocence. Other than that, in Diyarbakır, those who were discharged with the latest Turkish Cypriots, members of KESK, are protesting and being taken into custody. I'd like to present this to the Council's information. You said that the State of Emergency had no effect on human life or on everyday life at all, but right now...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0107par0314	I'll give you one more minute, but I won't extend it, Mr. Kerestecioglu. Please...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0111par0315	...the 106 thousand public employees you mentioned were laid off with the KHK, and there is still no way for them to appeal. We still don't know how that commission works. How will this commission of seven reach all parts of Turkey? 30 publishing houses have been shut down, 86 mayors have been arrested, 178 media companies have been shut down, 2,308 people have been unemployed in media-reports, over 700 companies have been seized. They had tens of thousands of employees, Mr. Secretary. 778 press cards have been canceled, the yellow press cards they're looking for. So I wanted to remind you that these people are citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0107par0317	Thank you. Mr. Akkaya, you've made a request. Here, just a minute.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0112par0321	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Minister spoke very strongly in his speech, saying: "We have not made a single decision regarding basic rights and freedoms during the period of the State of Emergency." He said, "We are not far away, but on the 13 part of the month, while talking to foreign investors at TOBB, we are preventing strikes by using the State of Emergency." If it were not for the State of Emergency, employers would not have been able to work comfortably. He said on the 13th of the month. A second reminder to Mr. Minister: Gene, in the first months of this State of Emergency -- their first job -- despite the Constitutional Court's ruling, the transport and banking work force took the strike off the scope of the strike. Isn't it basic rights and freedom to ban the strike, which is the basic right of workers, when there's no strike in transport or banking? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0113par0325	Thank you, too. Hatay MP Haci Bayram Türkoğlu will speak for him in the second place.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0114par0330	Mr. President, may I answer the questions?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0113par0331	Let Turkoglu speak, I promise you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0115par0334	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the EC PARTI Group on behalf of the Prime Minister's thesis on extending the state-of-the-art state, which was announced throughout the country by the Grand National Assembly Resolution 1116 on July 21, 2016. I salute your high council with love. Yes, valuable lawmakers, today's unfortunate news is that 17 soldiers have been injured in Hakkari Yüksekova, due to the traitorous attack of the PKK terrorist organization. I pray to God for immediate healing for our wounded. Again, a few days ago -- of course, these terrorist attacks continue -- Nejmettin Hodja Hakkk of our national education community, drank his testimony and walked to Hakk, and we all saw him off. From here I send greetings to our Republican People's Party President, Ali Riza Bey. Indeed, in his speech regarding the Democracy and the National Union Memorial Program, he says: "What was the sin of this young body, this young person? On his way to visit his mother and father, he was martyred. Of course, after his emotional speech, a whole team burst into tears, and I salute him. Once again, I ask for God's mercy on our martyr. And I wish that this president's behavior would be an example to all of us, to all of the political parties, to the Republican People's Party, to the People's Democratic Party, and to all of our parties, and to all of humanity, to the Turkish people. Once again, I honor our martyr in your presence. Dear MPs, Turkey has experienced one of its most critical processes on July 15th, and members of the traitorous Turkish Armed Forces, nested in our country and our nation's very own Turkish Armed Forces, have broken out of the chain of command and have begun an invasion and coup attempt on our country. This attack, this Vandals mob attacking our people with their tanks, guns, planes, mercilessly, was driven out by the will and faith of our nation, which filled the fields on the call of our President, General Commander Recep Tayyip Erdogan. That night, 250 of our people were drinking the testimony sherbet and 2,193 of our people became veterans. The same day, you remember, the same night the Great National Assembly of Turkey was bombed. Around 2:30, me and my family -- including my wife and daughter -- were wounded by the first bomb fired and the helicopter's attack on the Turkish National Assembly, where we were shot to death, and I had the honor of becoming the Veteran MP and his family. (EC PARTY AND CHP APPLAUSE) We know that our veterans -- as long as they live -- are ruled as living martyrs. Once again, as we welcome our martyrs, I wish our veterans speedy healing and eternal happiness. On the 15th of July, our beloved nation wrote a unique epic. It's called the epic of heroism, the second epic of salvation, you might say. Of course, on July 15th, as he did in the struggle for salvation, as did our ancestors of the past, Dumlupınar, with the product of a new age of thinking that opened and closed in our country in 1453, the whole nation, all democratic mass organizations, the press, the media organizations, and all of them, who, as they did in the struggle for salvation again, have wiped out the entire nation's flock of Ankara, as he did in Çanakkale. Today, those traitors will answer to justice. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, valued MPs, the process is not an ordinary process, it's an extraordinary process. It is necessary to take extraordinary measures in the fight against this treacherous and low blow attempt that has not been found in the world. Therefore, the most important of these measures is no doubt the state of emergency. The state of emergency is not martial law, but a method that is applied only for the better functioning of democracy, for the purpose of activating members of the Fetullahist terrorist organization, regardless of which terrorist organization they belong, by eliminating them from the public. The state of emergency is a method that makes the fight effective, authoritarian, effective with terrorist organisations such as PKK, ISIS, DHKP-C, Marxist Leninist Communist Party, CHP, and with the speedy decision-making mechanism focused on results. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are a legal procedure in which situations such as civil war, riots, natural disasters, or epidemics -- which may eliminate the existence of the state and society -- which is held in Articles 120 and 121 of our Constitution. As a matter of fact, we have seen a lot of examples of this in democratic Western countries recently. In 2015, France declared a state of emergency after the attacks on Paris, which killed 130 people, and this State of Emergency was extended five times in France. On June 12, 2016, the state of Florida declared a state of emergency in Orange County as a result of a nightclub attack in Orlando. The attacks in Brussels have alerted Europe. The state of emergency has been declared unprecedented in European countries. All European countries, especially France, Germany and Britain, have raised their security measures to the highest level in fear of terrorism. Because of this reason, do not fight terror in a country. It means actually close the shop and leave. It means not fighting terrorism is the same as surrendering to terrorist organizations or allowing them to be tolerated. There is never a limitation at the point of fundamental rights and freedoms in the state of emergency, there is no such thing. We can't ignore it, it'll show the state government. The state must do whatever it takes to keep the state alive for the rest of its life, we are the garantists, our nation, all of us. With measures taken under the State of Emergency and an effective fight against terrorist organisations, it will be much more peaceful, secure, and a safe march into the bright tomorrows. We have to eradicate terrorist organizations such as the PKK, ISIS, as soon as possible, to get a result from which the government has been removed from the inside of the state. There is no state below our 1,200km limit, and terrorism such as YPG in Syria is a threat to us. I'd like to draw your attention to their presence. We have a responsibility to fight these structures. It is responsible for providing peace and prosperity for the nation of the state. We, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, would like to say that the nation's will is represented here, the nation's will is represented, and as the legislature, we have the responsibility to establish the necessary measures, the necessary legal infrastructure. That's why the government exists. In all these struggles, Turkey will be able to control its democracy, its economy, its legal system...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0116par0346	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0117par0347	Mr. President, this is our V.P.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0118par0348	Yes, sir, let's give it two minutes.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0116par0349	Complete, please. Yeah, he's our V.P. I'll give you an extra minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0119par0353	Thank you, Mr. President. That's why the government exists. In all these challenges, Turkey is trying to balance its democracy, its economy, its legal system, and it is extremely successful. When the need for our fight against terrorism is gone, of course we will end this practice. The cases began to take shape. We also gained considerable distance in fighting the PKK. So even though we apply it in a very limited area, it is possible that the extraordinary state will rise in a future that is not far away. The State of Emergency aims only to facilitate efforts to eliminate threats against democracy, the state of law, rights and freedoms, and is within the constitutional authority of the state. Dear President, members of lawmakers, with these feelings and thoughts, I respectfully salute you all to the approval of the Prime Minister's thesis on the three-month extension of the State of Emergency.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0120par0357	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. I wish you and your family well again. Mr. Secretary, you said you wanted to make a statement. Here, just a minute.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0121par0363	Thank you, Mr. President. The decision to postpone the Akbank strike has nothing to do with the State of Emergency regulations, its implementation. Because the Constitutional Court was there... you know, there was a strike ban on the banking sector, the Constitutional Court cancelled it, then gave it a deadline, and there was a legal arrangement in that framework. If it hadn't been for a state of emergency, this arrangement would still be under way. In the same way, it is especially important to have financial stability there.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0122par0365	That's not what the President says, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0121par0366	One of the most fragile sectors -- the state of emergency, or other times -- has been delayed by the Council of Ministers because the possibility that a strike would spread across the entire sector and cause a instability in the financial system is likely to result in it. So the State of Emergency didn't happen here in this example. I'm sorry to say, it didn't happen in this case.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0123par0367	Mr. Secretary, that's not a strike.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0124par0368	Mr. Akkaya, please...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0121par0369	Finally, very clearly...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0123par0370	Mr. Secretary, there is false information on the strike.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0124par0371	Mr. Akkaya, please, I beg you...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0123par0372	False information, false information.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0125par0373	And finally, let me say this...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0123par0374	No, it's not, sir, it's not, it's not.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0125par0375	The State of Emergency Commission has started accepting applications today, and there have been 1,826 applications, as of 15:00 p.m., which are applied through governorships. Now, effectively, quickly, the commission has begun its work, so let's say that this is it. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0126par0377	Thank you. Mr. Sky, you have a request. Are you going to explain your position?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0127par0379	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0126par0380	Just a minute, please.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0127par0382	So, actually, Mr. Secretary, before I speak, I've been waiting for a word because there's a question I'm looking for an answer to.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0126par0383	I'll give you my word in order. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0127par0385	Yeah, yeah. Thank you. In his speech, the minister said that no one felt the extraordinary state, that it was only declared against the state. Mr. Secretary, we love our government and we love you, so we don't want you to be ruled in an extraordinary manner, so I think it's best if you remove it if it's declared against you. But I'm going to say the name of one person -- there are many names, but -- who doesn't feel the state of emergency!) Why was Ibrahim Kaboğlu, the most respected professor of Turkey, expelled, Minister? What does Ibrahim Kaboğlu have to do with ▪? Can a respected professor such as Ibrahim Kaboglu be based on the reason for his expulsion?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0126par0387	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0128par0388	I'm going to give you this information, but I don't know right now. There's no information yet.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0126par0389	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0129par0390	Is Nuriya Gannon also Mr. Secretary? Is he also in the city?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0130par0391	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0126par0392	Mr. Akkaya, I gave you my word. We're not doing the QA right now. So I have to continue the process. Thank you. Congressmans, talks on the Prime Minister's thesis have been completed. Now I'm going to put the thesis to your votes.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0131par0401	We want roll call.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0126par0402	We've got a roll call. Mr. Gök, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Akkaya...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0132par0404	Mr. President, 20 people didn't get up, 20 people didn't. 20 people didn't get up, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0126par0405	There's 20 of them, there's 20 of them. Mr. Tanal, Mr. Bektasoglu, Mr. Sümüzdağ, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Kerıkoğlu, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Atici, Mr. Akyıldı, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Koksal, Mr. Bingöl, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Dudu, Mr. Göker, Mr. Turpcu. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Prime Minister's thesis to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, we will begin negotiations with the Constitutional Court of Prime Ministership, which is in the 2nd place, according to Article 92 of the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The United Nations Security Council adopted Decision 1701 (2006) on 11/8/2006 and contributed to the United Nations Interim Task Force (UNIFIL) in Lebanon under the permission of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with its 5/9/2006 decision for a year. The length of the permit is finally extended by a year from the year 5/9/2016, dated 27/6/2016 by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. With its contribution to UNIFIL, Turkey has taken an important role in carrying out an effective implementation of the peacekeeping operation. In this framework, Turkey's contribution has served to increase its appearance in all sections of Lebanon through regional and global civil-military cooperation activities, as well as through the United Nations system, and to maintain its policy to maintain peace and stability. UNIFIL is the only United Nations Peacekeeper operation our country has contributed to, and it is considered important to continue our contribution to the UNIFIL Naval Task Force. UNIFIL is due to expire on 31/8/2017 and is expected to be adopted by the United Nations Security Council in August to renew its mandate for the period after that. In light of these issues and in view of our bilateral relations with Lebanon and the security conditions in the region, if the United Nations Security Council decides to extend UNIFIL (UNIFIL)'s mandate, I shall allow the Turkish Armed Forces' elements, which will be determined by the government, to be held by the United Nations Security Council Decision 1701 (2006), and to be issued by the Supreme Assembly of Turkey's Supreme Assembly, as part of the principles determined by Articles 5/9/2017/10/2018, and to be issued by the UNIFIL Naval Task Force, and to be issued by the Constitution on the basis of the necessary arrangements. Government? Here. I will open negotiations on the Prime Ministerial Charter under Article 72 of the Civil Code; I will pledge to the groups, to the government, and to the two members on behalf of the person. Their talking time is 20 minutes each for groups and the government, ten minutes for individuals. I read the names of the members of the MPs who were quoted on Tezkere: Mr Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoglu on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Van MP Bedia Özbüzçe Ertan on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Ardahan MP Ozturk Yılmaz on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Mr. Smurf Ünal on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Again, on behalf of Hatay MP Mevlüt Dudu and secondly MP Samsun MP Hasan Basri Kurt will take the oath. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, we will hear from Mr Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu of Hatay. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0133par0432	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to extend Turkey to 31/10/2018, considering bilateral relations with Lebanon and security conditions for Turkey to contribute to the UN Interim Task Force in Lebanon. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, before I begin my speech, I would like to ask for immediate healing for 17 of our heroic soldiers who have been injured today, with a heavy number of explosives being detonated earlier by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) terrorists during the crossing of the military convoy on the way to Yüksekova-Esandere. I'm sure those who were injured in this treacherous attack will be accounted for someday. May Allah help and protect all our security forces with members of the Turkish Armed Forces. As the National Movement Party, we support international bilateral agreements as a basis of continuity in the state. That's why we'll give our support to this contract. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to make a point here. On the 15th of July, we were given pamphlets, magazines, and pictures in a bag. When we look at the pictures, it's as if only members of the ruling party were present at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on the night of the July 15 traitorous coup. One of the opposition MPs, especially the Republican People's Party and Republican People's Party MPs, didn't have a single frame in them, and I was in Parliament that day. I sincerely want to express it here, and I'm sorry to say it. More than a boast or sadness, I condemn the unity and unity of this House that night, even though all the members of the group that were present that night were speaking to the members of the group's vice presidents, and that our group's vice president was speaking here, but he was not allowed to take part in one of those squares. Dear lawmakers, our country faced a great deal on July 15th, and thankfully, our nation's faith and devotion to democracy, its sense of ownership of republic values, has been a major factor in preventing this treacherous attempt. And most importantly, we stand by the legitimate government of our nation, our state, our government, wherever it may come from. The coup attempt has been made to fail, but no danger has yet passed. All separatist and destructive elements and hidden remnants of Laila continue their secret treachery using concepts such as homeland, nation and nationalism, democracy, human rights, separation of forces, parliamentary democracy. Traitors are patriots, separatists are nationalists. In fact, they're all targeted by our republic, our state, especially the National Movement Party. Because the National Movement Party broke their game, took away their toys. Because from the night of July 15th, the National Movement Party has reversed the process that led the country to disintegration as the primary political speaker. It's not just about attacking the National Movement Party, but it's all in one hand, and it's also starting to attack our president-in-chief, who's breaking the game. Those who betray the Turkish nation, its will and its future will will surely ask for Turkish justice and will give the maximum punishment. In the glorious pages of our history, there were almost no apparent scoundrels, scenes of unimaginable, unimaginable violence, on the night of July 15th. The traitors wanted to complete the atrocities that Çanakkale muslims had to abandon. In an environment where Turkish enemies who were fired in the national struggle felt strong, they attempted to hand over the Pennsylvanian terrorists to Turkey first, and then to the top of it. Dear MPs, in a speech by our President, Mr. President of State Bahçeli Bey at the extraordinary special meeting of Parliament on July 15th, it is the name of this era of the Anatolian invasion conspiracy that has been going on for centuries. As the enemy of the Muslim Turkish nation, the superstition, the superstition is an uninhibited barbarism of the crusader mentality that keeps the global killing machine running inside and in our territory. If we don't get scared and come to our senses, if we don't meet in the national mind and consciousness, this barbarism won't last. If we don't secure and repair the peace and inner peace together, you'll know that new attacks are ahead. The charlatans, the degenerates, and the murderers of mankind, who have unleashed our nation against us, have targeted only one party, not just one person, not just one thought, but all of us, our nation. The ones we know of as friends walk behind us with a dagger. Those who are actively engaged to set up global and regional strategic equations against us are ready and waiting to fetter Turkey. They were armed and hired, and opened their bloody stalls in their homeland and in the areas of the mujavir. The sword of Islam is now in the hands of those who grope for the removal of the Turks from Anatolia. Instead of looking at positions on the 15th of July, strategic approach is a historic task our national honor has imposed on us to read the dangers at its source and to break the game. The plot was set up, the regiment was coming at us all of a sudden, just as long as we keep our ranks tight, and if we die, we die like men, heroes, but completely independent. If there's a victim, let's get rid of it, but let's never forgive those who killed the state and the nation. Let's not make the Pennsylvania servants of Pennsylvania laugh, or fall into disarray, with their dirty, sassy English heroes on them. I think their expressions need to be thoroughly evaluated. If we don't act on the understanding of our president-in-chief's warnings and warnings based on Ankara-based, national unity based on Turkey, that pre-determinates the integrity of the country, believe us, we may face greater negatives. But I also want to make it very clear here that in this troubled and fuzzy environment, the victimization of our people, whose love of the nation has been developed by the love of the nation, the principle of rule of law, the act of justice and neutrality, and the fear and anxiety of our nation must be eliminated. Sadly, in recent years, the principles of neutrality and integrity of public officials have been abandoned, in their promotions, in their promotions, in their promotions, in their appointment, in the appointment of public officials -- knowingly or not -- because of the parallel structure. It is the most essential requirement to ensure that the appropriate officer's position in public institutions is a boost in working peace, unity, solidarity and efficiency. These issues have unfortunately been weakened by the country's administration. The fact that those who have no representation, no knowledge and no integrity but rely on political opinion and power are brought to the authorities is also the cause of the negative. Thus, while the parallel structure of the terrorist organisation is being destroyed, it should not be made any more mistakes, it should be made with loyalty to the Turkish nation and democracy and new recruitment, regardless of its political views, regardless of its political views. Ministeries are being cleared and cleansed of ▪ There must be measures against the infiltration of other congregations and organisations through trade unions close to power. Dear MPs, as well as another matter, I would like to point out in particular what we have expressed in opposition to our party's opposition to the Turkish National Assembly's Investigation Initiative, the Research Commission. In particular, the organisation's political foot and the lack of full disclosure of the peace council in the dorm, which read for the coupgers on the night of July 15th, have brought new doubts. The firm's fiscal foot has not been taken concrete steps, and those who have contributed to the creation of such a powerful fiscal foot have not been fully investigated. The dark spots of events on the night of the coup have not been illuminated. The list of high-ranking bureaucrats and politicians using Bylock has been requested by the MIT to be delivered to the Commission by our party member friends, but our request has not been met. No work has been carried out in the municipalities. It also makes sense that no one answers the question until July 15th. The AKP government remained silent in these questions. Is it not the fault of the ministers who give you the opportunity to design politics over corruption, create space, increase in assets? These ministers must be brought to an independent judiciary. How can anyone believe in the struggle when the AKP MPs from the district are walking free? The fact that there have been no steps taken in the political foot of Å has so far shaken and injured the national conscience. The top priority in this matter is the government. It is the government that will mobilise law, intelligence and judgment. It would not satisfy the national conscience to target some lower-level political rulers, saying that ▪ had no political foot. Moreover, such an approach will weaken and wear off the effectiveness and credibility of the fight against ▪ No one has the right to do that. Finally, when I began to take an open stand against this structure from 2010 at the appointment ceremony of the fallen relatives of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, I found no one but my nation with me." Their expressions mean a lot. The failure or not being identified by the government and its relevant institutions, Mr. President, who is also the head of the ruling party, says he has been left alone by the government or the relevant state institutions, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0134par0444	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan will speak for Van MP. Here you go, Mr. Ertan.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0135par0448	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to begin with a round of previous statements. In fact, we were not surprised that the State of Emergency was extended for three more months. We will rise to the State of Emergency for the establishment of permanent peace and justice, and, unfortunately, the State of Emergency has been re-enlarged to send Kurds and opponents to prisons to keep the elected, co-chairs, our lawmakers in prisons, censoring the press. We, the Kurds, have seen this film before, as generations of those who grew up in the State of Emergency. In this country, it was claimed that the State of Emergency would last four months when it was announced on time, but we have witnessed the 46-time extensions of the State of Emergency. The only government we knew was the OHAL, which was already under martial law. We are the closest witnesses to the executions, thousands of villages, tens of thousands of unsolveds and tortures, the most basic rights, march, banning of newspapers, and the execution of the State of Emergency. The AKP government's ruling promise was to lift the State of Emergency, to resolve the Kurdish problem. That's what's ironic. After his power, we witnessed an AKP (AKP) who had broken his promises. Today we see how much you love the State of Emergency. And this time, we'd like to make the regime permanent as the State of Emergency. The constitutional amendment has registered a regime change. No one in this country is able to talk about freedom and security and the right to look to the future with confidence. We also understand that the talks are being held by the Constitutional Commission in the Civil Code talks. We're seeing the Civil Code arrangement that the two parties have imposed on us, just like the Constitutional Amendment. This amendment clearly aims to adjust the Parliament and keep the House under control. Under the Civil Charter, the Constitution's executive provisions are requested to be changed. Since you are unable to remove Article 83 of the Constitution directly, you go around with the Civil Charter and empty its contents. To remove the immunity of the bench means to make the people's will meaningless. I hope this amendment of the Civil Code won't pass through this House, but unfortunately, mine is only hope. Even in Parliament, the State of Emergency regime seems to continue with all its pressure. Thousands of people are being unjustly fired by the SECs, tortures continue, and arrests continue at full speed. On the other hand, those who oppose this regime continue to be silenced one by one. Those who oppose the regime are the ones who want Turkey to be the democratic state of law; those who want to be guaranteed to live equally and fairly in the common country. As the People's Democratic Party, we are the people who have come up with a road map for them. We have repeatedly expressed the pressures against us from this stand. That's why our co-chairs are under arrest, our deputies, our mayors, not in the first place today. Again, those who want Turkey to be a democratic law state and fulfill the need to become a civil society organisation, who are on the duty and effort to warn the government by being a advocate of rights, pay the price by being shut down by the Turkish Cypriots; their only crime is to do their duty. Members of parliament, the victims of the State of Emergency are relentless. One of them is the human rights advocates who have been in custody for more than ten days. Unfortunately, the public is being misled by the claims of some members of this Assembly, and there are slanders about our friends in custody. These 10 of my friends, who have been fighting for human rights their whole lives, are the kind of people I've fought with, the kind of people I know, the kind that can't hurt an ant. I'm a witness to their civil rights struggle. Along with me, the most prestigious human rights institutions in the world and thousands of people who know these people well, are witnesses to their struggle. I believe our friends who are now being questioned by the prosecution will all have their freedom. If their lies have remained the face of the media, they'll blush a little. On this occasion, I hope that the human rights advocates who have been in custody for the past 12 days will be released immediately because of the State of Emergency. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, who we've discussed and the government wants to extend, have a history of over ten years. It would have been expected that at least ten years, there would have been a comprehensive briefing on this dissertation. I'd like to ask you: What happened to our role in this peacekeeping force, which we were involved in, in terms of expression and reason, in order for a fair peace to take place in the Middle East many years ago? Did we succeed? What did Turkey do to bring about a fair peace in the Middle East? The years passed and what happened in the Middle East show that not a positive step has been taken. And considering that the Middle East geography has turned into a pool of blood in the meantime, we can't say that there's been a fair contribution to peace. However, the Prime Minister of the period, now President of the AKP and President Mr. Erdogan, in the need to be a great state, requires that the United Nations be in this temporary peacekeeping force. In the process, we found that the goal was actually to get a piece of the Middle East cake, or there were other purposes that we didn't know about. If a government is doing the same thing every year, it must do the accounting; it is necessary to inform the public. But what we have done in Lebanon, which has been sending soldiers for ten or so years, is that there has been no enlightening explanation of how far the United Nations Peace Corps has come in time. Congressmans, as the HDP Group, we are known to be anti-controversies. In a more accurate way, we object to policies that are clearly an intervention in foreign lands because an expression that states that international law is legitimate is a legal product of a colonial understanding. For what, for whom it is not legal, this frame, and only the international forces, will attack Iraq, Afghanistan, and will kill hundreds of thousands of people. Therefore, on behalf of my party group, I would like to request further information on this thesis. In respect of the will of this House, a comprehensive information is necessary. At least in the past year, there have been hundreds of improvements in this geography. Did these developments have any effect on this thesis? How did his budget change? Have there been operations involving the peacekeeping force in question? In fact, what are the soldiers doing now, joining this peacekeeping force on behalf of Turkey? You know, thousands of soldiers were discharged from the army because of the coup attempt. It is our right and the right of Turkey's society to learn and share them with the public. In addition, why is it necessary to extend this provision each year, perhaps with a cocopila-structure? How is it different from last year's text? Is the government going to explain that? Why has the United Nations Peace Corps been unable to achieve its goals in Lebanon for more than a decade? We need to know why, so we have an idea of what we're voting for next. Mr. President, we can't rule out the extension of the Lebanese thesis because it's over. Now the peacekeeping force is the second largest peacekeeping force of the United Nations in a numerical sense. In the event of a conflict in that area, we need to know about civilian casualties, the destruction that will occur. At the very least, we who sit here on behalf of the people, the people, the people who make politics to defend the interests of the society of Turkey, have to question all of this. Congressmans, our involvement in the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Lebanon since 2006 cannot, of course, be explained as one of the requirements of being a great state on its own. It's good to refresh your memory. In the name of this, I'd like to make a clear statement to the past, to remember those days. This peacekeeping force was formed against possible Hezbollah attacks from Lebanon. This peacekeeping force was built to calm Israel, which at that time made Lebanon hell because two soldiers were detained, and to ensure the safety of this state. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been directly responsible for every Palestinian child who has been murdered since then in the United Nations Peacekeeping Force, providing for Israel's security. In domestic politics, Palestinian selection material, campaign banners, and then to bring up this thesis in order to extend it, make sure it's inconsistencies. If being a great state means that colonial states go to co-operation for their own interests, congratulations, Turkey has become a member of the great states class in this sense. Dear MPs, as you know, one of the sides of the war in Syria is Lebanon, and the AKP government has become one of the most important actors of instability in Syria that has been going on for years, while establishing lasting peace there with the General Assembly. The AKP's government, in fact, has dismissed all the reasons repeated every year since it has been interviewed on the basis of this thesis by its policy in Syria over the years. On this occasion, perhaps the main question should be: What is Turkey's Middle Eastern policy? Does Turkey, or rather, the AKP government's foreign policy serve or serve fair peace in the Middle East? What AKP understood about peace in the Middle East was that Syria was fueling the fire, and today instead of taking constructive steps in the name of peace, we're starting a military base in Qatar, which is fueled by fuel. Congressmans, I'd like to talk to you about another matter regarding the thesis. That's the partnership that started in the energy field. Recently, the Minister of Energy, Mr. Colonel, has reached an agreement with the Israeli Energy Minister to build the pipeline, which will carry the Israeli gas from the Eastern Mediterranean to Europe through Turkey. We got that from the poses and statements they made together. On the one hand, we'll send messages to the European Union, say we're the spokesman for the Palestinian case, but on the other hand, let's not neglect the agreement with Israel, which the EU wants to be on the gas pipeline. You see, the candle of the AKP lies is no longer lit until the end of the night. Israel, according to international agreements, steals the gas from Palestine by committing crimes that it should have co-operated with the Palestinian administration, and the AKP government provides all the ease it can afford. That's how much Turkey's speech on the Palestinian case will be thanks to the AKP. Turkey shares the theft of the Palestinian reserve, the extortion. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have said that the AKP government has been asking the neighbours for years for strategic depth in foreign policy. So, what happened? We're talking about an army that piles up its border, a country that builds impenetrable walls on its border, a Turkey that has no ambassador in Syria, which conducts transitional talks. We're talking about dozens of soldiers who died in an unknown and future war crimes operation of the Firat Shield. Look, the people of Turkey are wondering why their children died outside, on foreign soil, and they're asking: "Why do we want peace, why are our children dying?" A country's foreign policy and domestic policy should not be a war policy, a plundering policy, not built on dead bodies. As the HDP Group, we have said this many times, and from now on, we will insist. Turkey must face the Kurds now. Turkey must return to all colors of the Middle East, not to Salafi gangs, but to jihadist groups. The Middle East must get used to the fact that there are different religions and sects in the Middle East. There are Muslims in the Middle East, there are Christians, there are Jews, there are persecutions. There are different sects in the Middle East. There are bayonets, Shiites, Alevis, Muslims. Christians have Orthodox people, Catholics, protestors. There's nasturis, there's Keldanis, there's Suryans. So many people would not have been so different from the Middle East when they ignored it. And it did not happen. While the barbaric ISIS killers you once described as angry children are being wiped out of those lands today, the role of Kurds, Arabs, Circumstrians, Ezidis must not be forgotten. You need to rebuild your Middle Eastern perception with peace policies as soon as possible. But it shouldn't be called a petition to send troops who are peacekeepers. You will come up with such a policy that in long-term stability, democracy, human rights, justice and conscience should be a policy that takes place. Peace policy is not to negotiate a gas-sale deal that Israel seized in the Palestinian waters in the evening when we were talking to your constituent in the morning about the case of our Palestinian brothers. Peace policy is not the 82nd district of Aleppo, the 83rd province of Aleppo. You need to stop spreading politics. For good relations with our neighbours in foreign policy, we need to make peace in the world as soon as possible. For the past two years, you've kept what you didn't do so that the Kurds wouldn't see your mother, you've let hundreds of coffins into the house. You turned the Kurdish against the Turk, the Turkish against the Kurdish. Every day, reports of lynching from a province began to come in. There's no peace with that understanding. There is no peace by reducing the population of 80 million to 50 million. Dear lawmakers, while our co-chairs are under arrest on one side, let no one expect us to believe that there is a president on the other who is supposedly representing the entire community. No one has the right to label our party's leader fucking terrorist. These are the first things to come to mind when it is said: He is the co-Chair of the People's Democratic Party who entered the Grand National Assembly with 59 MPs, with more than 5 million votes in the November 1, 2015 parliamentary elections. The HDP is the opposition party of all the peoples, the oppressed, the exploited, the outcasts, the segregated, the majority and majority of the country in Turkey. With destruction and denial policies, arrests, making Kurds enemies forever and forever, we can't make peace inside and outside, we can't bring social compromise. Turkey must quickly listen to the voices of those who call it peace. There's a fire inside the house, first we have to put this fire out together so that we can put out a map of the way to our geography where we can have human rights, justice, peace, equality, that everyone can live with their own identity, their own existence. It's up to all of us to do it, and it's the real duty of this House to do it. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to end my remarks by saying that the serious review of the government's Middle Eastern policies is mandatory for the interests of Turkey and for the interests of the people of the region and for the interests of the Middle East. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0136par0469	Thank you, Mr. Ozky Ertan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ardahan MP Özturk Yilmaz will speak. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0137par0473	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group to extend the mandate of UNIFIL, which is based in Lebanon, to extend the UN Security Council resolution for one more year if the UN Security Council comes up again. I salute the High Council. First of all, it is no longer possible to use foreign policy in the global world independently of what's going on inside. For example, is the terrorist organization ▪ Turkey's domestic policy or foreign policy? It's both domestic policy and foreign policy. Is the terrorist organization the PKK just Turkey's domestic policy, foreign policy? It's both domestic policy and foreign policy. If there is no security in a country, is it Turkey's domestic policy or foreign policy that tourists come? In addition, imports and exports, which cannot be considered independent of production and consumption, are both domestic policy and foreign policy of a country. What's happening in Turkey, especially after the coup attempt, is that the extraordinary state is announced on July 20th, and then the amendments in law enforcement and in real sense to the functioning of the state's structure, which are playing with the state's regime, require that events in Turkey be dealt with primarily with with outside events and that foreign policy be dealt with along with these issues. You know, after the coup attempt, Turkey was buried inside. Immediately after the coup attempt was declared on July 20th, the European Convention on Human Rights in general put Turkey on hold, meaning that it basically suspended the contract and declared that it would not apply -- put it in a large part of the general recession. The second check included the United Nations Convention on Civil Rights and Civil Rights. And he put it here when he pulled 13 critical substances. For example, he stated that he had suspended the right to a fair trial, and that he would not, in fact, apply the provisions of the State of Emergency, which would not normally be discussed about minorities. Later, when the 16 April referendum came to the agenda of the Venice Commission, the matter of this referendum suspended democracy, ended democracy institutionally, broke democracy, Turkey took an approach from democracy to autocracy. Then the Council of Europe... you know, Turkey was out of control in 2004, and Turkey was back in control. We're probably the only country in the world that's ever been democratized and out of control and back under control. Now, all of this has weakened Turkey's image outside, Turkey's democratic outlook. The perception of Turkey used to be that the majority of its population was Muslim, democratic, and secular. Now the majority of the population was again faced with the image of a Muslim but autocratic country, and for the first time -- no President was remembered for a regime -- was mentioned in this period as the Erdogan regime. It was as if the Saddam regime, a regime like the Gaddafi regime, a regime like the Kerimov regime, was mentioned in the name of a president. These, of course, affected Turkey's appearance outside, and Turkey buried it inside. Turkey has not interfered much with the outside developments, I'm afraid. See, we're having problems with NATO, we're having problems with the European Union, we're having problems with Russia, we're having problems with the United States. In the Middle East, we're literally in a swamp, and we can't get rid of it. More importantly, we're losing the friends we have because of the wrong policy. Now in the Middle East, there is Qatar, who is clear that Turkey will sell us tomorrow, and Hamas who does not want to enter the international terror line because of the Muslim brothers who will leave us at any moment, and they will slowly leave us. On Friday, you know, there was an incident in Palestine. At the entrance of the Masjidi Aksa, a bomb went off at the Lion's Gate in Palestine and an attack took place. After that, Israel, especially immediately after that, stopped the entrances to Israel and stopped the meeting for three days. Then Netanyahu found the golden motive he wanted before, but couldn't find, and he put cameras and detectors in the entrances to the Mascidi Aksa, you know, so he put a detector in a meeting place. Of course, that was the reaction of our Palestinian brothers there. However, these events, which Turkey should be monitoring particularly closely, can trigger a rekindle in the Middle East, the precision of the event is known to all. See, there's nothing to be done here after the incident of the Blue Marmara on the two-state solutions, and then the Israeli soldiers were pardoned from the judiciary. The voice of the oppressor was muted, and there was a lot of talk in the past, and this is happening, our Palestinian brothers... were won elections for him, and they were thrown in the middle for him, and no one was heard from. Is that news in Turkey? For two or three days, people could not enter the mosque of Aksa. Is there any news? It's not working. Why? Because the pool doesn't work for the media to do the news. I mean, we've politicalized everything, we're looking at everything relative, we're looking at the world with a postmodern understanding, I'm afraid. We support the union of Israel and Palestine within the framework of a two-state solution, and the quick formation of a Palestinian (Palestrus) within its capital, East Jerusalem, in 1967, and the two-state solution for Israel to live within secure and well-known borders. There's no other way, but we're afraid that if these events flare up, especially Turkey's indifference to these events could lead to a new fireball in the region. Now, look, there are developments in the European Union. The report's being published, we're throwing it away. The Council of Europe has issued a warning, and we're throwing it away. Something comes from NATO, we don't listen, we don't listen to anything. Why? Because there's a democracy-related operation going on inside, and basically, no one's very much wanted to interfere while this operation is being conducted. Now, there are developments in the Middle East. We'd like to say a few words about that. See, the most important issue in the Middle East today is that the administration in America has put Iran back on the target board. Why? Because he sees that Iran has too much influence in the Middle East, and he is concerned that Iran can control the area from the Persian Gulf to the Babylonian Mendep Strait because of the Shiite element. This whole Qatar thing, the sale of weapons in Saudi Arabia, the sale of arms to Qatar, all of this stuff, it would be wrong to consider outside the general strategy. In the south of the Middle East, there is a new formation in the north and in our region. See, Barzani announced he was going to the independence referendum on September 25th. The State Department made a statement that meeting with Iraq would be necessary to address these issues within the scope of the integrity of Iraq, and its timing was wrong. The U.S. State Department and U.S. officials have opposed the timing of the event, not primarily, and said they have a reservations about its timing. We have a critical summer ahead of us, what will this AKP government do? The referendum will likely result in a decision on independence of 99.9%. Barzani may not use it as a tactic, but what are you going to do? Is there a strategy? Nothing's clear. Also, the developments in Syria... look, the ISIS in Syria is withdrawing completely from there, and the Rakka operation is over, and the Rakka is basically surrounded, and the operation of Mosul is over. There were two areas left in Iraq; one, the region of Gayyara is completely clean, and the region of Havice remains a small area, and one, Telafer. Is there a plan? Has ISIS been pulled out of here, any plans for the administrative structure of this place, for the integrity of this country, for that place? Is it written anywhere, drawn or thought about? Let's just say it's not. Anything on Syria? In Syria, the Rakka will likely fall within a month or two. It will be a warm summer in Syria after the fall!) So, is there a plan for Syria? We support the land integrity of Syria. We call it on paper. Well, is there anything about him? The Astana process plays from another string, Geneva plays from a different string, Turkey plays from a different string. There's no work, there's a void. Look, there's a gap in open foreign policy. Turkey has been isolated outside, and basically the administration here has buried Turkey, we're buried, we can't look outside because we're buried. Earthquakes are happening. The Cyprus issue... the negotiations are over. In negotiations, the Greek side and the KKTC couldn't agree on guarantees. Well, look, we've heard this story all the time, and the last time we said, this is the last time we're looking for a solution, we've got a golden chance. If it doesn't happen this time, it never will. If not this time, the alternatives will come to the agenda. What alternative do you have? We ask the administration of the KKTC: What is your alternative? The day it is finished, the next day, the new solution effort begins. Yeah, that's not gonna happen. Can a case like this be defended? What kind of work is that? So the KKTC there, our Turkish Cypriot brothers there, doesn't pay for real estate, their future is uncertain. They've got him insulation down insulation up. What is isolation? What is isolation? Isolation means I don't introduce KKTC. I mean, because I'm stalling. So, is it getting up? He's not getting up either. If you consent to the smallest, can you get the biggest one? We said last time that introduction should now be made a priority agenda, a special representative for the introduction of the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be appointed, and this representative should travel all over the world. What are we waiting for? The negotiations have stopped. They used to say: "Ya, there are negotiations. Thus, EU talks are affected. Do we have a perspective on opening negotiations? I don't have that either. All the chapters and chapters have stopped, and no chapter has been opened. When we go to Brussels last week, what can Turkey open? They say, "What can Turkey open?" Well, don't you have to make a move at a time like this? Shouldn't you have a diplomatic move? Basically, you've found his weakest point, he's not picking up, so we need to do something. You see, in foreign policy, the most important thing isn't talking about nothing, it's determination. If you can't do that today, you can never do it. We're supposed to kneel to less than a million Greeks? When their hearts ask for it, will we agree to a solution in the framework of the calendar, or in the circumstances they want? That can't happen. Look who's wanted: earth. They say we don't give land. What don't you give land? The land of the KKTC was 36 percent now, 36 percent, including the interstate, including our area. So, what's going on? We've taken our fall to 28 percent and delivered it to the United Nations, so in case of a solution, we've said we're going to drop by 28 percent. Where are we not? You know what that means? This means abandoning 23 percent of KKTC's territory. Why are we doing this? God's command? Is it written in a sacred book? Why should we? Sir, there will be a solution. The solution is, he's got it, and you're gonna get it, and you're gonna get it. Why would we give it to him? You turn the whole thing upside down, you mess up the Constitution, you mess up the law, you mess up democracy, you mess up everything that's in place, and you don't respect the settlement at all, so why don't you stand up to the arrangements that other people bring in? [[Applause from CHP rows]] This is our national issue. If you stand firm in this, We will support you. We're open to criticism, and we're willing to accept any criticism. As long as we stand in the right place, criticize us, I don't care, but let's stay in the right place. Now, sir, they say this solution isn't happening now. Now, let's put it to bed. Look where we're going to start again in ten years. See, I'll tell you: we've fallen to 28.6, or whatever it is. When it starts ten years later, they'll drop us behind it. And I'll tell you the same thing about the Guaranteed Agreement, the British say: "By Allah, we give land." Well, you give land, brother, and you give up the Annan Plan, but do you give up the right to intervene, to give up the sovereign bases there? You're the dominant base in Cyprus... it says this is my land. That's out of the question, I can only give up some land. I don't pass, but I can give you some land. Well, Greece doesn't want a unilateral intervention to throw Turkey away, and England doesn't want one, and all England wants to do is stay at sovereign bases. Well, brother, from this point on, I'll give it to you. Now, they've got us at a point, and we have to do it every step of the way from now on. Do we have to? Why do we give it to him?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0138par0494	We didn't. Nothing's been given.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0137par0495	It's not that you didn't, it's that you give, it's that you give, it's that you give, it's that you give, it's that you give, it's that you give, it's that you give, it's that you They're watering down the Guarantee Agreement, saying: "Let there be no more United Nations power, no more Turkish army, no more police force, no more police force, no more United Nations in the United Nations, and when the United Nations is involved, let there be no more decisions, let Turkey decide alone."
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0138par0496	The President has been repeatedly expressed by the prime minister that garantism is indispensable.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0137par0497	Article 4 of the Guarantee Agreement gives Turkey the right to one-sided intervention, just as it has given others. Please let's not do politics on this, friends.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0138par0498	We said we wouldn't give up, and so did our president, and so did the Foreign Minister.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0137par0499	The Guaranteed Agreement will be watered down and watered down. In Crans-Montana, they said, "We're going to close them up. They're going to talk about what?" They'll talk there until you dilute the clause related to the Guaranteed Agreement. It's no joke, I'm telling you, no matter who criticizes us, as long as we're standing here, we have to handle this national case. The Mediterranean has been valued more than ever in history. In Syria, the Russians are building bases, naval bases, land bases. Doesn't it? The United States is setting up in the area of the PYD. You see, the United States of America has one hand in Qatar, there are 11,000 soldiers there, it builds the 5th Fleet into Bahrain, it has separate bases in Iraq, it has separate coordination centers in Erbil. Oh, come on, what are you guys doing? The nation is massing troops in the Mediterranean, and you are drawing soldiers out of the Mediterranean. Why, why are we doing this? Sir, they're taken, they're taken when we talk like that. Yeah, that's the way I have to talk, bro, that's the way we have to talk. It's time to face the truth. Look, it's water under this bridge now. We don't have to deal with Cyprus the way it's been imposed on Turkey so far. We don't have to make a compromise to please anyone. Who thinks they're in charge of that? Also, please, I'd like to point out that there's an understanding that Turkey wants to crush whatever nationality there is to take gold from its feet and crush it with rage. You say something, they go against it. Yeah, brother, I don't have land in Cyprus, I don't have anything, I don't have anything. I don't even have a home in Ardahan, my constituency. There's nothing wrong with us, it's a matter of country. I mean, you can't take what you're giving here and you can't come back. We think that the maximum effort will be made, that all parties, our brothers from the EC PARTY, who originally ruled, will observe and take care of it, and that at least there should be no deviation. See, developments in the Middle East have bound Turkey's hand, and the Mediterranean has tied it up, and tomorrow it will bind to the Aegean, and it will come to an unsustainable, unsustainable point. And let's stop fighting with everyone else. This binds Turkey's hands. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0139par0505	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, İstanbul MP Shirin Ünal will speak. Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0140par0509	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Justice and Development Party Group on the approval of our supreme Parliament to extend Turkey's contribution to the United Nations Interim Task Force UNIFIL until 31 October 2018. I salute the High Council. Before I begin my remarks, on July 15, 2016, I ask that all of our democratic martyrs, who showed their lives to protect their country from the attacks of the traitorous terrorist group, on the occasion of the 1st anniversary of their testimony, God's mercy, and his condolences to our people and to our nation. Again, I wish our veterans a speedy recovery, who have fought heroically against these attacks, and I wish them a good life. On the night of the 15th of July, we had people in every corner of the country, in every street, in every political sense, in the company and in the world. Since that night, Turkey has shown everyone who has had the will to own their freedom and their future when necessary. All negative accounts of Turkey have been lost on July 15th. It was believed that if we were to unleash the world's bloodiest, most violent terrorist organizations from PKK to DEAS, we could digest this country. It was believed that when we took out the armed terrorists in uniform, the planes, the tanks, the cannons, we could take this nation into custody. Once again, I pray to God that these pains do not happen again in our country, from the stand of our Veteran Assembly. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs were formed in Lebanon after the Israeli-Lubnan war in 2006, for the purpose of the establishment and maintenance of peace in Lebanon, the United Nations Interim Task Force of Lebanon (UNIFIL). The security and stability of the Lebanese-Israeli border is still under way as a result of our country's successful missions, which have contributed to the force. The mandate of UNIFIL (UNIFIL) established on 11 August 2006 by the United Nations Security Council on 1701 is set as a temporary one-year term. The same decision also envisions a re-enlargement each year if the time is seen as necessary. The mandate of UNIFIL has been extended ten times so far. This time, the UN Security Council stipulates that UNIFIL will extend UNIFIL's mandate by the end of August 2017 for another year. Mr. President, in our recent geography, the facility for peace and stability is one of our primary foreign policy targets. All developments involving regional peace, stability and security can undoubtedly have significant repercussions for our foreign policy. The recent developments in our region have once again revealed that our country's stability and well-being cannot be considered separate from the countries of the region. With that dignity, it is unthinkable for us to remain indifferent to regional developments that concern our national interests and interests closely. With that understanding, our government's foreign policy aims to create a generation of peace, security, stability and prosperity around our country. The key importance for the stability of the entire region in Lebanon is no doubt more important in an environment where the Syrian regime's bloody violence and pressure policies against the public have increased the threat of stability in the region in which peace and stability are moving through our region. The increase in the periodic tensions and actions aimed at social peace among ethnic and religious groups in Lebanon continues to be a source of concern under the influence of regional developments. Hezbollah's growing support for the Syrian regime and the fact that it is in addition to the regime in Syria is also involved in developments in Syria. In addition, the refugee pressure of millions of Syrians, who have been forced to flee from the conflict and have been sheltered in neighbouring countries, leaves Lebanon with serious trials. Tensions from time to time among different groups of sects in the country have thus far been prevented from growing in the common sense of the government of Lebanon, the people of Lebanon, and the army. The social resistance of the Lebanese people and the long-standing culture of living together has allowed the country's instability to be as minimal as possible. We hope that this sense of maturity and solidarity that the people of Lebanon displayed during difficult times is also important to other communities in the region. However, the tests that the Lebanese community has successfully resisted so far will gradually take on new dimensions under the influence of regional dynamics. More than a million refugees from Syria and Palestine, who have recently taken refuge in Lebanon, are also concerned about disrupting the country's delicate religious balance. In addition, the Shii-Sunni tension created by DEAS will have negative effects on the peace, peace and stability of Lebanon, which is based on more sociopolitical balances than on other countries in the region. If these effects are not kept to a minimum, a sectary-based domestic conflict in the country could pose a serious risk and a threat to peace and stability at regional and global levels, particularly neighbouring countries. Thus, this statement is of serious importance. Honourable MPs, Turkey has taken on an important role in carrying out the effective implementation of its peacekeeping operation with its contributions to UNIFIL. In this framework, Turkey's contribution has made a significant contribution to increased visibility in all parts of the Lebanese community, as well as through regional and global civil-military cooperation activities within the United Nations system, as well as in maintaining policy on maintaining peace and stability. Our contribution to the UNIFIL Naval Task Force is considered important, considering that UNIFIL is the only United Nations Peace Force operation our country has contributed to. UNIFIL is expected to expire on 5 September 2017, with a resolution expected by the United Nations Security Council to renew its mandate for the period after this date. Given our bilateral relations with Lebanon and the security conditions in the region, the UN Security Council would be seen as appropriate to participate in UNIFIL naval task force from September 5, 2017 to October 31, 2018, if the UN Security Council has decided to extend UNIFIL's mandate. As I put an end to my words, the government declares that I am positive about continuing our military contribution to UNIFIL, and I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0141par0523	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. Members of parliament (3/1165) has ended the talks of groups on the main Prime Minister's Office. We will now first listen to Mr. Mevlüt Dudu. Here you are, Mr Dudu, ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0142par0527	Mr. President, I have made a personal commitment to the Prime Minister's Office to extend the mandate of the UN peacekeeping forces in Lebanon, the TSK elements in UNIFIL. I salute the High Council. Starting with my words, today in Hakkari, I wish for immediate healing for our Mehmetchiki who was wounded by the terrorist organization's attack on Hakkari. Dear lawmakers, Turkey is the country that pays the most for civil wars and imperially calculated fires near us. The refugee approaching 4 million shows that we have to create a peace zone around Turkey, the economic cost paid by increasing national security threat, the collapse of exports and tourism. In order to form a peace zone around Turkey, we need to focus on unity, unity and peace, and then we need to be peacemakers around us, leaving our own polarization and confrontation aside. What we need to do in this sense is not just be military power; we have to take our soft strength, our geographical, economic, demographic, political and social power to a very high level. However, polarization within the country we live in is damaging our soft strength. We have to put this soft power into diplomacy. Therefore, it is very important for our country's sake not to be a part of the world's sharpening conflict, but rather to not make Turkey a part of the potential wars as a mediator. Unfortunately, Turkey sent troops to Qatar, taking the lead of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates against the bloc, holding them in line with Qatar. This led to the loss of our ability to mediate there in the East, leading the Arab world, leading all the arrows of a country toward us. The first question we'll ask about Qatar is, will Turkey become Qatar's police in the region by taking all the Gulf countries against it? How many Mehmetchik will we send to Qatar? Why is Turkey destroying all of Middle East action skills and potential intermediary potential by confronting the United Arab Emirates, Egypt, Bahrain, Yemen, and Libya, which are aligned alongside Saudi Arabia? Saudi Arabia has made it clear that it opposes the Turkish base in Qatar. Putting aside the national interests of his own country, this move will bring nothing but loneliness to Turkey. As the economy worsens, exports will also have a negative effect and will bring new dangers to our people. Turkey has no choice but to be a good chess player in Middle Eastern geography, which US President Trump is seeking to reshape. Dear lawmakers, we have been right so far, especially in all our warnings regarding foreign policy over the past six years. We were right about everything we disagreed about very shortly after that. Iraq, Syria, Egyptian policies, a re-enactment agreement with the closer European Union, failed less than a year later. Now I'd like to share some information about Qatar. The memo from the Foreign Ministry to Foreign Affairs Commissioners has confessions waiting for Turkey. There is a emphasis on England's construction of a new military base for Bahrain, where Qatar is home to 10,000 US soldiers. The information note aims to develop and strengthen political, military, defence industry, economic, commercial and human relations with Gulf countries. It is called and continues to say, underline that the same will exists in the Gulf countries. In this framework, our relations with Qatar (Katar) are of special importance. This vision has now been compromised, just as I had just given examples, because the Gulf countries have faced Qatar (Katar), and Turkey, which stands by Qatar (Katar), has taken over the Saudi Arabia-led bloc. Again, the foreign information note states that international terrorist organisations, such as DEAS, Al Qaeda, are serious threats that the two countries are fighting jointly. The last painting, however, invalidated the emphasis. Under the leadership of Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Bahrain, Yemen, and the United Arab Emirates accuse the Doha administration, ISIS and Al Qaeda of causing instability in the region. The AKP's power, sending the Turkish soldier to Qatar, who does not trust his own army in the regional fire, is a sign of the dangers that lie ahead for our country, making it a part of this great war. This is the last time we warn you: the war roulette, where the major players are in the Middle East, where the Muslim countries are pawns, cannot be infected with the blood of Mehmetchik. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to make some more recent statements on foreign policy. In three days, we will celebrate the Day of Peace and Freedom in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. On the occasion of the 43rd anniversary of the operation, we must protect the achievements of the Cypriot Peace Corps, which stopped blood and tears in Cyprus, saved our relatives from the massacre, and entered Turkish history in gold letters. For stability, peace and security in the Mediterranean, we must not come to the Greek side's firmness and games. Recent negotiations have shown that there is no fair, permanent, and comprehensive solution on the island. A partnership on the basis of political equality and bilateral status on the island that makes the two founding states difficult. The talks, which began in November 2016, failed in the process. Mr. Ozturk Yilmaz has just said that the compromises we make as a result of each negotiation are in front of us in the next negotiation, and we have to start there. The Greek side, which red carpeted the British soldier, can't stand Turkey's garantism, the fact that there are Turkish soldiers on the island, wants most of the land we've earned by action back, demanding compromises that will make Turks a minority and open the door to new disasters. We can't give up our garantism for the safety of our Turkish kinsmen. We cannot leave the safety and future of the Turkish Cypriots at the mercy of the Greeks. Turkey must now start a new process on the KKTC. To be internationally recognised, diplomatic action must be taken and new formulas must be put into the field, with the participation of all parties in Turkey's Grand National Assembly by placing new solution processes on the table. We cannot give up on the KKTC, which is vital to the security of the Mediterranean. The KKTC is a national case for Turkey today, as it was yesterday. Dear MPs, the European Parliament has made a historical error in agreeing to suspend ongoing accession talks with Turkey on condition. Of course, the AKP government's attitude and behaviors, the removal of freedom of thought and expression from the European Union in Turkey, the filling of journalists who have done its job in prison, the fact that I am speaking to innocent citizens in the recent KHKs -- and it is not in the form of democracy that the AKP government rejects academics who are not related to the European Union. However, Turkey's EU journey is a journey that began many years before the AKP, which cannot be ended with the wrong agenda of the AKP. The European Union is the 60-year dream of Turkey, of this country, of this nation, of ending this dream, of ending it for nothing, of the AKP's government or the European Union. My love to you all again.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0143par0541	Thank you, Mr. Dudu. On behalf of the government, Mr. Fikri Ik, our Secretary of State of Defense, will now speak for him. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0144par0545	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our government to the approval of our great Parliament that Turkey's contribution to the United Nations Interim Task Force should be extended from September 5, 2017 to October 30, 2018. The security and stability of the Lebanon-Israeli border is under way following the 2006 Israel-Lubnan War, which was created in Lebanon for the purpose and maintenance of peace in Lebanon and the country's strong contribution to the United Nations's temporary task force or English acronym. The mandate of UNIFIL, established on August 11, 2006 by the United Nations Security Council, was temporarily set as a year, and was envisioned to extend it every year if necessary. The mandate of UNIFIL has been extended 10 times so far. Our country made intense diplomatic efforts at that time to end the 34-day Israeli-Lubnan war, which is at risk of spreading across a large region. On August 11, 2006, a ceasefire was reached on August 14, 2006, following the adoption of Decision 1701, and Turkey decided to contribute force to UNIFIL on the basis of the importance that we attribute to regional peace and stability. In accordance with this will, it has been approved by the decision of our great Parliament on September 5th, 2006, to authorise the government to join the elements of the Turkish Armed Forces. Following this decision, Turkish Armed Forces were deployed in the region from October 2006 to begin their duties. As UNIFIL's mandates continue, UNIFIL has been renewed so far. In this regard, the deadline for this authorization received by our government last year from our great Parliament will expire on 5 September 2017. The UN Security Council envisions an extension of UNIFIL's mandate for a year at the end of August 2017. In this framework, our government has asked for time off from our great Parliament in accordance with Article 92 of our Constitution, which ensures that the time of our country's contribution can be extended in accordance with UNIFIL's mandate. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as you know, one of our country's primary foreign policy targets is the establishment of peace, security and stability in our immediate geography. All developments involving regional peace, security and stability certainly have significant repercussions for our foreign policy. In this regard, the latest developments in our region have once again shown that our country's stability and security cannot be considered separate from the countries of the region. Of course, it is unthinkable for us to remain indifferent to regional developments that concern our national interests. With that understanding, one of the main goals of our foreign policy is the creation of a generation of lasting peace, security, stability and prosperity around us. In this framework, Lebanon is a geographically small country, but it is key to regional stability. The political and social structure is based on a proportional share between religious and ethnic communities in Lebanon, where the dissolutions in the Middle East manifest in the small model. The building based on delicate balances is constantly tested by the reflection of the conflict in the neighbouring country of Syria. The increase in periodic tensions and acts aimed at social peace among the religious and ethnic groups in Lebanon continues to be a source of concern over recent years. Hezbollah, who is an active political and military force in Lebanon, supports the Syrian regime to an increasing extent and is cognitive in the conflict in Syria, making Lebanon sensitive to developments in Syria. At such a time, the protection of social harmony in Lebanon has become more important than ever. In this regard, all contact with Lebanon emphasizes that it is extremely important that this country stick to its policy that it should not be a part of the Syrian conflict. The intense refugee pressure of millions of Syrians, who have been forced to flee from the conflict and have been sheltered in neighbouring countries, leaves Lebanon with serious social trials. Today, some 4.5 million inhabitants of Lebanon also host around 1.5 million Syrian and Palestinian refugees. In this context, the refugee issue stands out as one of the most fundamental problems of instability facing Lebanon. On the other hand, the recent chaos of the DEA's terrorist organization in Iraq and Syria and the developments in Yemen and Libya may have negative repercussions for the peace, peace and stability of Lebanon, which is based on far more sensitive sociopolitical balances than other countries in the region. No doubt if these effects are not kept to a minimum, a sectary-based internal conflict in the country will create serious risks and threats to peace and stability at the regional and global level, especially in neighbouring countries, and will be able to cause difficult, deep damage. At this point it is important to support and strengthen the Lebanon Armed Forces in the context of the Syrian-based security threat and the risk of regional conflict. In addition to support under UNIFIL, our country is working with the Lebanese side for strengthening the Lebanon Armed Forces, as well as for steps that can be implemented in the coming period, particularly in training co-operation. Our country is closely monitoring deep historical ties with Lebanon and developing bilateral relations in all areas, as well as developments in Lebanon. In the current conjunctural, the preservation of peace and quiet in Lebanon has become more important than ever. In this framework, we welcomed the arrival of Michel Aoun (Michelle) on 31 October 2016 after more than two years of internal talks, and the establishment of Prime Minister Saad Hariri (P.S.A.) of the new government of Lebanon on December 18, 2016. In the same way, we believe that the new electoral law adopted on 16 June 2017 and the extension of parliament's mandate by 21 May 2018 will contribute to the stability Lebanese would require. These recent developments will undoubtedly enable the government of Lebanon and its Parliament to work effectively, helping to make decisions that the country desperately needs and implement laws. Our concrete contributions to peace and stability in this country, which we attribute to the stability and prosperity of Lebanon, have a positive effect on every aspect of our bilateral relations. The superior performance of our troops serving at UNIFIL is appreciated by the people of Lebanon as well as by other participating countries. As a matter of fact, many important projects carried out by the Turkish Armed Forces have been in the memory of the Lebanese people as part of the missions carried out by UNIFIL since 2006, when we contributed to UNIFIL's force. Among them are projects such as supplying electricity for village schools, playing fields for village schools, building health clinics and water depots for villages, construction of roads. Until 2013, we joined UNIFIL with an army and naval force. And since 2013, we've joined with our only marine elements. In this scope, we are carrying out control operations within the naval task force of UNIFIL -- which will transfer one Tuzla-class police vessel to our assault boat for tasks in the sea. This contribution is an important component in the active execution of the UNIFIL Agency for Peacekeeping. Without a doubt, this mission of Turkish Armed Forces is an important building block of our policies to preserve peace and stability in our region. Dear friends, Turkey's foreign policy priorities are clear. We support peace, peace and prosperity in our region. Our Qatar policy is the result of this, our regional policy is the result. All the roles we play in the region are a policy based on the peace, prosperity and trust of the region. Therefore, I would like to express in particular that we do not agree with the opinions of fellow contributors here. The talks on Cyprus have been concluded. Turkey has once again registered its right with the United Nations Security Council, with the Secretary General of the United Nations, with all the countries participating in these talks. Turkey has demonstrated its position in favour of the solution, but not in favour of compromise. As of today, the talks are closed, and Turkey will never move on from its national interests to the national interests of the Turkish Cypriots without any compromise. It's a government policy, it's a state policy. Have no doubt about it. Any positive contribution from the opposition in this matter, believe me, will strengthen the government of the Republic of Turkey. With that understanding, we will continue to discuss these matters. In light of this approach, our government maintains that it would be appropriate to continue to contribute power to the provisional task force UNIFIL, the UN Security Council's resolution 1701, which represents international legitimacy and reflects the common will of the international community. In this regard, I welcome you with the utmost love, with the utmost respect, from September 5, 2017 to October 30, 2018, to our great Parliament, where the mandates of the UNIFIL naval task force will be extended.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0145par0557	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, finally, on behalf of the person, our Samsun MP Mr. Hasan Basri Kurt will speak. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0146par0561	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself regarding the further extension of Turkish troops under UNIFIL, the United Nations force in Lebanon. I salute you all. The technical statements on the thesis have just been delivered by our Minister here to our House. Of course, when it comes to countermeasures, our Parliament usually acts together in terms of sending troops abroad, with opposition, with power. However, many foreign policy issues have also been discussed here. A few of these may not be an answer, but I'd like to talk to you about our position. First of all, the negative outcome of Cyprus talks over the past week. Of course, from our point of view, our position was at the point of continuation until the end of garantism, where Turkey would not give up its right to garanteurship in any way, at the presidential level, at the Prime Minister level, at the Foreign Minister level, expressed that we would not give up on it. Turkish citizens there have been made very clear that the citizens of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus there will not be given up their rights. Of course, from the day we came to power, we took different steps in Cyprus at different times, and our primary goal here was to ensure that psychological superiority once again falls into Turkey's hands. Our Minister has just expressed, with the United Nations, with international public opinion, Turkey currently has psychological superiority in Cyprus. In terms of the Cyprus resolution, Turkey has the psychological superiority over the international public in order to establish a bilateral peace in Cyprus, in order to establish a bilateral peace in Cyprus, and it is not afraid to express its arguments very clearly in many international platforms, and we are very aware that we never, ever have the luxury of giving up guarantees or anything else. The issue of Iran, of course, has been a serious problem in the region recently, along with changes in the policies of the United States. During the Iraq War, Turkey made its position on Iran very clear during the internal turmoil of Iraq. Turkey has always expressed it over and over again in the eyes of international public opinion, in the eyes of its partners, to prevent the spreader in the region, and has shown a very clear attitude. We stand against all kinds of attitudes, all kinds of behavior, all sorts of behavior that would create instability in the region. In our position in Iraq, when they tried to accuse us of being a defender of the Sunni wing, sometimes from inside and from some corners in Turkey, from some politicians in Turkey, perhaps from the newspapers in the United States, from the newspapers in Europe, as if a Shii-Sünni conflict, or as part of the Shii-Sunni entity, was tried to show Turkey as a part of Turkey as a part of Turkey's policy in Iran, and it was very clear that Turkey's policy on the territorial integrity of Iraq was very clear, and that its policy on the basis of the United States of the United States, as if it were to be supported by the United States, in a number of times before that period of years, in which the United States, the United States of Turkey, in the United States, the United States, the United States of Turkey, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, and the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, and the United States and the United States and the United States, the United States, the United States and the United States and the United States, and the United States and the United States. Of course, one of the things we're predicting right now is Hashi Shabi. I wish his name was mentioned in the speeches. As a terrorist organization, ISIS is an organization that we clearly describe as Hasdi Shabi. And today, unfortunately, PYD in northern Syria is being used in a certain way, by certain forces, and Hasidi Shabi at different levels, even at that level, even if not at that level. And he's at risk of becoming one of the most important terrorist organizations in this region that's going to cause trouble tomorrow. Unfortunately, as Turkey, we express it to the international public, and we will continue to express it. The Qatar issue, from Turkey's point of view, really, was not an unexpected or unexpected problem that we found in our laps all of a sudden. The issue about Qatar was intended to be transformed into something that, in fact, was related only to the international public and to different country politicians or bureaucrats that we were dealing with, as if by sending troops to Turkey. We certainly deny that, and our president has made very clear statements about it. Qatar said if he wanted to, we could draw our troops out of here, Turkey would draw his troops out of there if it would serve the peace. But with many who have expressed it, in Qatar, in Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates, Egypt, there have been talks with them by Turkey, but perhaps something else that is not expressed, the closure of Al Jazeera. Look, a country is attempting a mass lynching against a country's press organization, and the whole world is watching. That's what we said. Not because of journalism in Turkey, but because of different crimes, aiding, abetting, or carrying his weapon... People carrying their journalistial identity are defended by the United States, Germany to the end, an entire publishing organization such as Al Jazeera is being subjected to a collective interest, and no one is making a sound. You have to express that, too. It's also clear that Turkey... We've worked here together, and you all know how much we've sacrificed over the last two years in the European Union. Especially the step Turkey took at the point of solving the immigration crisis, and the fact that it didn't respond is a different problem from our point of view, and it still looks like a mountain in front of us, the fact that the promises were not fulfilled seems to be a mountain. The hypocritical attitude towards Turkey, unfortunately, is a serious hypoxia here by the European Union. I think that needs to be identified, too. Just because this hypocracy is being done, we are not in a position to isolate ourselves from Europe or from the entire world, but I want to say that Turkey will always continue its native national stance and there will be no deviation from it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0147par0572	Thank you. Congressmans, talks on the Prime Minister's thesis have been completed. Now I'm going to put the thesis to your votes. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There is a Prime Minister's thesis in accordance with Article 92 of the Constitution, which is in the third place, and we begin its negotiations. Subject: The Council of Ministers' Principle Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The United Nations (UN) Security Council's decision, dated 25/4/2013 and 2100 (2013), was adopted by a unanimous vote to establish the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stability Mission (MINUSMA) in Mali. IN THE mission directive of the UN Security Council, dated 29/6/2015 and under the UN Security Council's Decision 2227, defined as the main tasks to ensure stability in the country, to support the ceasefire process, to monitor and control the peace process, to support the national political dialogue process, to provide support for UN personnel and civilians, to provide support for human rights and support for cultural assets through humanitarian activities, and to enable UN General Secretary General to intervene in the demands of the UN General, to help the French troops, if they are under immediate and serious threat. On the other hand, the UN Security Council's resolution, dated 10/4/2014 and 2149, was established by the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stability Mission (MINUSCA) in the Central African Republic. The mission directive of MINUSCA is to protect civilians, to identify and register threats against civilians in areas in which they are located, to contribute to political life in the country's transition process and to the establishment of state authority in the country, to preserve the country's territorial integrity, to facilitate humanitarian aid, to protect UN personnel, to protect human rights, to protect and promote human rights, and to support return to the country, and to support reform efforts for the security facility of security in the Central African Republic. The UN has invited our country to participate in these missions. It has also been requested that our country contribute to the UN missions in question during talks with the UN's 70th General Assembly. The military contribution to the solution of human and political crises that pose a threat to regional stability and peace in Africa is considered to be a natural extension of our active foreign policy, which we are monitoring in the region and in general on the African continent. In this approach, I shall grant the Turkish Armed Forces a period of 2/8/2016 and 2/8/2016, which will be extended to 31/10/2018/2018, as part of the operations and missions carried out by the United Nations in Mali and Central African Republic, and the Constitutional Article 92 for the use of these forces under the rules to be determined. Government? Here. I will set up a meeting on behalf of the Prime Ministerial Court under Article 72 of the Civil Code; I will promise the groups, the government, and the two members on behalf of the person. The period of speech is 20 minutes each for groups and the government, ten minutes for individuals. I read the names of the members of the MPs who took over the counter: Antalya MP Mehmet Günal on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Ağrı MP Berdan Özturk on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Oğuz Kaan Salcı on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Rize MP Osman-san Bak on behalf of their members, Özturk Yilmalmaz and Mr. Metin Gündoğdu will speak. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I would like to call Mr. Mehmet Günal. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0148par0595	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. My dear friends, we are now discussing an extension of the decision on the deployment of Turkish Armed Forces in Mali and Central African Republic. As the National Movement Party, we've always talked to you about the fact that Turkey is a powerful state, and we've been following a multi-dimensional, social and cultural policy. In this scope, not only in Africa, but in other tasks, we have always supported the deployment of our Turkish Armed Forces in these international missions -- in favour of the United Nations and NATO -- taking into account our common historical values, cultural values, with many countries from the Middle East to Central Asia. In this case, I would like to start by saying that we find the continuation of this work useful under international multidimensional foreign policy. Dear friends, here, of course, a lot of technical needs have been determined by the Council of Ministers and presented to our House. Both its scope and its qualifications are already being determined, and our Turkish Armed Forces are already continuing this work. I'd like to take this opportunity, as my friends have just pointed out, to share with you our opinion on some of the issues that are on the agenda. First of all, we've all watched the European Parliament's decision recently, and here our friends have made statements, and the government's officials have made statements, but once again, it's a little bit of a double standard and a two-way attitude that we've all seen together, and we're all seeing the attitude from the past to today. What we've been saying all along is that this recommendation on EU relations is particularly relevant to the ongoing talks... I believe that tomorrow a delegation will visit our House and visit the party groups. We don't know what they're going to say again, but they've been discussing other versions of what they've been saying all along, what they call "privileged partnership," but similar decisions can come out of parliament in different ways when political debates flare up. We all remember that there have been decisions against Turkey in the parliaments of different countries before and also in the parliaments of different countries. This clearly shows that relationships need to be reconsidered. In all the talks, in our talks with EU officials, and again, in the talks in parliament, we have expressed a relationship that I have always referred to as "extreme engagement" over fifty-three years and into fifty-four years. This needs to be re-examined, and as the only country that has implemented the customs union without a member, I'm saying that these matters should be re-examined by the government, so as not to take up too much time. Because at this moment, it was also in the newspapers today, in some media outlets, where our foreign minister will assess the new process during his visit to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. I suppose they'll also consider how to proceed after these negotiations have been cut off. In short, I would like to share with you our view on this matter. We've been in favor of two-nation, two-state solutions from the beginning, and Mr. Secretary and the speakers have just mentioned it, but in fact, in the process, the Greek side is getting a little bit further. We don't say what happened at the negotiating table because of our sensitivities, but before they're seen, they're talking to the public about some maps, some compromises. Naturally, a public debate is underway. And since we don't know what the content is, we're always answering with a question mark. At a meeting with our friends at the Foreign Commission, with the Minister, we shared the busiest period of time. He's given us some information himself, but unfortunately, every time they step back, he's a buzzkill, but it's always from where he's left off, it's like he's an acquish. In this context, we need to say together: As a national foreign policy, we need to see that there are no guarantees and alliance rights, that there are no compromises, that we need to stick to these agreements, and that there is already an actual situation here. What we don't understand is that you divide all sides, you divide Iraq, you come Syria, you divide the Balkans, and yet you turn around and try to unite them in Cyprus. I mean, there's already a real state out there, and it's been going on since 1983. We need to sit in the new era and discuss our relations with Cyprus and discuss these exclusive economic zone agreements and other governments' drilling work in our domain and demonstrate Turkey's determination. On the other hand, a much warmer agenda is being discussed, a statement about the referendum of the Northern Iraqi Regional Administration in Iraq. Unfortunately, a lot of governments say the timing isn't appropriate, rather than the direct opposition, including the United States. So one or two countries that say, "Don't make this zinhar," they say with certain reservations. We have to be firm about it, and we need to be firm about it, and we need to be firm about it, and we need to say it's a red line, and we need to be firm about it. What's worse, let alone the cities in the Iraqi Constitution, the cities in which they're known, the cities of Kerukuk, including Telafer, in today's environment, ▪ Sir, we took them from the fictional organization DAEŞ. They say, "We will rule here." They say, "We will rule here." These are now conflicted areas, and they are also controversial according to the Iraqi Constitution. We don't really need to do much about it, dear friends, but when Musul is discussed from time to time, we refer immediately to the Treaty of Lausanne, but we do have the 1926 Treaty of Ankara that gives us a much stronger opportunity. If we look at the materials of that treaty leading to 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, Turkey has the right to intervene with the Iraqi government in the event of any criminal activity, robbery, or illegal activity going on here. We don't need much; if we want to show our determination, we have international legitimacy and legal rights. Likewise, in Syria, with recent developments -- just as friends were talking -- we see that some of them were brought to the final stage -- and quickly, without fighting, as if ISIS, DAEŞ, had been pulled out of certain areas -- no matter what you say -- and there was a study being made to form a so-called Kurdish region. Unfortunately, our allies are going to start calling it an ally, because they're still giving us those weapons, and they're probably just giving us the list, but we're looking at the transcripts that were captured outside those lists, and we're seeing them, we're seeing them, we're still seeing weapons coming from there being used against us, against our military, against our police, against our civilian citizens. For him, to be more serious in these matters, to be firmly established, beyond words, a national foreign policy, to strengthen Turkey's national security, its interests, to protect its national security, its interests, and to participate in efforts to preserve peace, as in the Task Force, and to maintain stability in our environment, and to establish new relations with neighbouring countries based on mutual respect, based on new relations, and to ensure that our country's rights and interests will always be supported by a fair, permanent policy that can be achieved in our territory. However, we believe that this should be shown decisively when it comes to it. In this context, I reiterate that foreign policy is a national issue, that we will support constructive matters. It also says that we look positively at the extension of his term, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit02spe0149par0610	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Congressmans, I'm taking a 40-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0149par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our talks with Prime Minister Number 1166. The government is in place. On the counter, and now on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Ağrı MP Berdan Ozturk will speak. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0150par0006	Thank you, Mr. President. Before I begin my speech, I salute the co-captains held hostage in prison, our paralegals, our co-chairs, our party managers, our constituents, journalists, sick prisoners, and every revolutionary, democratic prisoner within four walls under the tyranny of this state. Again, he salutes Nuriya and Semih, who are on hunger strike now in prison to get their jobs as lawful as their mother's white milk, and I would like to say once again that we are with them. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, on July 13, 1930, I condemn the massacre that took place in history as the Zilan massacre, and I honor and thank all our people who died in that massacre. The Zilan massacre is a crime against humanity, and the best Kurdish is a bloody document of the official opinion. Without facing these massacres, without a reckoning, no one will be able to justify to the Kurds because the collective memory of the Kurds will not accept a sealed legalization. The question remains: What has changed in terms of the Kurds after this massive massacre of 15,000 people, including human beings from all parts of the local population, including the babies in their mother's womb, which, according to official figures, had been massacred? What's really changed? What has changed is that we are no longer subject to mass murder. Smaller, more time-consuming systematic fracturing continues with all speed and majesty. The official view of the organization's ideology and ontology on anti-Kurdish anti-Kurdishism is no different from the Zilan massacre. And in those days, what the great states who are trying to create new subjects of the nation are trying to do and what the new states today are doing is a repeat of each other. Reproduction of official ideology in a neoliberal form. So, what should the Kurds do? What's wanted is for the Kurds to break their knees and settle for scraps to be given in their homes. What more do you want, you have everything. We're asked to understand schizophrenia under the words of Your Majesty. Yeah, well, since the Kurds were categorically encoded in the traditional codes of this state, there's always been resistance for them. Every resistance faced the great wrath of the state. This wrath, rightful, and legitimate resistance has used every means possible to destroy it. What's changed today? It's nothing, really. It is the start of a new restoration process called "Let's beat the Kurds one more time." So we're looking at the final version of the effort to restore the government to factory settings. We're standing in the middle of a big box office mistake using the same spatial plateaus as the 90-year script, but different actors. In fact, it would be a compliment to call it "mistake." It's an illusion, a great illusion. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, including Mr. President, the Prime Minister, all the AKP's staff, continue to carry on with a populist approach that provokes the feelings of the masses from HDP to DBP, by showing mercy to the Kurdish political movement, political philosophy, without leaving a gap, without breathing. Blaming our co-chairs on the label of terrorists, criminalizing our politics is exactly the kind of black propaganda I'm talking about. You're giving orders to a court of law that you're vehemently vehemently vehemently conducting mass arrests. You're exposing us with the side media hand. You think you're going to win this time with the spirit of mobilization and the words of the porter. There's nothing about winning or losing. There's a political and social problem in the middle that awaits a democratic and peaceful solution. The solution to this problem will win everyone. As dear Aysel Tugluk, who is now held hostage in prison, says, we have a war to lose for everyone, a peace question to win. Beyond that, more polarization, more conflict, more dissolution. By using all the possibilities of being in power to get away from democratic politics, using political and morally highly problematic methods and using us as political opponents, using police, judiciary and media as a boomerang influence, those who work with politics know very well that the attempt to liquidate has a boomerang effect. The struggle you claimed to have started against the custody system yesterday has become controversial with the masses itself. It's not even funny that you show it to us by taking out the stick that you've been hiding under every post you've won under the name Custody. More rants, more power, more hegemonia demand is also a serious deviant in itself. As a result of the situation, it is now a matter of trying to wipe out democratic politics, put opposition to the fullest. You want everyone, everything, everything, to follow your coding, to serve your power mentality. Otherwise, it's obvious that everything else, every expression, every action is declared illegitimate, considered illegal, criminalized, and then put in the dungeon. There has never been a time when universal politics and law norms have been bent and bent in such a way according to your interests and your power. As they say, even the universe did not think this far. Taking the human rights memorial into custody and closing it with barriers, I think it would be something the deceased would want to do if he thought about it. "All strategies for absolute victory for absolute power continue to collapse inside and out of the walls. After every failure out there, it's turned into a huge siege that targets political, legal, moral and moral principles and opponents without measure. You're trying to take away the pain of your failure in Syria and Mosul from whoever opposes you inside. And assuredly We have warned you of that which befell you. We've said over and over again that the path from the platforms, from the squares, from the televisions, from the media, from the organs of the press, can't be the way. Anything we say that will build this country's future, restore peace, pave the way for democratic politics, is being turned into a tool for prosecutions, indictments, and liquidation. We've been sentenced to decades in prison over false arguments, hand-held indictments. Why? Because it's what the glory wants. The history and political science tells us where to go with the phobia of the Kurds, who built their own destiny on our liquidation. We just want you to remember once more. Mr. President, after Kobani, we can talk about two basic strategies that conflicted in Syria. One strategy was the strategic depth line, which said to the Emevi Mosque, because of its zeal to pray, to organize Islamist radicals and provide all kinds of logistical support, to be behind the wheel. This line has now been defeated in Syria, in Mosul, or in the Middle East, with a bill. The second line is the democratic, pluralist, democratic communist line that embraces the understanding of governance from place and place, where everyone is represented by its own color and power. This line gradually gives color to the entire Middle East, adopted by the peoples, carrying great potential for solutions to problems. At this point, a paradigm that could be a drug to the Middle East, a paradigm that could solve problems without blood, would be cut off with all kinds of dirty alliances, and again open the way for a major war. On one hand, threatening statements against the independence referendum by southern Kurdistan, on the other hand, stacks to the border for a possible attack on Afrin. Look who's living in these geographys and trying to decide their own destiny. The Kurds, of course, are brothers who were divided into four pieces a hundred years ago, each in their own part exposed to every policy of oppression, difficult and exploitation of sovereign states. What are we supposed to do, ignore the demands of our brothers and our people? " Sit down, where you sit, and your elders there will do whatever is best for you. " Of course, we will support their demand for independence unconditionally. Of course, we're going to say that their ruling themselves in a democratic communist line is a legitimate demand like the white milk of their mothers. That's what the public chose us for. The people didn't send us to Parliament so we could pledge our allegiance to the comfort of this place and forget why we came. We're asked to do politics by denying our own reasons for coming. This is denial of democratic politics. You can do politics with such denial to take over the state, and we will continue to address our people's demands until the end. You "keep clinging to the motto of the public order, which the 12th Septemberers put into the language of the establishment. Everyone now sees the shallowness of your deep strategies, which you're trying to sell through sensory operations, by taking this motto, which is the basis of September 12th, which has been repeated and repeated tirelessly. At the longest MGK meeting, "unsolvedness is also a solution. The strategy set up its main roof on the completion of the solution process and then the reconstruction of the impact dynamic. Even the simplest claim is now used for the consolidation of this dynamic. Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. Erdogan and the AKP government are not tired of repeating themselves, but I think with recent statements, the period of coverage of the policy that he has now given up is actually over. In fact, these words, which have not been incomplete since the founding of the Republic of Turkey, have no sense of a more integrated group, so let's take them in and compare them to ourselves, re-upgrading their rhetoric and putting them in front of us. The most important thing you have to accept is that Kurds are a people, Kurds are a nation, and is one of the oldest peoples in Mesopotamia. We're on the verge of a new century in which everyone can share their rights to sovereignty in their own language and color on their own soil. There's no way this could be blocked by security policies, military operations, difficult methods of oppression. From this point of view, there is no objective and subjective response to internalization politics. Corruptions and efforts to eliminate corruption in political institutions with the possibilities of finger democracy do nothing more than show the masses that the king is naked every day. I don't know who's proud of you with stadium literature and freedom of thought and expression. We're proud of you. We're proud of you. Finishing with symmetry is not enough for consolidation. Mr. President, they say that good lawmakers are the way of the mind. Yes, the way of the mind is one, and there is no other way but to find this path, the path that leads to us. It's obvious what to do about it. You can make a good start by releasing all the friends you've arrested with political genocide operations immediately. I'm saying that by putting an end to the isolation imposed on Mr. Ocalan, his lawyers and his family should open the door and open the doors to a new era of Dolmabahçe understanding, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0151par0024	Thank you. Mr. Ozturk, during your speech, you have used several words such as taking a hostage, taking a prisoner, or political genocide. The word "treshold" is meant to be a prisoner taken by the enemy during the war. We also know what a genocide is. Mr. Ozturk, there is no war in this country, there is a war on terror in this country. If you show your sensitivity in the fight against terrorism, you don't use such a segregation language. I wanted to make that clear.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0152par0027	Mr. President, really, the speaker's speech on the stand is a speech that he can express as he pleases. Is there any...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0151par0028	So I said my thoughts.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0152par0029	But if you speak your mind about each speaker, then you will not be acting as an impartial Speaker. That's what I wanted to remind you with kindness.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0151par0030	So I said my thoughts. See, Article 94 of the Constitution and Article 64 of the Civil Code gives me this authority. This is the stand of the Republic of Turkey, so let's not use this segregation language here.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0152par0031	Eight-and-a-half months of trial day, a wife with an unscheduled date, she's on trial, she's probably being held hostage.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0151par0032	As we always say, both Kurds and Turks are citizens of this country, but the problem here is the fight against terrorism, not the Kurds. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Oğuz Kaan Salcı will speak. Here you go, Mr. Salici.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0153par0036	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the deployment of soldiers to Mali and Central Africa. But, of course, before today's reviews, you know, there's been a lot of talk about the state of emergency. I'd like to say a few words about the state of emergency. One of them, an AKP MP, wrote a column in a newspaper today. In that column, he made it clear to a former minister sitting next to him in the protocol of the July 15th memorial. Some of the people who were in the front row were in fact members of the group, or members of the group, and we knew the last of the British Reporters Society, but it seems that the members of the group have been established -- says your MP himself. Therefore, I hope that this MP will take into account the party's leadership and the judiciary and make the necessary arrangements for whoever they are. Now, my dear friends, we have a dissertation. Of course, he's telling us what to do in the United Nations framework for what our soldier should be doing there. But, of course, there are some sentences in the statement sent to Parliament, if you'd like me to read a few headlines from it. The aims of the thesis are described as: "The assurance of human rights and incentives are the main tasks to support the protection of cultural beings through humanitarian activities." Now, since 2002, there has been a power, a single ruling Turkey, and this government's human rights report card is broken. So, he says, in the framework of the United Nations, we will send troops to Mali (Fali) and Central Africa to build and encourage human rights. Now, Mr. Minister of Defence is here, and I will ask him: Is our Mehmetçik, who will go there, will make a sincere effort to do what your government has done with human rights since 2002, or will it really make a sincere effort to establish human rights and human rights there? They've had 15 years of experience since 2002, and if they're going to act like it, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, if they're going to act like it, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. Second, there is talk of the protection of cultural assets. Friends, I'm the Istanbul MP, and the last time, during the Marmaray excavations, Istanbul's known history went back eight, five hundred years, because of the historical artifacts found there. But political power, Prime Minister of Justice and Development Party, Marmaray, said that his work had lasted four years, saying: "We have delayed the Marmaray investment for three or five pots. Now, will our soldiers go there with three or five pots of pottery logic, or should those countries, whatever cultural presence is there, the cultural presence of that geography, be treated to him properly, as they should be. Now, dear friends, today we're going to find an assessment of the general foreign policy of the Justice and Development Party. One of them is that the Justice and Development Party has a problem and has created it for Turkey; we actually make all kinds of assessments in domestic policy a product of foreign policy, or we make any problem that arises in foreign policy an object of domestic policy. Remember, we had a referendum process, and in that referendum process, there was nothing more than opposition parties or parties that said no. One of them was a crisis between us and the Netherlands -- I don't want to go into the details of that crisis -- the crisis in the Netherlands or the issue between Germany and Turkey. Now, such foreign policy does not give Turkey anything. Something similar happened in the case Some of our friends say that foreign policy and domestic policy are organic, dependent on each other. True, yes, but if you're using an issue that you've lived in foreign policy to suppress your opposition in domestic policy, then if you're taking on a problem that has happened in foreign policy directly and you don't see it as a national issue and you use it to lower the voice of your opponents in domestic policy, then there's no great reason why it's working together with foreign policy and domestic policy. Diplomats meet, politicians meet, agree in certain places, disagree in certain places, but if you make enemies of people, nations, people, people, it takes a long time for those people to come back to a normal sisterhood line, and we have serious problems about it. Another is written by the Justice and Development Party. In his written texts, the European Union is good; the rule of law is good; human rights are needed; Turkey -- and just as Mr. Secretary has spoken about the previous thesis -- prosperity, security generation, peace environment -- Mr. Minister, when this government was established on this bench, Mr. Prime Minister -- at that time, said: "We will increase our friends, reduce our enemies." Look, just after the Qatar crisis, we had three or four other distinguished enemies - Bahrain, United Arab Emirates -- I'll count more -- Saudi Arabia. So, what happened? The United States encouraged countries to impose embargoes against Qatar. He encouraged it. As a result of that encouragement, eight or nine countries in different parts of the world and in distant geography have brought to the point of breaking ties with Qatar. He turned around and went to the United States and signed a $16 billion plane deal with Qatar. He learned about this $16 billion aircraft deal when our Minister of Foreign Affairs went to Qatar. Before that, the United States signed a total of $280 billion deals with Saudi Arabia, including $110 billion in military dollars. Now we are the ones who sent soldiers to Qatar, and we are the ones who put the lives of our own soldiers at risk. For what do we do this in return? We ask the question, there is no answer from power. We've asked in the Commission, we've asked in Parliament. What is the strategic interest of Turkey's foreign policy in the world, and what is the strategic interest of Turkey? There's no answer to that, but there are thirteen substances that are being introduced to eliminate this embargo. Among these 13 articles, one of them is the closure of the military base near Turkey. The military base isn't set up yet. The military base is under construction. There are about 200 soldiers from Turkey. Well, that's why it's agenda number one. So we don't have good dialogue with Egypt anyway. So what is the logic of layering Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, United Arab Emirates, Yemen, and other countries? One. Second: What countries have Turkey's friendship increased after Mr. Bali Yıldırım became Prime Minister? I'm asking from here. I count my enemies. That's easy. If you turn it to the right, it's the enemy, turn it to the left. Unfortunately, it's become such a foreign policy. If a valued Justice and Development Party MP or minister came and explained the question, we would be delighted.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0154par0043	Katar, Katar.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0153par0044	Dear friends, what was one of the main points of the Qatar crisis? One of the main points of the Qatar crisis is that the countries that employ embargos, Qatar ▪ Break off relations with terrorist organisations. They don't just mean ISIS, Al Qaeda, or PKK or any other names, they basically mean Ihvan. Now, let's talk about Ihvan. Who's Ihvan, guys? Muslim Brothers in Turkish. Where is Ihvan now considered an acceptable organization? He himself declared to the world that he had distanced himself from Hamas Ihvan, a part of him. Now he's trying to explain how sincere that declaration was. Gannushi, one of the main elements of Ihvan, distanced himself from Ennahda Ihvan, says that our path is no longer the same. In a few days, shortly after the crisis began, Qatar asked for a few of Ihvan's leading members to leave the country. Guys, who's left? There's Turkey. Other than Turkey, there is no one who has claimed him as a political organisation, a legitimate, democratic political organization. Now, let's see what Ihvan wants. Ihvan wants a full democracy? Ihvan wants everyone to live in peace? Ihvan is fighting for the rule of law? What is Ihvan fighting for? What is he fighting for that matches the basic values of the Republic of Turkey, Ihvan? What does that tell us about the Justice and Development Party program? Somebody get out there and tell me about it, guys. We have brought the main axis of our foreign policy, and we have placed Ihvan. One of the reasons why we fought with Egypt is because of Ihvan, one of the reasons why we sided in the Gulf countries, Ihvan, if it wasn't natural gas and other money that came out of it, I'm telling you the obvious reason. Well, friends, we know that the founders of the Justice and Development Party also have an ideological brotherhood with Ihvan, but you look back on the other side, the Justice and Development Party executives are always talking about nationalism and domesticity. What part of Ihvan is a national friend, and what part of Ihvan is a native? What part of following an Ihvan-based foreign policy has something to do with the interests of the Republic of Turkey? For God's sake, somebody come and tell me. I'm also asking parties who support this foreign policy, who define themselves as nationalists, what's national about supporting this foreign policy? Another thing: Mr. Minister knows, the Foreign Affairs Commission recently received an agreement with Spain, an aircraft carrier we can also call the first aircraft carrier of Turkey -- its military name is a little different, but let's call it an aircraft carrier -- to build in Turkey, Spain to support it. Now, there's one interesting thing about the deal. First, it's important to Turkey. Why? This is the first time Turkey has had an aircraft carrier that F35 planes can land on it. The plane's range is the Indian Ocean, Atlantic Ocean. In the matter of military requirements, commanders from the National Ministry of Defence tried to give information, not very successful, but we've learned the truth of the matter. Now, dear friends, you've made the tender, three companies have entered the tender. One of them says, "I'm going to co-operate with China, and I'm going to build this carrier." Another says, "There's a ship in Spain called Juan Carlos-I. I'm going to do the same thing, it's going to be called Anadolu." Another says: "We're going to build a ship with 100 Turkish designs a hundred percent. Now, what do you think the government will do with all its power, all politics, a foreign policy based on nationality and locality?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0155par0050	One hundred percent local.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0153par0051	Right?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0155par0052	Yes, but Mr. Fikri wouldn't do that.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0153par0053	He went to the Spaniards. The Spaniards... the company in Turkey has its secrets, and the company in Spain has its secrets... Look, dear friends, we don't tell you to expand Turkey's fleet. But we say: "Do this right." They used to say: "We do international work, we make big investments." But someone's name was 10 percent. I mean, you guys do good work, but isn't it possible to do this job without 10% of the time? I mean, isn't it possible to do these things without having other relationships to get Turkey a fleet of marines? It's possible. What happens when we say that? The opposition does not want Turkey to gain military power, does not want an aircraft carrier. You built the bridge, you made two. As of today, someone tell me how much money you've lost. We told you to build a proper bridge that didn't hurt. Unfortunately, you failed. We're experiencing something similar in foreign policy. Dear friends, the intention of intervening in the Turkish Republic's Qatar crisis, let's finish this work by the festival. The words pronounced at the highest level remain in the air. Why is he hanging in the air? Because Turkey needs to be a trusted partner between the two sides, a trusted partner, so that both sides can have confidence in intermediary. Now, when we take on some of the countries, they have no faith in us. Turkey has long since mediated no international crisis, my friends. Why? Many countries in international policy now see Turkey as an unreliable partner -- many countries that are allied -- genius. There is a certain business with Turkey, but let's discuss how far it is done. Now, I'd like to bring up an issue that Mr. Secretary is also in charge of, and that's the S-400 missiles that only the Minister is talking about. Now, the S-400 missiles are related to our air defense system. We don't have our own air defense system right now. For some time there has been a negotiation with Russia in this air defence system. The S-400 air defence system is being taken to Turkey, the transfer of technology, the production of it in Turkey, a series of talks involving these issues. One of the things the Minister insists on is an investment in Turkey and a transfer of the knowledge-how. Is that right, Minister? In recent negotiations with the Chinese air defence system, similar things were said. Now, dear friends, let's take a look at the matter: Turkey is a NATO country. Whether we like it or not, Turkey is now a NATO country under written agreements. Our commanders go and train in NATO. Question number one: when a NATO country takes the S-400 missile defense system, deploys its own country, I put aside the issues that Mr. Secretary put first, no matter what the price, investment or other issues. Let's look at it politically. Is it possible that when he takes the S-400s, he uses them, or puts them in Turkey, that the relationship between Turkey and NATO, which is not already bright, will be worse, or won't it? That's one. We already have enough problems with the European Union, with the United States, with NATO, with many other countries I can count and count. Does that cause a new crisis? Two: NATO is a military alliance that encoded Russia as an enemy or rival or whatever you want to call it. Our planes, our F-16. Our planes in NATO, see each other as friends, so Greece is under NATO umbrella, and there are 28 other countries, including 29 other countries, including us, who consider each other friendly in air defence. If we don't give the S-400's source codes to NATO, or NATO won't give us any special privileges about this -- in case there's any improvement, Mr. Secretary -- then won't the S-400s that we're going to deploy to Turkey not see the F--16 ▪ as enemies in our country, because they won't consider our own planes as enemies because they don't use those source codes? Another: Is there another example of this in NATO? Yeah, that's a lot to say, Greece. Yes, in Greece, there are S-300, we have S-400. So, when did Greece get these S-300? In the 90s. What was the concept of air defence in NATO in the 90s? There was a concept of defense based on the field of action. After the 2010 Lisbon Agreement, what did NATO's defence concept become? All NATO countries have turned into common defence systems. You remember, there were constantly missiles falling from Syria, and Patriots came to Turkey to prevent those missiles from falling. What frame did the Patriots come in? This came within the framework of NATO cooperation. Now, we're not opposed to Turkey having its own air defence system, but we need to see, friends, as long as we don't get past the concrete questions that existed during the talks on China, as long as we don't eliminate the concerns of NATO, the concerns of America, someone else, the concerns about the future of this country, as long as we don't eliminate them, it won't be easy for us to make those decisions unless we have a new crisis, a new conflict, a new challenge, a new challenge. Well, have you guys ever seen Mr. Secretary come and share with the House any scraps of what he's explained to the press under the roof of this great House? Has there been a sentence about the S-400, a sentence about the S-300? Has there ever been a statement about negotiations with China? This is the Veteran Assembly, we all remember July 15th together. Why did we remember? You were there when the bombing happened, and we were here. Can you imagine, Minister, that we came here on the 15th of July so you could continue to do the Ministry? We're not here to protect you, we're here to protect the country, we're here together. We've all fought together under the roof of this environment. If it's national foreign policy, if it's the country's interests, these matters need to be discussed around here, dear friends. These are not issues that can be changed from today to tomorrow, which can be negotiated from today to tomorrow. See, in Turkey, there used to be, for example, the ruling-migration, the parties of that time, they would sit down, they would agree, they would plot a course, it would become state policy, so it would become what we call national foreign policy. Has Turkey's view of the European Union changed since 1960, friends? It hasn't changed. We want to become full members with his power and opposition. We're all defending our interests in Cyprus together, but we're defending it in our own words, and you're defending it in other sentences. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You've made foreign policy so much that we no longer have to discuss the interests of our own country, but the things that your government has done, and therefore we feel no shame. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0156par0066	Thank you, Mr. Salici. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Rize MP Osman Love Bak will speak. Here you go, Mr. Bak.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0157par0070	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Turkish Armed Forces to be sent abroad as part of the operations and missions carried out by the United Nations in Mali and Central African Republic, and to be used by the Turkish Parliament for the use of these forces under the framework of the Supreme Assembly 2/8/2016 and 1119, on behalf of the Turkish Parliament's 2/8/2017, and on behalf of the Council of Ministers for the 2/10/10/2018. I salute your high council and our beloved nation. During the coup attempt launched by the terrorist organization on the night of July 15, 2016, I pray for God's mercy on our gas 2,193 in the first year of the heroic resistance to these terrorists dressed as soldiers and the death of 249 martyrs. On the night of July 15th, our beloved nation, running to the squares at the call of our President, has shown the world that this nation can never be brought to its knees, that the oppressed cannot be silenced, that this country cannot be divided, that the national will cannot be eliminated. Our nation had written epically that night, that the power of the nation was defeated by the power of the tank, that our nation had struck the coupgers. I'd like to thank all the political party officials, members of our Veterans Congress, patriotic members of the Turkish Armed Forces, our law enforcement forces, who wrote the July 15th saga. Dear lawmakers, the United Nations Security Council's decision dated April 25, 2013 and the establishment of the multi-dimensional Multi-dimensional Computation Mission in the Fiscal Office was unanimous. The United Nations Multi-dimensional Stability Mission, the United Nations Security Council's mandate, which was finalized on June 29, 2015 and on 2227, is to provide stability in the country, support for the ceasefire process, monitor and control the road map, support for the national political dialogue process, support for the UN personnel and civil rights, and support for the protection of human rights, humanitarian aid activities and cultural entities, and support for the immediate and serious UN Stabilisation of the United Nations Intervention Mission, the UN's Secretary of the United Nations has been able to intervene in this situation, in order. On the other hand, the United Nations Stabilisation Mission was established in the Central African Republic with the UN Security Council's Decision, April 10, 2014, and Resolution 2149. In the mandate of the multi-dimensional Stability Mission of the United Nations, there are issues such as protecting civilians within the scope of opportunities and deployment, identifying and registering threats against civilians, contributing to the functioning of political life in the country's transition process and the establishment of state authority in the country, protecting the country's territorial integrity, facilitating humanitarian aid, protecting and promoting human rights and supporting the country's relocations, and supporting reform efforts to restore security in the Central African Republic. The United Nations has invited our country to participate in the missions in question. The summit for Peacekeeping, held during the 70th General Assembly of the United Nations talks, also requested that our country contribute to the UN missions. Dear lawmakers, one of the founding members of the United Nations and members of many European organisations, particularly NATO, Turkey, have built the foundations of its security policy on cooperation and partnership policy. In this sense, Turkey continues to contribute to the country's territorial integrity, collective defence and crisis management operations in order to preserve international peace and stability, while increasing its international co-operation on a global scale to contribute to stability, increasingly highlights its sense of security based on partnership, dialogue and soft power. As part of the policy of cooperation and partnership, Turkey is still participating in the campaign and mission of supporting peace under the umbrella of the United Nations and under the umbrella of the European Union, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in Liberia, in South Sudan, in Ivory Coast and Darfur, and in Kosovo, in Kosovo, in Afghanistan, and in the Mediterranean, under the umbrella of the European Union. We also continue to contribute under our policy to sea operations against sea bandits and piracy that are concentrated in the Gulf of Aden and Somalia. Dear lawmakers, as you know, Turkey, which began in 1998, has now replaced Africa's opening policy with African partnership policy. Our African partnership policy includes assisting the plant of peace and stability on the continent; helping political, economic, and social development; to this end political, economic, commercial, humanitarian aid, restructuring, security, public diplomacy and mediation. The military contribution to the solution of human and political crises that pose a threat to regional stability and peace in Africa also constitutes a requirement of our policy and aims to resolve problems for the welfare of the people of the region as soon as possible. As part of the African partnership policy, our country has opened ambassadorships in 39 African countries, many in the last five or six years, and 33 African countries have embassies in our country. What we're getting at is how fast our bilateral political relations are increasing. We've made great progress together from development partners to political dialogue mechanisms, from education and cultural activities to economic co-operation, from trade volume to investments, from contractor services to substructures. When we talk about Africa, we talk about over a billion people. If we think that many of these countries will join the middle-term middle-income countries, we can better understand the importance of the continent for us. Indeed, Africa has become the world's center of attention again with its remarkable progress in social, economic and political areas today. From the great transformation of the African continent, we are very happy as Turkey. The West and East Africa tours carried out by our president in 2016 and 2017, with numerous delegations, are also an important part of our vision. We've always seen African people as our friends, our friends, our destiny. Although our languages, values, ethnic origins, and external appearance were different, we felt that we were passengers of the same ship as Africa. We've always admired the ancient civilisation of the African continent. We were not the political, strategic, profit-oriented ministers of Africa, we were always drawn to human, conscientious evil. Even at this stage, we all see the importance of Africa's role in our country's foreign policy and international arena in the coming period. Therefore, it is important to maintain stability on the continent in order for our long-term plans to be healthy. It was at the centre of Turkey's foreign policy that African countries could be independent, free, peaceful and secure and have the right to appoint their own destinations. Since 2011 in particular, our country has adopted itself as a political actor with its approach to problems in the African continent. Our deep and comprehensive efforts and contributions to the region and domestic peace in Somalia began in the 1990s are the clearest example of this. Our policies, specifically described as silent diplomacy, have given Turkey both land experience and continent dignity. From this point of view, it is imperative that our country observe its appearance, its recognition, and its presence in the region. Turkey has previously supported countries such as Liberia, Sudan, Ivory Coast, however small. Such turnouts may be the ideal way for Turkey to improve its operational activity and knowledge of the continent in terms of developments in the land. The military contribution to the solution of human and political crises in the Mali and Central African Republic, which pose a threat to regional stability and peace in Africa, will increase our country's appearance in the international community by creating a natural extension of our active foreign policy in the region and in general in the African continent. On the other hand, peace support and protection operations remain one of the most important tools the international community has in maintaining international peace and stability. One of the main goals of our foreign policy is to contribute to the establishment and strengthening of peace and stability in our country and the world. Peacekeeping operations are seen as a legitimate method of carrying out this purpose. Our country, which actively strives to participate in almost every dimension of the United Nations system, plays a role in international peace and stability activities under the United Nations, which helps boost our effectiveness in international policy. Dear lawmakers have undermined the efforts of financial insecurity, financial government and international partners to strengthen the rule of law and provide basic health services, education and humanitarian assistance. The ongoing conflicts between the Central and North Mali have affected many people, and they are exploited by terrorist groups to gain new members. In this framework, the end of the conflict environment in Mali and the Central African Republic is important in order to prevent these problems from happening to other countries. As a matter of fact, when it comes to the geographical positions of the two countries, it is thought that instability here will also strengthen terrorist organisations in the Sahara and the Sahel region. As for Libya, the development of power in the region suggests that the problems that may occur in this region could pose an important threat to us as well. In this respect, it is believed that the contributions to MINUSMA in FALSE and MINUSCA forces in the Central African Republic will benefit from our country's support for strengthening its governments against terrorist organizations, as well as that it will benefit from our fight against all kinds of terrorism and our relations with regional countries. It's possible to consider the dissertation we're negotiating from a different point of view. In addition to my role as head of the Turkish delegation of NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I am the special correspondent of the Science and Technology Commission in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly on food and water safety in the Middle East and North Africa. As noted in my report on this issue in June, problems such as terrorist attacks, arms smuggling and the use of weapons and weapons of mass destruction have caused security problems in the region since 2010 in the Middle East and North Africa region. In many countries in the region, clean water per capita and plantable areas are very low, causing food and water shortages. Food and water safety in countries in the region is of great importance in maintaining and maintaining the stability of the region. Food and water security cause migrations, causes intergovernmental discrepancies, and human crises occur in countries in this region. Such humanitarian crises require the intervention of the international community. In this regard, there appears to be a close relationship between food and water security and international security. In this framework, I think it would be helpful to approach instability in the Central African Republic and the financial community with the importance of the issues that I just referred to. I wish you well on behalf of our country and the Turkish Armed Forces, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0158par0086	Thank you, Mr. Bak. Members of parliament, the talks of groups on Prime Ministerial Proposition (3/1166) have ended. Now, we'll listen to the MPs speaking on behalf of their people. Ardahan MP Özturk Yilmaz will speak first. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0159par0093	Mr. President, we're going to vote positively for the government's thesis on operational missions facing the Mali and Central African Republics. We support the involvement of the state of the Republic of Turkey in these missions. On this occasion, I would like to address relations with the European Union, one of the things that has come up recently and has kept us most occupied. When the late Ozal applied for full membership in the European Union in 1987, he said it was a thin road, because he was aware of it. The extent of the European Union's acquisitor, its continued development and the situation and position that Turkey was in at that time, he knew it would be a very long process, a very ups and downs and downs, and he described it as a realist approach. In 1999, you know, our candidacy was approved. The date for the start of the talks was made in 2004, and the negotiating framework document was signed in 2005. At that time, the talks would end in Ankara. There were celebrations. The negotiating framework document contained provisions not only that negotiations would be held at the time, but that there would be no negotiations. Why? Because the process was going to be open, so it was not known how long it would go on. Five years, ten years, twenty years, a hundred years. Two: The result was unpredictable, so even if you did all things, even if you did all things, it could not be guaranteed that you would become a member, and at that time it was seen as a victory, conjunctural celebrations were celebrated in Ankara. Now comes a critical threshold in the European Union process. The anti-Turkish, which we have heard before, especially in Europe, islasophobic elements that can't digest our culture have come to the centre of the European Union over time. Now they're in the center and they're in the center of politics, they're in the parliament. When Sarkozy comes to Turkey's membership, we will give a different status. When it is said, those who opposed it were the majority. When Merkel said similar things -- separate partnership, instead of full membership -- then the main body in Europe was against it again, but at the moment, as of this point, they were weak, but now that Turkey had taken democratic steps, the autocratic developments inside, antidemocratic developments, Turkey's problems with the European Atlantic institutions began to add more sides to Turkey's movement, and therefore in the European Union, not full membership in Turkey, but as of a separate status or a second-class status. See, in the last year and especially after the coup attempt, full membership is no longer discussed. What's the debate? Turkey is talking about a package that can allow it to sit in such a second class. We see an effort to give Turkey another status instead of full membership. Look, I'd like to talk to you about a few elements. Where do they want to draw Turkey? They say: "Let's not be full members, what's the point?" Whether it's a package, whether it's foreign policy issues, security policy, we'll update the customs union. We, you know, the customs union includes industrial goods, not agriculture or services. So let's move the customs union towards industrial goods to services and agricultural products. It's called. It's about refugees and refugees. So let's cooperate on this, and let's make it an element of the package. What else? Let's support some programs -- especially human rights -- such as Jean Monnet, and Erasmus -- and civil society initiatives, fund Turkey as an acquistor, support Turkey, support Turkey's democratic development. Why? Because if Turkey applied today, it would become a country that couldn't afford the Copenhagen Criters. It's this package, there's a couple of cultural projects in it, but it's starting a process that leads Turkey to a second-rate membership. Now, in Europe, it has been strengthened by those who want it, but there is no EU energy left in Turkey. We have an EU Ministry, which has become the EU's exit ministry, not the EU's entry, but the EU's exit ministry. And so is the European Union; there is a reporter, who should be a reporter for progress with Turkey, but it's as if Turkey was a reporter to stop progress with the European Union, a reporter to stop negotiations with Turkey. However, we would like to point out that the European Union has a will to take relations away. Why? The European Union never wants to leave Turkey, nor does it want to become a member. He wants to keep it at arm's length because he fears that Turkey, as in Russia's example, is becoming a Russian in autocratic sense, and he fears that the President is again putting it in the autocratic sense. And then the relationship system collapses this time. Now, I personally have a suggestion as someone who's worked in the EU, spent five years there, who knows a little bit about this acquish. These relationships are bumpy, today's bad, tomorrow's gonna be fine. This has always been the case with other member states, but unfortunately, the negotiating framework document at the time today is tying Turkey's hands and won't allow it to move forward. In such a case, as soon as you start the process that leads to this second-rate relationship system with the EU, it will mean that you are essentially accepting it in the future. It's a trap. So let's talk to Turkey about refugees, we'll talk about fighting terrorism, we'll talk about foreign policy, we'll talk about security policy, we'll talk about energy, but let's not talk about negotiation. We don't think Turkey should be on its side. He must never, ever give up full membership. That kind of talk of absorption in the EU process, all of which are already enemies to us, these are Turkish enemies, Muslim enemies, and all of that... that's not going to get us anything. We have to have this relationship. Why do we have to? Because the European Union is a place with 500 million people, where there's technology, we have to have this relationship, we have to have business, tourism, we have to invest. If Turkey wants to develop, if it wants to grow, it has to have good relations with all sides. We must maintain full membership perspective. I just want to say one last thing. The same thing continues with other geography. See, you can't run in the Middle East without having a proper relationship with the United States, you have to adapt at a certain point. But we see that there is no effort, and that effort must be made. All of the difficulties stem from Turkey's operation into its inner democracy. When our hands are weak, everyone can walk on you inside and out. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0160par0109	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Now, on behalf of the government, the Minister of National Defense, Mr. Fikri Ik will speak. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0161par0113	Mr. President, the most valuable MPs are the members of the Turkish Armed Forces, who have returned to your presence on the basis of the UN's Fiscal and Central African Republic, on the basis of the Admissions and Delegation, and on behalf of the Government and the Use of these Forces, I salute you all on the basis of the Admission of the Constitution by warning you to use these forces. The first of the missions that constituted the thesis was the Fiscal Multi-dimensional Integrated Stability Mission MINUSMA, which was carried out by the United Nations Security Council on April 25, 2013, and was carried out by the 2100. The mandate of the mission was extended until June 30, 2018, with the UN Security Council's decision dated 29 June 2017. THE MINUSMA mission was formed to support and contribute to the country's political process and to ensure security as a result of the worsening security situation in the financial community in 2013. The main tasks under MINUSMA have been described as maintaining stability in the country, supporting, monitoring and monitoring the ceasefire process, implementing the peace process road map, providing support for the national political dialogue process, protecting UN personnel and civilians, securing human rights and supporting the protection of cultural entities. Mr. President, the second mission that constitutes the subject of the thesis is MINUSCA, a multidimensional Integration Mission of Central African Republic, which was established in the Central African Republic of Central Africa by the United Nations Security Council's Resolution 2149 on April 10, 2014. The mission's mandate was extended until November 15, 2017, on July 26, 2016, when the United Nations Security Council issued its ruling 2301. The mission was created by the rise of violence in the Central African Republic, ethnic and religious conflicts in 2013, as security and human situation in the country deteriorated. The mission, whose primary goal was to protect civilians in the growing conflict and violence of the Central African Republic, was stated in the presentation of the thesis, and our friends just stressed that. The United Nations has invited our country to participate in the missions in question. In addition, our country has been asked to contribute to the UN missions during the 70th General Assembly talks at the Peacekeeping Summit. Mr. President, valued lawmakers were declared on September 28, 2015, as part of the United Nations General Assembly talks, as part of the US President's office in New York, where we are represented at the Prime Minister's Summit of Peacekeeping Leaders, with 5 headquarters officers assigned by our country at the headquarters of MINUSMA or MINUSCA missions, as part of our commitments to provide a transport aircraft to be used. Our African partnership policy includes aiding the establishment of peace and stability on the continent, political, economic and social development, and freeing political, economic, commercial, humanitarian aid, restructuring, security, public diplomacy and mediation. In Africa, contributing to the solution of human and political crises that pose a threat to regional stability and peace is also a requirement of our country's policy, and the goal is to resolve problems quickly for the welfare of the people of the region. As part of our African policy, Turkey follows a policy to ensure territorial integrity and national unity of the Republic of Mali and Central Africa, a successful outcome of national reconciliation efforts, a return to democratic order, political stability and sustainable economic development. In addition, military relations include military training and military aid to the continents in accordance with bilateral agreements. Military personnel from African countries participate in courses and training activities performed in Turkey. Ending the conflict environment in the Mali and Central African Republic is important in the sense that these problems do not concern other countries. As a matter of fact, when it comes to the geographical positions of the two countries, it is thought that instability here will also strengthen terrorist organisations in the Sahara Sahel region. The fact that the DEA is gaining power in Libya leads us to believe that the problems that may occur in this region may pose a significant threat to us as well. In this respect, it is thought that the contributions to MINUSMA in FALSE and MINUSCA forces in the Central African Republic will be positive for our fight against terrorist organizations, as well as for our relations with countries in the region. Mr. President, it is also a strategic priority for Turkey, a country of Afro-Avrasian origin from the Ottoman Empire to the present day, to take part in a new African policy that has entered a new era in harmony with the facts of the 21st century. The military contribution by our country to the solution of human and political crises that pose a threat to regional stability and peace in Africa is consistent with its approach to our country's efforts to promote peace, as well as a natural extension of our active foreign policy, which we are monitoring in the region and in general in the African continent. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been particularly anxious to respond to some of the evaluations of the speakers who were just speaking here. First of all, we don't think it's right for any MP in this parliament to say such things as "rehin," "tutsak," "war." (APPLAUSE) Not only as a Minister of this government, but also as a member of this great Assembly, we would like to remind everyone that Turkey is a state of law, that everything is run by rules in the state of law, that it is now in prison as a result of the judicial decisions of those mentioned, and that we hope and hope that they will be found not guilty, and that they will be free again within the framework of the law. See, Turkey is one with 80 million people, together with Turkey, together we are Turkey. In this country, no citizen has any advantage over another citizen. The deed to this country is an equal partnership of 80 million. At this point, any segregated language, any poisonous language is the language that must be rejected. In this country, we have to form not discrimination, but unity, containment, together, as a common expression and an attitude.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0162par0124	I hope so.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0161par0125	It's just that the word that works for terrorist organizations has never been useful to anyone in this country, and it doesn't come back to this day. Look, this country has such a strong emotional integrity that in the fight against terrorism that has been going on for nearly 40 years, someone has also set out to tear this country apart emotionally. Someone wanted people in Turkey to be enemies, people to be emotionally separated, enemies to one another, but, praise be to God, no one has been able to do that for 40 years, and I believe that they will never succeed again. Many events have repeatedly revealed how powerful brotherhood is in this country. The last time, on the night of July 15th, he showed the world once again how powerful the brotherhood, unity, and integrity of this country were. That evening only Izmir, Istanbul, Ankara alone, Tripoli, only Gaziantep, only Erzurum, did not go out to the street with their hands on the Turkish flag; at the same time, Hakkari de, Van da, Siirt and Şırnak, Mus da, Bitlis de, Bingöl de, Tunceli de, Şanlıurfa took the Turkish flag into the hands of every city and the people of every city. My advice to politicians is to use unifying language, not separative language. If you use the unifying language, not the separatist language, you get the support of the people who voted for you. If you insist on not using this language, you will answer not only in front of the law, but in the chest tomorrow in front of the citizen. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear friends, the second thing I want to emphasize is the matter of Qatar. The policy of the government of the Republic of Turkey and the state of the Republic of Turkey has been clear about Qatar since the beginning. With such problems in the region, who would benefit from a new problem and the new problem leading to greater instability in the region? At this point, Turkey's stance is not to cast a wood into this instability; rather, it is to take steps to address this instability. It's been our policy from the start, and in accordance with this policy, we've taken steps from one side to defend the sovereignty of one country, and on the other to soften the relations between countries in the region. On Wednesday, I got a phone call from Salman bin Muhammad, who is currently elected heir to Saudi Arabia and is acting as Deputy Prime Minister and Ministry of Defence. My partner and I have once again agreed that it is necessary to strengthen relations with Turkey and Saudi Arabia, to increase our current co-operation in defence and military cooperation. We've agreed to further enhance our defence industry projects. As thought, Turkey's stance on Qatar refers not to the fact that someone is hostile to Turkey, but rather to Turkey's weight in the region, particularly in solving problems. Soon, Mr. President will pay a visit to countries in the region. Look, dear friends, there are some issues that it's not right to pull into daily political debates, and the Qatar issue is an example of that. We as the ruling government of the Republic of Turkey in the Qatar crisis express that the sovereignty rights of Qatar have to be maintained, but on the other hand, we say that all other countries, especially Saudi Arabia, should sit around a table and talk and resolve this problem peacefully, and that we are prepared to contribute to all kinds of contributions as Turkey. If anyone knows a better policy than that, bring it on. Turkey follows a careful, balanced but decisive policy. We can't move on in this area, afraid of everything. There's a problem there. Move aside. There's trouble here. Move aside. Don't touch it, don't touch it, don't confront the powerful. My dear friends, we'll continue to side directly with the right. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Yes, directly...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0163par0130	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0164par0131	But we always got it mixed up, that's what happened.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0161par0132	Friends, we are aware of the burden of the righteous. With that understanding, we will continue our efforts to find a peaceful solution to the problem in Qatar. Another topic, particularly the unfortunate sentences the MP said regarding the TCG Anatolian state-of-the-art. See, until the AK PARTY era, our locality rate in defence industry was 24 percent. We, the government, have shown great zeal and have allowed the national excitement to rise once again and thus increase the number of indigenousities in our defence industry as a mobilization. This success is the success of all Turkey, not the success of the simple AK PARTY government. But it's especially useful for me to say that dear friends, what you call the TCG Anatolia, is a very large landing ship. There will be helicopters on this, above which F35 planes will be able to land and take off if necessary. Dozens of tanks will take off in an operation. Now, in the evaluation of such a project, one of them said, "Sir, I'm going to make this project a 100 percent native." Well, if the Indian didn't guarantee what he was going to do, he said he was local, so we have to give it to him. Is understanding like that acceptable? I say, as a friend of yours, who has given this particular amount of thought, both in my time and in my ministry of science, industry and technology, and at the moment, taking advantage of international experience in these projects is both important for the economy of time and the resource. That's what we did. This project began during the time of our fellow ministers before me, but I'm 100% sure that the offer of that 100 percent domestic offer could be made, if it were a viable offer, would have been selected without hesitation, and the cost would not have been taken very much care of, but you can appreciate something that requires so much experience that there is no government at the point of wasting the country's time and resources. By the way, it's an extremely unfortunate sentence, it's a 10% issue. Dear friends, I would like to be corrected by Mr. Salici. 10%, no commission, this one, this one. An approach that leaves no one under suspicion and under suspicion is unacceptable. If there's something you know right, put it in the middle, and it'll be done. We, on the one hand, are struggling to raise the domesticity rate of the defence industry to the highest level, while unfortunately, we are constantly fighting resistance centers on this issue. And while you're at it, please don't upset the people who work in this industry with such unsubstantiated claims. It's important. I'm hoping there'll be a fix on this. The issue of the S-400... dear friends, let me make it very clear that Turkey is a very important member of NATO. It is part of the NATO Alliance, but it is not a prisoner of NATO. While we were developing our air and missile defense systems, we preferred our NATO ally members; come, let's do it together; we agreed to meet this need together; but the offers at the time were not both competitive and did not involve sharing technology. What will Turkey do in such a situation? A, NATO member states are not giving us, so let's tie our hands and wait. Can we have that kind of understanding? Turkey will, of course, take care of its own air and missile defence system in a region where so many threats have increased, so much instability is concentrated. Studies at the time found that the most appropriate solution was S-400, and the process was initiated. We must, of course, consider our own national security as this process begins. In the draft agreement for him, the development of the friendly enemy recognition system, as we call it, is national. In this regard, all necessary statements have been made to ensure that no small threat to Turkey's national security and its allies does not occur. And we're not having second thoughts about it at all. But what did we do in the meantime? We've also launched our own national missile and air defense program. As part of this programme, we also signed a memorandum of understanding last Friday concerning the development and production of the Turkish-Fransa-Italy joint air and missile defence system. So, on the one hand, we provided our urgent needs, and on the other hand, we took steps to develop our own abilities in the long run. Finally, dear friends, in relations with Turkey and the European Union, if we say we have to, we'll be treated like a second-rate country. Turkey doesn't have to be anywhere. Turkey has no obligation, national interests. Turkey's national interests include walking the road with the EU, and we walk the road with the EU, and if Turkey's national interests do not require walking the road with the EU, then Turkey does its interests. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But we have to do it today. We'll definitely get second-rate treatment tomorrow. Mr. President, let me get this straight in a minute.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0165par0141	Complete, I'll give you one more minute, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0161par0142	In this regard, we must not surrender to the perception operation of media in Europe, especially in Turkey, which can no longer hide its indigestion in the face of its strengthening. So do you think that if Turkey meets all EU criteria today, the European Union will take Turkey as a full member? We called him Ankara criteria, not the European Union criteria. Yes, we make those criteria into Ankara's criteria, but we know very well that a few years later, Turkey becomes the largest country in the European Union, its population rises to over 80 million, 82-83 million; the population of Germany is reduced to under 80 million. Of course there's indigestion, we know that. What matters to us is to put forward a policy that will exceed European standards; we are trying to do so. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0165par0145	Thank you, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0166par0146	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0167par0147	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0165par0148	Mr. Kerestecioglu asked for a word first, Mr. Salici. Yes, what is your request?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0168par0150	Since I couldn't turn the system back on, I actually wanted to take the floor.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0165par0151	Are you going to make a statement?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0168par0152	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0165par0153	Here, one minute from your seat.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0168par0156	Mr. Secretary of Pain has spoken of the need not to use separative language on the words of our Deputy Minister Berdan Ozturk, and of the use of a more welcoming language, which mentions that the country is the home of everyone. I'd like to tell him a few of these languages, actually. You also mentioned that there was law, that there was law in Turkey. Yes, when the president of your party used the following sentences to the president of our party, the terrorist, the same words as: "We don't have the authority to release terrorists from prisons, Turkey is a state of law, the person you say is a terrorist. Is it possible to mention that there really is law in this country?" Now, you're a lawyer.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0165par0158	Complete, please, Mr. Kerestecioglu, I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0168par0159	And you express yourself as a lawyer from time to time. I've been a lawyer for thirty-three years, and I've never accused anyone of being a terrorist or anything, even though it was a serious criminal, before the verdict was finalized. How would you feel if I told you you were terrorists? I mean, the person sitting next to you sitting next to you is Mr. Ahmet Bahimama. Maybe I'd like to express it to him, he's up and about. So when this language is being used, please think once again about how naive our word is, how naive our word is, and how we've been using it for eight and a half months for a partner president who hasn't been brought before the court, and who's using separative language, you're going to cut off his head, you're going to crush it. We will never hesitate to crush his head. Decide whether he is a president or we are. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0165par0161	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0169par0162	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0165par0163	Mr. Salici, I'm listening.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0169par0164	While answering the questions I've asked, the Minister has asked for a correction by mentioning my name himself, which I'd like to make a statement about, if I may.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0165par0165	Yeah, he can fix it. He said it. Take your seats for a minute.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0169par0167	Sir, it won't be over in a minute.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0165par0168	But when there's an explanation, we'll give you our word on your location. Mr. Salici, come in.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0170par0170	He was teasing, he was picking on me.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0165par0171	He didn't pick on me.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0170par0172	He just picked on me.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0165par0173	No, he didn't pick on me, I listened very well. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0171par0176	Mr. President, during his speech, Mr. Secretary has now mentioned the rise in deployment rate in Turkey's national defence industry. I didn't criticize them anyway, there's no way to criticize them. Whatever power contributes to the deployment of the national defence industry in Turkey, what we need to do is give it more support. Now, it's about 10 percent: they can see it on the record, I said earlier, about 10 percent. My criticism of the TCG Anatolian is a criticism from local design, or there's a 10% issue here... He remembers the 90s, Mr. Secretary -- age is available -- and after every action, there was 10 percent, I told him 10 percent, sir. Someone else... If you'll excuse me, I'll complete it.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0172par0179	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0171par0180	Now, yes, we're not NATO's prisoners, but NATO has a military agreement, an international organisation; 29 members; we are the second largest army; NATO is also the southeast wing. Now, Mr. Secretary knows that these things are going to be...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0172par0183	Complete, please, Mr. Salici. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0171par0185	When it's important, we don't talk much in Congress, we need time.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0172par0186	Here, it's not supposed to turn into a question-answer.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0171par0187	No, I won't ask the Minister any questions.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0172par0188	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0171par0189	Now, here's the thing: does Turkey need a national defense system? Yes, there is, but it is not right to go to a negotiating point by creating new enemies, creating new challenges, and not talking about them in Parliament or the commission, which should be discussed. The answer must be answered: Can the S-400 be integrated into the NATO defence system, Mr. Secretary? Example... This needs to be talked about. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0173par0192	Thank you, Mr. Salici. Will you answer, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0174par0194	There's no need.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0173par0195	Okay. On behalf of him, Mr. Metin Gündoğdu, the MP of the Army, will speak for him. Here you go, Mr. Gündüz.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0175par0202	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of myself on the grounds that the United Nations' action in the Financial and Central African Republic has been extended to send troops abroad as part of the missions. I hereby salute the Veteran Assembly. Dear MPs, two days ago was the anniversary of the July 15 occupation attempt. On July 15, 2016, I remember 250 of our brothers who were martyrs and all our brothers who were martyred for the moon star flag by God. May their place be in heaven. I pray for immediate healing for our brothers who were veterans on July 15th. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you of our Necmettin Yilmaz teacher, who was martyred in Tunceli. When our teacher was martyred by the PKK, certain people could not say that the PKK terror organization was a terrorist organization, nor could they. Every day that we declare the PKK terrorist organization a terrorist organization, you have to say that in this Parliament, in this supreme Assembly, so that this Parliament will continue to be run in a much better way. I'm going to say a few words about..... ▪ It is a symbolic and dramatic example of what the word betrayal means. It is the name of treason, not only to the state, but to our history, our religion, our nation, and the realm of humanity. It's the name of the man who wrote the book of hypocrisy, ridicule, and finally immorality, the leader who entered the guise of the so-called clergy. We're warning all the countries and good people of the world about this invading terrorist organization. That's cheating, design, all kinds of games. They have their own secret agenda. These are robotic beings, they have neither the soul nor the sight of a normal human being. All roads to the cause are legitimate. They focus on the target and do whatever they're ordered to do like robots. We will not allow them to exploit human values in hypocrisy. For humanity's peace and quiet, the whole world needs to get rid of this cancer. I invite other countries to be responsible and sensitive. Valuable lawmakers are a strong and important country that has represented the state of the Republic of Turkey, its economy, its culture, its geostrategic historical background, as well as 20 developed countries. The Republic of Turkey is an exemplary state that can provide peace and peace for the world as well as guarantees peace, security, prosperity, and peace within its territory. Wherever the shadow of the moon-star al flag reaches, people will live in peace and security. We're a nation known for its other purpose. For the sake of our country, our nation's rights and interests, for the sake of international law, we have been everywhere, and we will continue to be, in accordance with international agreements, which have the legitimacy of peace and security of the world, for its well-being. Praise be to God, Turkey is greater than Turkey. To our glorious Turkish Armed Forces, to our Mehmet-duk, in this mission, I wish the glory of the Genab-i-hak. I also want to mention that we have students in our country today from over 80,000 African regions, Central Asia, Balkans, and countries around the world. These are grad students, grad students and PhDs. We get together with these students from time to time. When we talk to our fellow students from the African region, from the Central African Republic, we have fellow students who say that they are very peaceful wherever there is a flag of Turkey and that they find peace in the shadow of that flag wherever there is a Turkish flag. For him, the Turkish Armed Forces, the state of the Republic of Turkey, will go all over the world in accordance with the law and will do its best to protect and protect. Today, from the Adriatic to the Great Wall of China, you will see the seal and trace of the Republic of Turkey in all parts of the world and in the depths of Africa. This seal and mark, thank God for the thousands of times in the last 15 years, is an act of perception from all over the world by the great efforts of our President, our Commander-in-Chief. Therefore, we have been God's willing and will continue to be all over the world. Whatever our history was yesterday, we'll be the same today. Today, as in our history, we will continue our journey strong. Although our country was left alone by the apostle for democracy countries on July 15, 2016, it will continue to contribute to world peace with the power of the Republic of Turkey to contribute to world peace at all times. To this end, I ask that our government grant our nation the approval of the statement that we are discussing, and I salute you. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit03spe0176par0213	Thank you. Congressmans, talks on the Prime Minister's thesis have been completed. Now I'm going to put the thesis to your votes. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0176par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Members of parliament, under the decision taken, we move on to the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will begin talks with the Law Bill and the Justice Commission Report, which has been ranked in the 1st ranked District Court and Regional Administration Courts, aimed at the meeting of the changes in some Laws. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 490 rows. Congressmans, this bill will be discussed under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Mr. Ismail Faruk Aksu of İstanbul will now speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the entire bill. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0177par0014	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have been promised by the Nationalist Action Party Group to draft a draft amendment to some Laws in the Purpose of the Processing of District Courts and District Administration Courts 490. I salute the General Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. In the first year of the traitorous attempt on July 15, 2016, we will not forget that the coup attempt was a betrayal and brutal terrorist attack against the invasion of the Turkish state and the dagger of Turkish democracy. In the night of the month, I am grateful for those who have attained the rank of martyrdom and the rank of martyrdom. I ask the Lord God to grant mercy to our martyrs, and to heal our veterans. Far from all political and ideological concerns, I'd like to express my gratitude to our citizens who are fighting for their lives to keep democracy alive and to keep the nation's will superior. The 15th of July has shown the world that no betrayal focus will stand up against our belief in the national spirit and democracy. On the other hand, in the fight against terrorism, unfortunately, our martyrs continue to arrive. The heroes, officers, petty officers, specialists, police, teachers and security guards, continue to be sent off to Hakkk all over our country. Turkey faces critical processes related to unity, integrity and beka, while fighting against all terrorist organisations, particularly the PKK, and anti-Turkey lobbying activities and hostile positions of various countries. On this occasion, as we wish all of our security members success, he says once again that we are with them as the National Movement Party, and that in this blessed fight, I wish all our martyrs God's mercy, our wounded and our veterans immediate healing, and a healthy life. Despite all imperialist accounts on our country and region, the Turkish nation will not be defeated; Turkey will live forever as a whole with its country and its nation. Dear MPs, the National Movement Party sees justice as a guarantee of basic rights and freedoms and the basis of the state. Therefore, it is imperative that the judiciary be in a manner that can be unwaveringly trusted for all our citizens. We believe that trust in justice can only be achieved if the judicial system is effective, accessible, fair and impartial. In this framework, above all, the development of legal, human, physical and technological capacity related to the judiciary is essential. The protection of the righteous, not the strong, but the establishment of social harmony and peace, no doubt, is among the basic duties of the state by limiting various forces to the rule of law. It is also vital that our people live in a fair and just social order, the rule of rule of law, and the measures to ensure basic rights and freedoms are fully implemented. As it is known, the district courts and district administration courts have been activated in order to make the freedoms of the individual more protected. The establishment of the district court courts and the implementation of the law path have been postponed several times, and the district courts of the court have started in the wake of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors Resolution 187, published in the Official Gazette 7/11/2015, and thus our two-degree judicial system has become three degrees. As stated in the general grounds of Law 5235, the aim of these courts is to preserve the Court of Justice's ability to be a court of justice, to ensure that the trial is resolved quickly and quickly and to ensure the effective, efficient, and safe work of the first-level courts. However, it has been known that there have been some setbacks from the time the regional court and district administration courts, which are the subject of the bill that we are discussing, to this day, both the implementation of procedures and the organisation. It is natural and necessary to make changes in the laws and laws related to the practice, considering the problems faced in order to repair these shortcomings. There are also provisions that we have seen and supported in order to address some problems and to bring in some new mechanisms, as well as in order to address the changes in some Laws in order to address the issues that have arisen in the Process of the Regional Courts and the District Government Courts. In addition, some important problems stemming from the application have not been raised even though they are the subject of the bill. With the Filhakika arrangement, it is not possible to say that the current problems or troubled areas have been completely resolved. In fact, it would be helpful to consider arrangements that could contribute to the quick and just facility of justice, which would be more likely to be more successful, to discuss problems with the practitioners more fully. But I'd like to say that we don't see that kind of perspective in this bill. Both the subcommittee and the main commission work on the issue of objection were undoubtedly justified in the quality of participation and legislation that some issues have been altered or corrected in line with the general trend. It was also positive that justice would not contribute to the facility, especially in regard to its decision to stop the execution, although the bill was in its first form. It was also positive that the subcommittee and commission work would be removed from the draft text of the issues that have been concerned about a fair trial. There is no doubt that some of the envisioned arrangements are in line with the principle of procedure economics in the simplicity of judgment and the context of swift judgment. Some regulations are seen to have a proprietary lack of the law that should be within the framework of the basic principles and foundations of the practice of law, which are considered sacred in modern legal systems and teaching. Dear MPs, the bill is divided into presidents of the district courthouses, the legal offices of the presidents and the criminal departments as presidents. We are particularly considering that this change in terms of the Istanbul and Ankara Regional Courthouse Courts, with a high number of apartments, could contribute to accelerating the work and procedures of the courts in the way of business and expertise. On the other hand, the duties of the tribunal's presidents have been increased, but the provisions of the judiciary can lead to debates on the basis of the judge's principle, and they have been appointed judges according to the case. It is clear that approaches that will bring their appeals to the agenda will not serve the facility of justice. Therefore, I would like to point out in this framework that in the first instance of the bill, when any agency can't be assembled for legal or actual reasons, we don't approve of approaches such as appointing a member according to the court's discretion. The important thing is to prevent the functioning of the apartments by determining and resolving the elements of the system that prevents the collection of apartments. In this direction, we feel that malfunctioning attempts to undermine confidence in the judiciary will not bring permanent solutions to the system. The regional administrative court is concerned that its authority to appoint members from other agencies will be given to the head of the regional administrative court, as it is concerned that an office cannot be met with its members for legal or actual reasons that belong to the council of presidents. Essentially, it is important to whom such a decision is made, of course, if it is based on objective criteria. For this reason, it is appropriate that the Commission has changed its decision on the task in order of seniority and order. However, we believe that the use of this authority, along with the presidential criteria, is more accurate in the sense of trust in the judiciary. In this direction, we don't think the criteria are enough to be removed from the Council of Presidents and handed over to the head of the court. Dear lawmakers, the bill expands the issues in which the district court's criminal office can reject the claim by correcting some errors and shortcomings in first-degree court decisions. This enlargement is seen as being done in parallel with the Supreme Court's authority to correct appeals in the way of the law and with the intention of reducing the workload. However, because there is no major expansion, we are concerned that the current problems may continue again. Because it is said that the current workload and staff and the penal offices are now having difficulty lifting their labor loads. On the other hand, if there is no limitation, it is also possible that there will be a short-term blockage facing the Supreme Court and the General Assembly's objections. We find it positive that there is no shortage of the first clause (c) of the Penal Code (i.e. Article 280) under Article 280) in which the violation of the law can be rectified and fundamentally rejected, while the sentence shall be decided on the basis that the sentence shall be rejected and that the sentence shall not be applied on the grounds that the defendant will not be able to make the first degree of defence, except that the crime is wronged. Against the bill, the Supreme Court Attorney's objection, which is the extraordinary law against decisions that have been adopted after the Supreme Court's review of appeals, is also organised in terms of the law, and the regional court is authorized to appeal to the office ruling the republic's attorney-in-chief within 30 days. In parallel with the authority of the Supreme Court to object to the court's decision on the resension or request of the Supreme Court's criminal offices, it is a difficult law to conclude that the objection will be taken to the penal office, particularly in terms of resolving the financial errors in the decisions, but it is also incompatible with the basic logic of the objection code of law, as well as to a different decision from the same court. Given that the Supreme Court has filed its appeal to the Criminal General Assembly, it would be more appropriate for the district court to appeal the appeal of the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office to such an authority rather than the decision-making criminal office. On the other hand, there are also important regulations in the implementation of the bill, in the economy of procedure, and in harmony. Arrangements such as review reports, which are too long in the hearings, or the changes of the entire legislature in the way the reading process is explained, are considered the kind of arrangements that can prevent time loss. In this framework, the article 5271 added to Article 282 (d) in the article (d) is read. We feel that the statement and the report will be explained and explained in detail. We also think that changing it in the form of the law will contribute more to the economy of procedure. Precious lawmakers were scheduled to change the month-long appeal period in Article 361 of Law Code No. 6100 in the first instance of the bill to be changed to ί2 weeks in the article (1) and that the release of this law would be implemented in its history, but the current appeal path would still ensure that an interim clause in which the law could be applied as a month's implementation of the provisions given by the district court legal agencies would be lost, assuming that it could cause irreparable damages to the parties. On the other hand, there are some issues that have not been included in the bill's content, even though it is part of the bill's bill and is known in the implementation. This framework did not include an arrangement for the execution and collateral of the precautionary and precautionary measure, nor did it include an arrangement to eliminate the discussion of whether there is a way to appeal after preliminary examination under Article 352 of the Law Code of Law. Again, in addition to negative circumstances in Article 353/1 of the Law, the decision has not been resolved whether it will be final if it is positive. On the other hand, an arrangement for resolving the problems of the agencies' mission discrepancies has not been assessed as to the creation of a mechanism that will solve the problem permanently and in a healthy way, as a violation of a unit similar to that of the Supreme Court. We also value that among the clauses listed in Article 1 of the 2004 Executive and Bankruption Act, which are listed in Article 1, the provision of the district court's legal offices and the provision or value of the amount or value of the amount of 40,000 Turkish dollars would be beneficial for the resolution of a proposal to increase the value of the memorandum each year, adding the 364. This, and so on, would undoubtedly contribute to the Law's draft forum of justice in the desired event, as well as to the issues faced in the application. The bill we're discussing is intended to ease the difficulties of implementing, not to be the first ones to reform the judicial system, and as I've expressed in my speech, it's capable of solving some problems. With these thoughts, I wish the bill to have good results for our nation, and I salute you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0178par0036	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu will speak. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0179par0040	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have always been a problem with judicial independence and neutrality since the beginning of the state of the Republic of Turkey. In the early years of the Republic, judicial independence and judicial neutrality violations, which began with property courts and delegations, have repeatedly appeared in the investigation commission, in the court of Yassıada, in martial law courts, in state security courts and special officials in heavy criminal courts. We have to face our own facts. The attempt to be warded of the judiciary was clearly put into practice in violation of the rule of justice, independence and neutrality principle, which culminated after the July 15 coup attempt by the AKP. With its various aspects, the violations of judicial independence and neutrality continue in our country. Delegation of their salaries, particularly from the profession, is used for the independence of judges and prosecutors, while the search for consent, promotion and disciplinary procedures, is known as a geographical guarantee. The authorities who are authorized to use all these tools today are the High Judicial Boards, the HSK. Judicial higher boards must have independent structures without law or execution. However, the HSK is used as a means of legal pressure on the judicial bodies of political power, especially on the appointment, appointment, transfer, increase and rights of identity. The formation of the HSK, the selection of its members, and the active position of the Attorney General and his undersecretary of Justice on the board of the board of judges have reduced it to a board of directors. In the current system, it is simply impossible to talk about independence and neutrality of the judiciary. Although there are provisions on the agenda of the Justice Commission for the resolution of certain technical issues of the judiciary -- the spirit, logic, philosophy, and bill -- there are a number of articles hidden in the court -- that violate the principle of judicial independence, neutrality, and the rule of justice that violates the principle of amendments to certain Laws in order to the functioning of Regional Courts and District Government Courts, which have been adopted by a majority of votes. In violation of the principle of natural judges and the independence of the courts, the HSK is a business department between the agencies, the regulations authorising the tribunal to establish a new apartment from the authorities concerned with the heads of the courts are the regulations that enable the judiciary to intervene in the indirectness of political power. Yes, apart from this general assessment, we need to express that some of the articles, such as the European Convention on Human Rights, the Constitution and democratic law, include provisions that violate the principles of judicial independence and neutrality and, of course, judge principles. These items must be removed from the bill in particular. We can also talk about the chapters and materials again. Now, in general, after looking at this law this way, I'd like to focus on a concept that was just spoken and criticized. The political prisoner is a political expression, and it is a phrase used every period in different cases. Unfortunately, it's been used for years. And Selahattin Demirtaş, Figen Yüksekdağ and our deputies are political prisoners. There are also those who call them political prisoners, such as I am one of them, but there's never been a word that bothers me in the political context. This is the way people express themselves, the way they choose to express themselves freely. As for political genocide: when you ignore a political thought, a people, his rhetoric, he removes their names from the signs, he even changes the name of the place, he even removes the name of the Tahir Efflu from a park, arrests his representatives, seizes their municipalities, even closes their women's centers, it's called genocide, which you don't like. Of course, it is also political rhetoric. Because if the judiciary is not independent and neutral and is not being carried out by these courts -- independent and impartial courts -- then you would say that those people are hostages in a place where there is no trial. Today, the independent and neutral court in Turkey is unfortunately out of the question. If the Co-Chair of Turkey's third-largest party has not been brought before a judge for eight and a half months, and is feared by his words, he is not a prisoner, he is a hostage. It's not called a trial either. Oh, yeah, there are other hostages besides us. For example, the lawyers or writers of the Republican newspaper that Mr. President knows very well are being held hostage, and I hope one day, when faced with hope, these colleagues of ours, who still have not been brought to trial by the concept of hostage, and who have done nothing but practice law for years, do nothing but defend rights, but today they will probably give the answer as it should. Now, there was before, but especially the intervention by the Speakers of Parliament since July 15th, is actually being discussed, or rather, giving important tips on freedom of expression in the Parliament after the amendments to the Underlying Civil Code. Right now, it's probably a sign of what will happen next to the House talks, such as the state of the judiciary, and how the freedom of expression will be treated, and how the new trial will be opened in even more places, perhaps with great pleasure. Now, I know that there's no shame in it, but I'd like to present to you the book written in prison by Dear Ayhan Bilgen, who's still not on trial, who has just been given a trial date. It's so fresh, we just got it. It says Ayhan Bilgen and says: "I didn't say anything I couldn't defend." Anyone who ventures into a political struggle as a opposition in countries such as Turkey knows very well what trial processes mean if the desire for seats is not blind. I'm not going to give you more examples of the world, other lands, other country practices, but you realize what it is to be hostile when you look at the Europe of the 1930s, where only those interested know, and those who wonder can easily reach it. The history of this country is no stranger to that. Those exhibited by hanging cords on their necks at Gülhane Park provide a few clues to what happened to Mustafa Suphi and his friends in the Black Sea after the Soviet support of the Liberation War, the end of the so-called alleged perpetrator Ali Şükrü Bey, Møres and his two ministers, about 10 years later, about the quality of the legacy of the execution of their friends. One of the closest and perhaps most understandable examples was an explanation of the exact timing of the ten-year imprisonment of the DEPEST MPs in 2004, the turning point of their relations with Europe. The name of the period, Cemil Cicek, was extremely direct, and Turkey did its part, and now its message was in Europe. Let us give you the right, at least no more banishment to Malta, or leaving the Yezkule dungeons to die. What's sad about this joyous progress is that those who were wronged 20 years ago, February 28, 1997, today, when they ruled the country, they couldn't even get justice. Each society is governed according to its merits, and there is nothing for you but what you do with your own hands. If you attribute value to their expressions, you do not complain, you only calculate your state. The most fundamental principle of criminal law has been ignored and a new de facto situation has been created to be tried by the temporary regulation voted and approved in parliament. In the corruption files, those who kidnapped politicians from the judiciary tried to teach us a lesson in not hiding behind immunity. If you call arresting the perpetrator an anonymous social media message, given evidence, and you call it a criminal charge, not even written in the prosecution's statement to parliament, we're being tried. In this case, even saying something about the law, let alone the law, is incompatible with the respect that man has for himself and the respect that he has for the community that he is responsible for, especially for a politician. For five years, people who listened to my calls, organized the Constitutional panels and the Constitutional programs I've been doing on television, for five years, they couldn't find an issue of investigation. The script changes, but the script doesn't. Thirty years ago, I wrote down what I believed, what I've been thinking for thirty years, what I'm feeling, what I'm feeling, what I'm sharing. When I think of it, when my tongue turns, I will continue to write as much as I can, to speak as I can, to act as I believe to be right, to defend freedom, justice, equality, peace. Freedom is not something that can be blocked by an iron door, four walls, a fence, and a fence in a window; it begins in the mind, the heart, the claim to be free. The one who isn't free has no faith, no morals, no brains. I believe I'm free, at least I'm trying to be. We're not the ones who aren't free; those who don't tell the truth because they're afraid of losing their seats, their badges, who can't move as they believe, who prefer to bury their heads in the sand when they see danger. What should we say? May God save you, as you call it in prison. In the environments where the pressure rises, humor flourishes. They did not say in vain. For him, sometimes laughing and laughing is considered the most revolutionary act. The famous joke is that when the parrot owner was forbidden to repeat what he didn't like, he continued to express himself in two words, if you know what I mean. Yes, he says so, and he goes on to say: "We are not afraid to be judged and we are not running away from him, we are not defending ourselves; we are defending the independence of the judiciary, justice and peace. Without independence of justice, we say there is no peace without the state of democracy and law, justice and freedom. Yes, that's what your dear Ayhan Bilgen wrote. Speaking of the judiciary and the district administration courts, another complaint comes from the Justices' Union. They also made a press statement before going to the places where they were expelled and said: "As it is known, not long ago, our Union President Mustafa Montenegro was also appointed from Ankara to Şanlıurfa, against his will. Even through promotions without prior approval in national and international documents, it is a clear principle that judges should not be relocated. Thus, the savings of the HSK are not an appointment, but an exile-qualified practice. In these appointments, our Union President Mustafa Montenegro and board members Ali Hadjiibrahimoglu, Tamer Akbüçe, Fusun Naci Çağlar, Bayram Kapuçu, each one of them assigned separately, meaning that the Judiciary Union will be taken away from the operation. Yes, on the other hand, the participation of judges members of our union, both of our members and all of our judges and prosecutors, is a form of intimidation and a threat to all other judges and prosecutors, restricting their rights and freedom to join the union they want, as it prevents them from serving as free, independent judges and prosecutors. What are the characteristics of exiled judges and prosecutors? They are the most senior judge and prosecutors of twenty years, the most senior. So they're tops in rank and integrity. They're the ones who say that they don't rent their brains, their hearts, or their cults, that they're our character of independence, based on ethics of the profession. The guarantee of jurisprudence is the public's assurance, not just of judges, but of judicial independence and the precondition for a fair trial. No process involving judges can and must not remove this guarantee. As the Justice Syndicate, we demand that the Union, the President, the Board of Directors and members of the board be reinstated and cancelled, and that all judges and prosecutors be kept under constant transfer pressure. And the judge Tamer finally says: "Every darkness comes to light. Today, sooner or later, we are between them, and the struggle continues. Well, friends, sooner or later, we're between the two of us, and there's nothing more to be said about the district administration courts than there is about the subject, the independent judiciary and the judges. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0180par0064	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Yes, I felt the same way when we spoke earlier, before Mr. Secretary. Yeah, so you're saying political prisoner, you're saying political genocide, and I'm saying I don't accept that. The political prisoner is the political genocide of a nation, which is to destroy a nation religiously, nationally. Turkey isn't doing that, Turkey is fighting terrorism.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0181par0067	We call it genocide, not political genocide. You'd better know the political concepts.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0180par0068	I'd expect you to talk about it in such a long way, as well as the practices of the government or the state that you've criticised, as well as the practices of the terrorist organization, especially today, on the day a teacher was killed, and I'd expect you to talk a little bit about it.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0181par0069	You say that, it has nothing to do with it. I'm so sorry.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0180par0070	You know how we say we meet around common values? Let's get together. You know what you're saying?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0181par0071	No, I didn't say that.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0180par0072	...we offer it, but you don't leave the segregation language, I'm afraid.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0181par0074	Thank you very much, thank you, really. So you're good at racing the pain.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0180par0075	Yes, Mr. Necati Yilmaz will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0182par0078	Mr. President, Mr. Court, members of parliament, I have taken a pledge from the CHP Group to express our party's views on the draft Law on the Processing of Regional Courts and Regional Government Courts, in order to address the changes in some Laws. I salute you. Members of parliament, the bill envisions changes in many laws in order to address a number of problems that have arisen as a result of the act of the law, which envisions a second-degree judicial and administrative trial. Congressmans, in modern democracies, the biggest guarantee of public safety, basic rights and freedoms is the implementation of the state of law. In this sense, the existence and institutionalism of the separation of powers, the existence of independent and neutral judiciary is vital. In particular, the independence of the judiciary and the judicial control of the administration appear as a fundamental requirement. Members of parliament, the independence of the judiciary means that no state body, office, person and institution may be able to give orders or instruct the courts as they make the decisions of the courts in its simplest way. Our assessments of the current bill must also be in line with this basic obligation. Congressmans, with the functioning of our two-degree judicial system, which consists of first-degree and appeals courts, the functioning of regional court courts and district administration courts, our judicial system has become three degrees. Following the establishment of the district court and district administrative courts as law courts, the Court of Appeals and the Court of Appeals was intended to be served. Members of parliament, this bill aims to address the shortcomings and defects in the functioning of this three-degree system on July 20, 2010. In addition to some changes that require our technical participation in the bill, we cannot accept the fundamental approaches of power that traditionally represent its view of the judiciary in this bill. In this context, we see that the council of presidents of the district court is required to split the legal offices as presidents and prisons as presidents, especially in our large provinces -- such as Ankara and Istanbul -- in which the number of apartments is large. This change will also contribute positively to the working and functioning of courts in terms of business and reconciliation. Again, in line with the authority of the Supreme Court's Attorney's office to object to the decisions of the Supreme Court's office on the basis of resension or request, we also find it right to recognise the authority to object to the state's attorneyship of the district court. Thus, financial errors in decisions will be possible. However, it is not in line with the logic of the opposition institution that the objections should be made to the agency, not to an upper body, but to the decision-making agency. Also, the fact that the law has been closed against the rejection of this objection is alien to the institution's functioning. Again, the arrangement for the decision on the halting of the execution during the bill's appeal and adjudication examination limits freedom of rights and control of judicial decisions. A legal control mechanism would have to be foreseen against this decision. Members of parliament, it is not right to hand over some of the powers that belong to the council of presidents to the head of the district administration court and to the HSK. The bill gives the head of the regional administrative court, administrative courts and tax courts the authority to appoint members from other agencies, according to the fact that an apartment cannot be met with its members for legal or actual reasons. It's not true in our opinion that this authority that previously belonged to the board of presidents should be left to one person's discretion. Although the benchmarks and benchmarks of this matter have been adopted in the Commission, such delegations must be limited to the request for measures in the file and the authority to decide on the basis of the case. Congressmans, we're going through a period when the judiciary is political. In our recent history, we have often faced decisions made by illegal witnesses with the concerns of extrajudgment and belonging. At this time, you must rightly find our concern that by violating the judge's principle, the case can be assigned to a special judge. Again, in order to ensure integration by considering the intensity and quality of the work coming in the bill, the business section between the apartments is taken from the council of the regional administrative court and transferred to the HSK. This arrangement is not acceptable to us either. As it is known, the work division between the Court and the Supreme Court agencies is determined by the relevant courts. A second-degree court would have to solve this problem in a similar way. In addition, the formation of the HSK with the new constitutional arrangement has become open to the intervention of political opinions and influences. The majority and cuspability of the board has been eliminated. The majority of parliament-based groups were allowed to single-handedly determine the board by ignoring all other approaches. As a matter of fact, the first application of this arrangement came from this bad experience. The decision of the HSK, which is shaped by such political saiks, will allow the establishment of the council to be reduced to the judicial processes of individual, political will and saiks. Parliamentary lawmakers are expected to contribute to the removal of shortcomings and setbacks in the functioning of the judiciary, revealing an efficient, fast, cheap, respectable and reliable justice process. Unfortunately, however, in the 15-year period, the government's legislature efforts were beyond that necessity to create the infrastructure of opportunities to intervene in the judiciary. Thus, they have converted the judiciary into a means to politicalize the judiciary and ensure the efficiency of power. This intervention has removed the judiciary from dignity as never seen in its history, and the trust in the judiciary has been reduced to 30 percent. Members of parliament, the judicial staff has been transformed into the organisation of politics and the community in this process. It is the 15-year AKP's government that has made the judgment miserable. In 15 years, such principles, such as generality, abstraction, controlability, should dominate the legal system, have been abandoned. It is possible for the government and the congregation to intervene in judicial processes through regulations that bring broad discretion and even make pleasure possible. Congressmans, you must return this way, even if it's late. All parliament's arrangements must first be aimed at boosting the welfare and freedom of society in a sense of equality and justice of social order. The government must maintain its presence within a framework that meets the prospect of justice in society. Although the general reasons for the legal arrangements are often provided for these concepts and concerns, and these statements are repeated, it is clear that beyond this need, the purpose and the rights are guiding the plans of power. It is now clear that after 15 years of power's practices, his basic approach is to provide political custody of the judiciary he sees as a custody office. The politicalisation of the judiciary and the use of power as an instrument of its needs are a clear, final conclusion that 15 years of government practices are in our hands. The main reason for this dark period that we've been through today, and for the preparation of this coup attempt on the basis of the State of Emergency process, is the government's attitude that politicalises the judiciary, makes it a tool for its political purposes and decays. Members of parliament, as representatives of our Party's Committee for Research on Impacts have made it clear in the face of opposition, our July 15th coup attempt has taken power from the legal infrastructure prepared by the government. In particular, the regulations made in the new Penal Code, the establishment of special-duty courts and the establishment of special-duty courts, the blocking of lawyers' access to case files, the concealing witness practices of military persons in judicial courts due to duty crimes, the obstruction of litigation suit against judges and prosecutors, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, the changes of the Supreme Court of Judges, the establishment of the Supreme Court of Prosecutors, and the changes of election methods, the changes of political staff as judges and prosecutors, the changes of the Adlaiment of the Court of Law, the establishment of Justices and prosecutors, the establishment of this dark point in which we are building. Members of parliament, with these regulations, the functioning of the judiciary has been handed over to gang members by the power. Judicial processes have been operated operationally for political purposes rather than to meet the public's demand for justice. This power, followed by the judiciary, was used by the military and the entire bureaucracy, to become increasingly controlled, intimidated, and silenced by all media, occupational organisations and civil society. Until 17-25 December, this operational process was carried out in arm and arm by the coupist gang and the ruling group as they marched into common range. On December 17th and 25th, the state was robbed by the government, exposing the greatest corruption of the century. Turkey missed out on this opportunity that day, which it could view as a nation. Instead of asking the account of what has happened and facing what has happened, the top of the process has been covered by power. The attempt to acquire the state device has continued so far in two lines that clash and fight each other by power and the congregation. These two structures had been supporting and supporting each other until that day. Both sides were not afraid to say they were moving into common range. At the point where we are now, this common range must be explained. It is our citizens' right to expect this statement from a government that still uses the power of the state rather than from a terrorist organization. I'm calling to power from here: get out, explain the common range you're walking with the terrorist organization, and come out. Explain where you were walking together. Fear doesn't help at all. Remember, every crime leaves evidence behind. We will continue to ask these questions from these platforms and squares until questions are answered through these evidences. Members of parliament, a year ago, Turkey suffered a low and bloody coup attempt. We have martyrs, we have veterans. In a low blow, 249 of our citizens lost their lives, 1.301 of our citizens were injured. Nevertheless, the government viewed the low blow as God's blessing and used it as a 20 July civilian coup. In the past year's course of a bloody coup attempt, the Strike Research Commission, established to question the low march of the congregation, reveal the day of the coup, and what happened before, has become a complete failure. The thousands of questions we expect from the commission are hanging unanswerable in the minds. Our expectation of power is that it will answer these questions in the measure of its knowledge; otherwise, it is the establishment of legal, parliamentary and democratic processes that will answer these questions. However, as the government does not answer these questions, it continues to prevent the operations of these processes. In fact, it was understood from the introduction of Reşat Petek to the Commission's presidency in the formation of the coup research commission, which would not be met by power. By this choice, the liver is delivered to the cat. Rather than producing answers to questions that we expect the Commission to answer, which have spent its entire life as a lawyer and defender of the congregation gang, Reshat Petek has justified our concerns. At this point, no citizen had any hope or expectation of exposing the dark relations of the AKP's ruling before the coup and on the day of the coup. The government is afraid to be asked these questions. Congressmans, speaking of all these issues and the need for justice, I'd like to remind you of a matter that determines Turkey's agenda in the near process. On July 9th, a date was written in Turkey, an epic date. As every myth has its hero, his name is Kemal Kilicdaroglu. (HPP) We have performed the longest political, peaceful, mass, civilian, democratic act in the world. We just walked by saying, "True, law, justice." We wanted justice for everyone. Justice has a meaning and content beyond the concept of law, and we know it, and we never forget that the real place is not just the courthouse halls, but the consciences. We invite every faith and doctrine without justice to question the cause of existence. It should not be forgotten that any practice that conflicts with these values will be questioned and condemned on a public conscience. That's why we've addressed half the community, not 50 million, but all of it. As we walked along, we had subcontractors, violent women and children, unemployed and poor, shoppers who couldn't afford to do their jobs, military students who studied in public schools, and privates who did their civic duty. There were educators and academics and public employees, journalists, who couldn't walk with us, who gave their heart to the will we had established, who were punished for their opposition to the unlawfulness of power. As we walked, we had hundreds of thousands of citizens elected and illegally held behind the cell walls. And again, if there was no one there, there was with us the honorable resistance they had made to return to their unlawfully suspended work. As we walked, we had Mustafa Montenegro, president of the Judiciary Union, who was exiled for defending judicial independence and rule of law. We don't need to argue about the march or the number of participants in the rally. 170, or 2.5 million, that doesn't matter, we know that. The magnitude of the rally that crowns this march should be measured not by the numerical expression, but by the injustice and persecution created by power. As we speak in our march and in our rally, we speak once again under the roof of the Holy Parliament, and we demand justice for all these parts of society. (HPP) We do not mean that any crime, no criminal, will be punished, but we ask that every criminal and criminal be punished in the face of the law and the measure of conscience. In this sense, we would like everyone with legal responsibility for this bloody coup attempt to be tried and punished along with others who have not been established or exposed for a year and are not allowed to be exposed by the Commission. Congressmans, July 9th is a new climate, the beginning of a new history, a new birth. In a new climate, Turkey is at the beginning of a new threshold. It is a threshold where the wall of fear imposed on the threshold of society is broken; solidarity, cooperation, the re-invention of the culture of partnership in the common values of humanity; it is the discovery of that magical feeling called hope; it is the objection of our citizens being polarized by the identity they are now born with. Now our citizens want to live as equal citizens in a democratic, secular, social, legal state, without denying identity, culture, and lifestyles. I call to power from here: you've created a lot of victims, you've produced a lot of fear, you've collected a lot of reactions and objections with all your illegalities. Now we turn these reactions and objections into hope. The clouds of fear scattered from the mountains of Bolu, where we walked, and from the shores of Maltepe. Now we're walking to a new Turkey. This march is the march of all of us. We invite our citizens from every party with a clear conscience, a clear heart, a clean dream, to take their steps towards this march, we demand justice. I salute you, my friends.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0183par0108	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Amassian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı will speak. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0184par0112	Mr. President, dear friends, I've been promised here in order to make a brief speech. We weren't going to give a speech on behalf of the group, but when the valuable speaker voiced some criticisms, which, in a way, crossed the limits of criticism, and I think, included logical errors, I took the initiative to draw rational attention to them. Now, first of all, it seems as if we could agree on this: a secret organization called, which is strictly secretive, with international connections, the method, the approach, the organisation, of course, has attempted a coup attempt that cannot be compared to the structure of any party, the way it's organized, and the entire nation has resisted it, and all parties have resisted it. Why? Because even though we have political competition, the ground where all political parties are on the ground is legitimate. All parties have open ideas in public, making a covenant with the community about what they want to do, what program they want to walk on. Secret agencies don't have that problem. They're under covert agendas, mainly because their characters, their structures are like this, and because they don't have a program for the interests of the public, they want to mediate power for other kinds of desires and desires, a secret organization has attempted a coup attempt, and we're fighting against it. This fight is still going on. The language is a false language, which has made it an element of competition, in the midst of political competition, while fighting such an organization in a way that puts this organization ahead of the fight. I think the right and consistent attitude here is to first take a firm stand against this organization about the state's struggle. Conflicts between parties, conflicts, competitions, has happened in the past, and this has happened. Of course evaluations can be done, but a language that puts them ahead of the fight with Å is a false language. Now, the valuable speaker is speaking here, saying you were easy to handle until December 17-25. So, why did we break up, since we were easy, we were walking together, we were partners? What happened?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0185par0115	Tell me, we're listening.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0184par0116	Why did we break up?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0186par0117	He stepped on your foot...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0184par0118	It's not about getting on your feet.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0186par0119	He claimed it, Hajji.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0184par0120	The issue is that we don't have partnerships with these as morally, as a method, as the value we attribute to the people, as the way we look at the world. Do not confuse your partner.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0186par0121	Well, you were headed for the same range.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0184par0122	If we had that kind of partnership, this partnership would go on and on. In that sense, I mean, we've never had a partnership in any time.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0187par0123	Well, you walked down the road together.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0184par0124	It's an organization that's been organized, infiltrated, especially in parts of society, called,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, Democratic politics doesn't act negatively against structures that aren't yet born, which are legitimate or legitimate in a society, but I'd like to point out that December 17-25 is a very important date, and it has a genetic partnership with July 15th. On July 15th, there was an attempt against the will of this nation, and on December 17th and 25th, it was the same as supposedly legitimate methods and methods; it was an assassination of the will of the nation. On December 17th and 25th, while trying to purge the power elected by the public for its own cause, the gang also wanted to activate a propaganda machine to create a wind called corruption, bad luck, fraud, and so on and so forth to serve its purpose. Be sure to get on that boat for the liquidation of power at that time, it means sharing with him in his purposes. I've passed that period, and it's obvious what happened today, and it's still not the right thing to talk about his thesis here. So, when we're making an assessment, who are we talking about when we're doing a review, who are we talking about, in what context in the past, who is the tool of what strategy, don't you need a judgment on that? We need it, you need it. What's he saying? The reason for the attack is the prearranged legal infrastructure, he says. This is how the political approach to the AK PARTY, the way I'm going to tender it, is focused on the AK PARTY, and how I can get the biggest tender out of this job as an element of political competition.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0188par0126	Teacher, who's in power on the day of the coup?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0184par0127	We're talking about a 40-year-old structure. He worked for 40 years, got in there, got in here, got into law enforcement, got into the courthouse. Yes, and don't forget all that - with a legitimate appearance and a very careful, caring work.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0189par0128	It's not legitimate, it's all been played out, it's all clear. It's not closed, Hajji.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0184par0129	So now, all of these processes, all of these studies, in the past period of different powers, they miss their approach to power and opposition, and come here and read the whole story in the context of AK PARTI, it's not right, it's unfair, and ultimately it's not in your interest to do so as an element of political competition.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0190par0130	Hodja, look back at the decisions of the National Security Council. Loud and clear...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0191par0131	Mr. Tarhan, please...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0184par0132	As a result, we do reviews of the past, and there are things that everyone should consider, but let's not forget that the date of his existence as a gang is December 17th or 25th. On December 17th and 25th, it was taken into account. We're looking at the 15th of July with a retrospective look from here, walking back into the past. History doesn't flow from present to past, it flows from past to present. When we look back from the past, I'm sure there's a lot of things that we can associate with you if we actually read from the references of the analytic, sociological, and certainly political science, not from the way that this whole process has been happening, but from the way that this extravagant, critical political language is destroying the truth. That's what's in the best interest of the country. I hope all political parties get a piece of that approach. Thank you so much, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0191par0135	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0192par0136	Mr. President... Mr. Yilmaz, I'm listening. Sir, the speaker said my speech was unreasonable when I first told him to speak out of contradictions. In addition, he used the expression "riding on the boat" and the expression "talking with his thesis."
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0193par0139	There are mistakes in logic. He said, yes. Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0192par0143	Dear friends, first of all, there are serious differences between a totalitarian look and analytic and dialectic vision, of course, trying to resolve problems. You would rather cover it up with a collective understanding than find the answers to the questions. This approach is normal and natural to have a difference. There's this fundamental difference in how we look at life and how our flow of thought works. In addition, why did the four ministers resign if it wasn't the robbery of the state by the government on December 17th-25th? (CHP cheers again) With an analytical and dialectic look, if those coins weren't corruption money, why was they bought with interest? The answers are hanging in the air. These questions will continue to be asked for centuries until they find the answers. In addition, yes, an illegitimate operation has control over the functioning, the working, but there is much you have learned from each other. In the same way, non-discriminalism, the understanding of governance, the idea of government that violates authority, has become the basic understanding of the AKP's governance. You've learned a lot from each other. Yesterday, when you were suing together with fabricated evidence, you had lawsuits today that you didn't even need to bring in evidence. Just today, there's the tamperings you've done at the Commission for Research on the Impact, and what you've done in that sense -- how shall we put it -- cheating junk. So you're very much alike, and there's a lot of things that your traveling friendship can do for each other. We expect you to tell us what you've learned in that sense. Turkey needs to know that. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0194par0149	Thank you. The talks for the bands are over. We will now listen to the MPs who will speak on behalf of their people. Mr. Mahmut Attila Kaya will speak first. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0195par0158	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge regarding the Law Bill for Changes in Some Laws in the Purpose of the Processing of Regional Courts and Regional Government Courts. I hereby salute your high council with respect and love. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been relocated to the Court of Justice Courts No. 5235, adopted on September 26, 2004, as well as to the Court of Justice Courts of District Courts Foundation, Law on Duty and Authority. In 2014, the administrative judiciary was also part of our system with Law 6545. The law, which envisions second-degree trial, has been established throughout the dorm on July 20, 2016 as a result of a lack of physical capacity with the judge and the republic's attorney. In the first place, seven separate courts (Ankara, Antalya, Erzurum, Gaziantep, İstanbul, İzmir and Samsun) were established in order to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of the implementation union in the first place, and seven other areas (Ankara, Antalya, Erzurum, Erzurum, Gaziantep and Samsun). Then, as of July 2017, the Courts of Judiciary Courts of Bursa and Adana also went into operation. Six other court-martials (Diyarbakir, Kayseri, Konya, Sakarya, Tripoli, Van), established in administrative terms, will also be opened in the following years under the need and the position of staff. A total of 111 criminal offices and 1,397 people, including 142 criminal offices and 142 administrative offices, 42 administrative prosecutors and 20 tax litigation agencies, are serving as state prosecutors, the head of the agency, the republic's prosecutor and member, 1,045 criminal accounts and 352 administrative titles, as well as 1,747 co-workers. With this legal reform, a crucial step has been taken to ensure the freedom of rights and the right to a judicial trial. The second trial of the incident has been carried out by the first-degree court and the decision to make amends financially, to ensure rapid access to justice. Again, assurances in Protocol 7 have been strengthened to protect Human Rights and Main Freedoms. Our two-degree judgment has been reduced to three degrees, and the protection of one's freedom has been more guaranteed than my care. The law of the exception is to be subject to law enforcement and to ensure a retrial if necessary by being audited as well as by a case trial. Thus, mistakes are reduced to a minimum, providing complete access to material truth. With the start of the law, the problem of overburdening is also being resolved in high courts, one of the main problems of our judicial system. Over the past year or so, it seems that the law has worked very effectively and quickly, and has taken considerable distances to ensure public satisfaction. As of April 30, 2017, the ruling rate was 77 per cent of the 106,928 cases brought to the district court's criminal offices. Only 5.537 (5.37) of the decisions made in the criminal agencies have been appealed, and the appeal rate is 5.2 per cent. Again, decision has been made on 75,182/ of the 111,147 cases from the district court's legal offices, the decision rate has been 67 per cent, and the appeal rate has remained at 11 per cent. Again, a total of 36,729 decisions have been made by district administration courts, 4,341 have been appealed, so the appeal rate has been 11.8 per cent. The amendments to the law in implementing the rules of procedure within a year and in resolving a number of setbacks in the organisation's construction have been expressed by the shareholders. In fact, all of the proposals involved in this bill are proposals delivered to the Justice Department by the reputed president and members. As part of the meetings attended by all the presidents, members and lawyers, and the study of the problems that have been under way, the conclusions at the point of providing more effective, more efficient work of the law are included in this bill. The rule of law is the most effective and powerful court position in our judiciary. As the court of law reviews the decisions leading up to them, it has the right and the right to rule as a first-degree court, using all the possible procedures, such as case reviews, witness listening, and application to an expert, if necessary. The Supreme Court and the Prosecutor's Office are only making a decision to approve and break it, and from now on, it will be a real court of law with just a legal audit. Along with the bill, the district court is divided into the heads of the Court of Justice, and the offices of the criminal and legal authorities are divided into the council of presidents. The District Court of Justice is authorized to determine the number of the legal and criminal agencies and the working area between them by the Council of Judges and Prosecutors. The head of the district administration court is tasked with additional tasks, and he is tasked to appoint members from other agencies, as it is concerned that a department cannot meet with its members for legal and actual reasons. The office's president and members are being held and are allowed to make joint delegations. The examinations of the law shall allow intermediary decisions to be made by the head of the agency and members. Some decisions are being made clear by which judicial authorities will be served and which authorities will be sent from these files. It is clear that the decisions made regarding the wishes to stop the executive are final. The first-level courts of the district court have expanded their decision to correct the violation of the law and basically reject the application for the indictment. The exception is adopted on the road to the law and is also allowed to apply to other defendants who, if possible, have not asked for a co-existence in favour of the verdicts made by the criminal agencies. There will be a mistrial over the defendant's refusal to attend the court-martial hearing. A review of the member's report at the prison hearing has been imposed on the first-degree court, with the basis of the initial court's ruling, the testimony of witnesses being heard in the first-degree court, and the obligation to read the discovery reports and the coroner's report have been lifted and the obligation to explain this document. The hesitation in the application for the ban on abolition is being lifted and a direct appeal to the decision on extradition of criminals is being submitted to the law. Prison sentences for up to five years may have been finalised in the collusion phase, but the option for short-term prison sentences is to remove the contradiction at the point of appeal law and ensure that decisions on alternative sanctions are finalised in the process of coherence. The period of appeals has been extended to 15 days so that parties can use appeal rights more effectively, the period of appeal has been changed into two weeks, and the files returned from the appeal examination have been made available to the first-level courts without being provided as an instrument for the chief prosecutor's office. The district court is envisioning an extraordinary way of dealing with possible violations of the criminal authorities' final decisions. The decision to collect the sentences has been made to re-establish judicial authorities who will decide on a conditional release and a resuscitation of conditional release. If there is no application by the parties to submit the sentence, the decision will be issued within a month followed by the editor-in-chief. These decisions will be carried out in the first-degree court, with the regulation to ensure that the land on the roads of the law will be carried out. Kira is unable to appeal to court-martials in cases to take from their relations. An appeal is opened on the basis of the amount and value you will receive from the rental relationship in order to eliminate the control issue. The road to appeal for the benefit of the law is also closed on decisions that have been finalised in the path of the law. After these technical assessments, Mr. Group Vice President has already given us the necessary answers at the point of the decision, but I'd like to point out that while we're waiting for a technical discussion at this point, particularly the Walk of Justice and so on, as well. I also want to make it very brief: Of course, you can walk from here to İzmir, and you can walk to Istanbul, but walking against tanks takes courage and courage.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0196par0176	You walked?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0195par0177	On the 15th of July, I thank our veterans and those who walk against the tanks as well as those who walk against them. I wish this law to be a blessing.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0197par0180	Thank you, Mr. Rock. He will speak for himself in the second place, Mr. Zeynel Emre, the Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Emre.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0198par0184	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of myself on behalf of the general bill 490 rows, and I hereby salute you. Now, when I took the bill to address the problems in the functioning of regional court and district administration courts and read it, here's the first thing that came to my mind when I examined the Commission's report, opposition harms: the laws that came out here on the same grounds again will be changed and new ones will be made in a very short period of time. I have no doubt about it, because there is a need for a political horizon, a vision that will address the issue in a whole sense, and unfortunately we don't see it. And I'll explain to you why I think so. Now, valued lawmakers, according to the World Justice Project's Global Law Superiority Index of 2016, Turkey is 99th place among 113 countries, with Cambodia and Ethiopia, so it's really embarrassing to see the countries under us and above us. So, why are we like this? When you came to power, we didn't say that justice in Turkey was in perfect condition, but it's a fact that no time has ever been this bad. The main reason for this is that from 2002 until now and then, the coup attempt, the justice, the judicial arrangements after the coup attempt... now, in the middle, a community has become a terrorist organization, and what legal arrangements are needed for that? In fact, their determination will explain the functioning of our Parliament and the situation we're in. Now, whatever legal arrangement he needed, the congregation at the time, we now see that it is being carried out here by your hands. One of the things that came out of the written indictments today and was determined by our prosecutors is that the cases of Ergenekon, Sledgehammer and so on were the preparation of July 15th, the preparation of the coup attempt on July 15th. Before those conspiracy cases, some legal infrastructure was needed. Mr. Yilmaz just said that here. To illustrate, look, some of the articles of the new Penal Code, the expansion of the establishment and jurisdiction of special-duty courts, the obstruction of lawyers' access to the case file, secret testimony, the trial of soldiers in judicial courts for duty crimes, obstruction of litigation against judges and prosecutors, and, most importantly, the gold strike of the job, the Constitutional Amendment. Now, in all of this, as the Republican People's Party, we have expressed why, for what reasons we object, you have not listened, and we have been justified in all of our claims as of today. And Turkey experienced the July 15 coup attempt. So what happened next, guys? On July 20th, the State of Emergency was declared and we entered a period when the regime was changed in Turkey. Now, dear friends, the nation who chose us here in the first place expects us to have national will. Parliamentaries have two basic tasks: legislation and control. Is there not, or is there not, a large number of arrangements that are not related to the State of Emergency? It's being done, and the representatives of this House remain silent? Any of you guys want to say a word about the abolition of national will? There are dozens of KHKs about the State of Emergency. Look, I'll tell you a few examples: What's a change in the Law on Bankruptcy 2004 got to do with fighting? Or what does 1.698 TL have to do with the fight against the vehicle without a license plate? Or does the removal of the sentence to those who publish biased during the election period have anything to do with the fight against ا, friends? As members of the House, why are we silent about all this? Now, we call it national will, national will. If the representatives here remain silent when the national will is being declared, what do you mean by that if he doesn't make a sound? In fact, today, perhaps in a democratic country, in a developed country, this bill that we're talking about here may be very important, but as far as we're concerned, these are details now, friends. They make up little pieces of the whole, of the whole, of the great failure. So that's how it's arranged here today, today, the head of the district administration court's powers have been increased, reduced; HSK has chosen the business department of the member there, and someone else has chosen it, and the Council of Presidents has chosen it. Actually, it doesn't really matter much where we came from today. Now, when mentioned in the July 15 coup attempt and after -- actually I wasn't going to go into it -- but this was just discussed -- sir, it was going to be walked against tanks, from here, from Ankara to Istanbul. So on and so forth. Dear friends, why don't you give me an example? Is there a single person in the government who's ever been on top of a tank? President out, Prime Minister out, ministers out, guys out? Or can you answer this question? As a member of the coup commission, we said, as members of the Republican People's Party at the Impact Research Commission, let's ask for HTS records of the state and the state's heads of state, everyone in authority, where he was that day, without conflict. Why were these AKP members rejected by their votes? We wouldn't have had any of these arguments, it was easier. Look, that commission received a statement from the Deputy Undersecretary of the Prime Minister, saying that Mr. Prime Minister Besiktas is leaving his place after he's moved from his office in Dolmabahce to his residence in Tuzla, and that there's been a coup attempt, not a fact -- and there's no data -- to the Prime Minister's residence after the phone traffic -- and that's what he's been hiding in the middle of a tunnel in the mountains of Ilgaz. As head of the administration, you don't mind that the Prime Minister is hiding in a tunnel, and you say that you're ignoring him saying that as soon as he finds out that day he wants to return to Ankara and that he wants to return to Ankara and that he wants to keep the national will and that you're fighting it. Look, the first principle of fighting all terrorist organizations is to support domestic peace. Who in this country divides society, polarizes society, terrorizes an important part of society, almost terrorizes half of society, it's dynamited domestic peace, aiding and abetting terrorism in the larger picture. Dear friends, now, look, the Republican People's Party's march has obviously been very uncomfortable. But remember, our last election slogan in the last semester was, we said, "If there is a Republican People's Party, there is one for everyone." I mean, two years ago today, I didn't really think it would be this comprehensive. Today, for all our citizens who have not voted for the Republican People's Party, who have not taken politics in the Republican People's Party, who may never pass our door, the Republican People's Party. The leader of the Republican People's Party... you know, when you're arguing about leadership here, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the boss, you're the boss, you're the boss, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader, you're the leader. (Applause) Mr. President-in-Chief, I'm walking. He said, as a result of that march, the Republican People's Party believes in democracy in Turkey, the republic's citizens met and ended with a great final in Maltepe. Actually, there's a lesson to be learned here. If there's millions there, which is the issue of polemics. I'm running out of time, and that's actually one of the things I'm going to talk about. So there's an argument coming up at the point of number, and it's explained to foreign press how many are the numbers. They say the People's Party of the Republic has taken a walk of justice. The number in the Walk of Justice is not what they say it is, but it's actually like this. And do you know who he tells it to? He tells foreign press, the networks. If any Republican People's Party MP were to appear in Turkey today and make a single statement to the foreign press that criticises power, 50 scripts would be written, no, I don't know, a lot of charges would be made. If this country's President Republican People's Party's Justice March has come to the point of complaining to foreign countries, it is obviously in a very difficult situation, the Republican People's Party's power is very close. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0199par0198	Thank you, Mr. Emre.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0200par0199	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0199par0200	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0200par0201	Mr. Zeynel said that the Prime Minister was hiding in the Ilgaz Tunnel or something. It's an open taunt. I demand word in that frame.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0201par0202	Don't tease the Prime Minister...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0199par0203	Here, two minutes, please...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0202par0204	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0199par0205	Mr. Sky, you know this is a taunt.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0202par0206	No, no, there's nothing wrong with that, so it could be a human motive.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0199par0207	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0203par0211	Mr. President, dear friends, the coup d'état is certainly not the object of opposition, but of power.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0204par0212	Sir, where was the Prime Minister, really?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0203par0213	Because in the hierarchy of government administration, the people on the hill want to eliminate them first, they want to enter. The first target is the President, the second target is the Prime Minister; you know it, and we know it. You know about the assassination attempt on Mr. President. Mr. President doesn't need to get on top of any tank, Mr. Zeynel. He's already taken a challenging stand against all tanks that evening, and that's what leadership is like. There were people from many parties looking for me that night, asking, "What's going on?" What they all said as partners was, he must come out and speak to the public, because in order for the people to do anything against these coupters, he must fire a flare. It was true, it was that night, and Mr. Recep did it. Now, he did it, he did it, and I don't want to get into that competition, but anyone with a conscience and a sense of right knows what he did, what the Prime Minister did. At the beginning of the coup, the prime minister was hooked up to television and signalled the resistance. Of course, this person has the right to defend himself and continue to fight the coupgers, which is perfectly legitimate. Now, the process here...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0205par0216	Don't you have Kemal Kilicdaroglu?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0206par0217	Kemal Beyin...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0203par0218	Mr. Kilicdaroglu also opposed the coup, of course he opposed it.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0207par0219	That's not what the President says.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0208par0220	Let's hand it to him.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0203par0221	I mean, these kind of comparisons, who did what back then, did they happen like this? The public knows exactly what everyone's doing.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0207par0222	God knows.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0203par0223	But basically, these people... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...totally opposed this blow. I think we should all draw the bottom of this together. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0209par0228	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0210par0229	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0209par0230	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0210par0231	Mr. President, for the record...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0209par0232	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0210par0235	And indeed, it will then be written down. I, too, gathered with our friends in our headquarters on the coup attempt that night, came to the conclusion that this was a coup attempt and shared it with our president, the first instruction we received from our President: I am returning to Ankara. And you, please, go to the House with all your friends immediately, and hold your national will. Tell all the AKP people that we, the Republican People's Party, are against the coup. On that day, we arrived here with all our deputies who were in Ankara on Friday, along with the MPs who were present in Ankara because the Assembly was closed, and we had historical talks with Mr. Justice Minister, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, many ministers and Speakers including Mr. Süleyman Soylu. After my speech, after my speech on the stand, the Minister of Justice has taken his word. As he was talking, the bomb went off, right over there, and all the chandeliers shook and shook. I mean, there's a party that puts your life on the line. We did it not for the AKP, but for Turkish democracy, for national sovereignty. That's all our sincere feelings, that's our faith. If the same thing happened today, we'd do it again. There's no hesitation in that.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0209par0237	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0210par0238	But at the same time, Mr. President, we leave our rights to no one. While we were putting our lives on the line that day, the Minister of Justice was here, and we were here, and the AKP MPs were here, and we were here.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0211par0239	Thank you...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0209par0240	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0210par0241	So, none of us have been in front of the coup before the separation, and I can safely say that the landing of the bomb in parliament was after the Republican People's Party and the other opposition had been in parliament. The failure of the coupters' motivation stemmed from opposition MPs' determination to come to parliament and have a national will, and the coupters were afraid of it, so they dropped the bombs on the Assembly.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0209par0242	Well, thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0210par0243	We're proud of what we've done, and we're proud of what we've done, but we don't let anyone take away our rights, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0209par0245	Okay, fine, fine. Yes, lawmakers, we're going to do the QA for 20 minutes now. In ten minutes of this time, I will take the questions of the MPs, and in the remaining ten minutes, Mr. Secretary will answer these questions. Mr. Division, let's start with you, please.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0212par0251	Mr. Minister, the Justice Ministry's proposal has reduced the Court of Judges' Court of Prosecutors' Court 28 district administrative courts to 8°, and in response to the declaration that courts will be established on business volume and geographical territory, its average basis is 11,000 year-on-year, the third-largest court after Istanbul and Ankara, and the Adana District Administration Court has been shut down and has been linked to its regional court, which has an average basis of 4,000 years. Since the geographic region was not observed, the Mediterranean region was unfortunately not courted either. A decision on the closure of the Adana District Administration Court must be reviewed, considering the transfer of the cases, the outcome of the files, the irreparable damage due to appeals. Could there be an attempt on the re-opening of the Adana District Administration Court in accordance with the institutional law?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0209par0252	Mr. Durmaz...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0213par0253	Thank you, Mr. President. The most critical problem in our country's economy is the current one. According to the Central Bank data, the payment balance for May was $5.2 billion short. That's a 68-percent open increase from the previous year. This is a sign that there are serious problems in our country. Do you have a program that will comfort the industrialist, the small tradesman, the artist, the manufacturer, the farmer, all the citizens? We're waiting for your explanation. The import move, which was brought up in dry beans and red peppers to reduce food inflation, also came on the agenda for wheat, the most strategic product. The tax, 35 per cent protecting the local manufacturer, will be reset to import. What kind of work do you have to cover for the wheat producer?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0214par0256	Thank you. Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0215par0258	Mr. Secretary, are you planning on taking precautions, following the extraordinary ban on state-of-the-art, unusual practices in prisons, and hearing violence against prisoners and prisoners? Why hasn't Samsun Prison and Punishment been finished for years while new prisons are being built? Will it be improved, if the Queen's Cross is half open and in prison, to expand the area? What is the purpose of air conditioning and sports restrictions in prisons? How many prisoners are there in prison? How many prisoners are there at child's age? How many starving people are trapped in prison for theft?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0214par0259	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0216par0260	Mr. Secretary, there is a large lack of staff in district courthouses and district administration courts, which is causing a delay in business and justice. When do you plan to compensate for this lack of personnel? Two: there are major difficulties in reaching regional administration and district court courts via the IYAP. When are you going to fix this setback? Three: the judicial judiciary of Denizli province is held in Antalya district judiciary, and the administrative judiciary depends on the district judiciary of İzmir. There are great challenges and difficulties in pursuing the work of fellow lawyers. The commitment to the regional judiciary, which conducts these two judgments in the same province, is important for the pursuit of judicial work. We want these two trials to be tied to district courts in the same county. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0217par0264	Thank you, too. Mr. Ascendant...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0218par0266	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you know, after recent operations, the concentration of prisons has increased greatly. We've been told from our phone calls that there are 10-15 people in cells or in wards who have to sleep in shifts, who are far above the bounds of a prisoner, who have to sleep in shifts, who have to sleep in two or three. Again, the intense demand for us is probably coming to you, too, about whether or not supervised freedom will be rearranged and whether or not there will be parole for certain crimes. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0219par0269	Thank you, Mr. Okan Yüksel. Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0220par0271	Thank you, Mr. President. On the anniversary of July 15th, is there a purpose and purpose and benefit to make it look like a loser, who has been handed over by his nation to use weapons, bombs, planes, and, in some cases, by its people? What will be the contribution of the perception to the fight against the army and against the nation with such visuals as these? Do you think only soldiers played an active role in the traitor attempt on July 15th? As if there were no other elements involved in the coup attempt? Why were the names of Fetullah Gulen, Fair Orphan, Şaban Toothli, Zechariah Öz not included in the ruling staff of the organization? Why is the extradition of Fetullah Gülen still not done? Will you, as the ministry, make an attempt to disparage the Turkish Armed Forces, to ensure that these posters will never be used again, blaming the martyrdom of our 249 citizens, July 15th, which has been discredited? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0221par0274	Thank you. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0222par0276	Minister, the courthouse in Denizli is inadequate. The delivery of the new courthouse should be made in 2016, while construction has now stopped. We'd like the building to be re-trialed, and we want the courthouse to be finished quickly and put to work. At the moment, legal services are being provided in rooms divided in the corridors of the Denizli court. In addition, five executive agencies are trying to serve in the former courthouse mansions where the physical conditions are very bad. We're waiting for this deficiency to be resolved immediately. Two: The judiciary has been brought to a full-fledged judiciary during your ministry. When will your judgment be independent? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0223par0279	Mr. Division...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0224par0280	Mr. Minister, the people of the region are suffering a great loss due to the closure of the courthouse building in Saimbeyli district of Adana. Saimbeyli is a town in which access is difficult due to geographical and climate conditions. A court building in the district of Saimbeyli, a distance of 168km from Adana, is not being processed. The court must be reopened and the people of the region should be rewarded for employment. Citizens in the largest territorial district of Adana, with three neighborhoods in 25 villages and centers, expect support from the state. The opening of the courthouse building in our district of Saimbeyli will strengthen the trust and faith of our countrymen.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0223par0281	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0225par0282	Mr. Secretary, we're hearing reports in the media today that some of the monuments will be opened to development. We're hoping this story will be unrealistic. We are hereby warning the child to warn the child before his test is broken. The memorial is a high place where our national, spiritual, and moral values are concentrated, the permanent residence of our savior. The attack on this place should be known to be an attack on all of us. In light of this assessment, we'd like to know what the real situation is.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0223par0283	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0226par0284	Thank you, Mr. President. Regarding cases of poisoning in barracks in recent months, can you explain to us what kind of control mechanism and process has been carried out by the removal of the GATA (GATA) and the services of food health and safety? Is it proper for the Turkish Armed Forces to remove food services from the public area and privatise them and deliver them to the highest profit mentality at the lowest cost? Is there any particular reason for you to ignore public discomfort about the fact that the Turkish Armed Forces have power-referencing companies in most of our cities who are also buying food tenders at the same time, and that they are clearly protected by power? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0227par0287	Mr. Durmaz...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0228par0288	The recently announced production reform package included nine districts, including our province, Tokat. In order for this package to be effective, the manufacturer will need additional arrangements to be made immediately. Where are the new generation industrial sites? Do you have a government at this stage to work on a new loan in favor of small tradesmen and artists? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0227par0290	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0229par0291	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. The question of the district court of justice is Mr. Literal: As you know, the law on the establishment of a district court court in the district court in 2004, the law on the establishment of a district court in the judicial court in 2014, but its actual operation in the field is July 20, 2016 (July 20, 2016). Earlier, there were 15 decisions made by the Judges and Prosecutors' Council on the establishment of a district court and the establishment of a regional administrative court in eight places. Of course, when these courts are set up, they need to be assigned first-class judges and prosecutors, including the number of judges and prosecutors we have. Also, since these were the first practices, the decision was made to act on seven of the district court courts in the first place, with broad consultations by the judiciary, and seven of them were appointed. And he'll be doing a full year next Thursday. Of course, after these appointments, the district court has performed some really important activities, and I especially want to express it, because I would like to say that both in the right course of justice and in the acceleration of the judiciary and in the early access to the rights of the citizens, in the reduction of the workforce of the high judiciary, in the increase of the accuracy of decisions, in the emergence of financial truth, there have been many, many, many achievements. If you'll excuse me, the figures have been agreed on in 154,008 of the 196,829 cases that have come to the district court criminal offices so far. There are 42,821 files available, 78% of the decision-making rate, 8.779 (8.7.7.77% of the total 154,008 decisions given by the criminal agencies, and 5.77% of the appeal rate is...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0230par0296	How many?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0229par0297	5.7. This shows that if you don't appeal, the appeals are subject to a citizen's consent to the decision, which means the number's low, which shows the accuracy of the decision. In 172,611 cases brought to the district court's legal offices, the verdict has been made on 116,291. So that's the important number. The district administration court... now that I've given the district court courts, there's an administrative court, but I can't find him.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0231par0301	Will you give them to us in writing, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0229par0302	Yeah, yeah, we'll do that. This shows: What are the judgments doing? Within a year, most of it will be completed in the store. These are very important, which means that the late justice is no longer justice. It's about the district administration courts, of course, the law office -- we just skipped it, and now let me say -- a total of 17,607 (17,291) of the 116,291 verdicts have been appealed, and according to this, the appeal rate is 15 per cent, the appeal rate is 15 per cent in the decisions of the legal agencies is 15 per cent. A total of 74,729 decisions are being made by district administration courts. A total of 9.882% of these decisions have been appealed, 13.2% of appeals. That's the thing about administrative judgment. Now, we've opened 15 of them, but this year we've decided to officially launch our Adana County Courthouse. In addition, we have decided to officially launch our District Court of Justice of Bursa, and we've appointed them, and we've now identified them as subsidiary heads, office heads, apartment members, prosecutors. As of September 1, 2017, our District Courthouse Court of Justice in Adana will be in operation, as will Bursa. The remaining six districts of our courthouses are scheduled to act on all of them in stages by 2019. In 2018, we will activate some of them, and the rest will be operational by September 2019. And that's because it's about the number and quality of judges and prosecutors we have, because we can't give everyone to the court of law as judges, prosecutors, there needs to be a certain ranking. Hence, he is delayed by these trials. Otherwise, we actually wish to activate them immediately, but I'd like to point out that by 2019, they'll all be operational. But as for the administration courts, we've established seven of the eight administrative courts, and we're not going to build the 8th, because the 7 administrative courts have the need, so we don't need the 8th one right now. According to the data we have, we don't need to establish a new administrative account, we don't plan a new one, but we don't know what the conditions will bring in the future, but based on the current situation, we don't plan to establish an administrative computation other than those who are operating. There's one set up, and we don't plan on assigning it because it's really not necessary. As you already know, the case is being investigated, it's being decided, and there's nothing wrong with that.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0232par0306	Mr. Secretary, our questions are incomplete.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0229par0307	So I'd like to make it very clear from here that there are no problems with the access of the citizen.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0233par0308	Mr. Secretary, you haven't moved on.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0229par0309	Of course, it is related to this question, one other thing Mr. Division said: we have some closed courts, do we have any study of reopening them? There is no study at the moment in our Ministry for reopening closed courts.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0234par0310	Minister Hanitkabir, we'd like an answer to the Memorial.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0229par0311	We don't plan to open closed courthouses because they've really been shut down in the past. I don't have five county courthouses in my county. Mr. Cemil was then Minister of Justice, and Yozgat, you know, he's from Yozgat -- he's from Yozgat -- he just closed five in our place. What's this? It's right for the country, so it's got 2,000 people, 3,000 people, next to it, 10 kilometers to the courthouse, 10 kilometers to the courthouse, there's another courthouse. I mean, everybody's got to put their hands on their conscience. This decision we're making is a politically invoice. We've already paid for it, we've already paid for it, but we've already paid for it, of course, where it's really needed, you know, big, I mean, it's evolved, it's changed over time, it's migrated, it's possible for other reasons, but there's no new need for the courts that we've closed. In the near future, there is no possibility of opening these courts, and I'd like to express that in particular. Samsun prison construction is built by TOKI. Since the initial tender failed to complete during the firm's deadline, the tender has been re-supplyed. When the construction is completed, the delivery will be made. The construction of the queen bridge prison is closely monitored the repairs needed in all prisons. Of course, we do these constructions, the contractor doesn't fulfill his commitments during his time, and then there are a lot of problems due to the tender legislation. So things are getting longer, and you can't do it right away, and in some places, unfortunately, there are problems from that, and I'd like to express that in particular. How many people are in detention prisons in Turkey? There are 1,737 children under arrest in prisons -- everyone is considered children until, as you know, 18 years old. There are 1,047 prisoners in prison. So there are 2,784 prisoners, 1,047. As of today, there are 85,406 prisoners in Turkey's prisons.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0235par0314	A memorial, a memorial...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0229par0315	In other words, there is no prisoner in Turkey's prisons who uses the same bed.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0236par0316	There's lots, there's lots.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0229par0317	There is no zoning, no zoning of monuments. I just read a statement from Melih Gökçek Bey on the Internet today, and if you read it from there...
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0237par0319	Let the president answer.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0238par0320	Mr. Secretary, complete, please. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0229par0321	Mr. Gravity has an explanation online, and if you look at it, there's detailed information because I was in the Council of Ministers today, I was in the MGK. But I don't think Ankara Metropolitan Municipality or any mayor will consider the development of the Memorial. There's something different about his explanation, but there's a distortion of the Architects' Room, it's not real, okay?
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0237par0322	Mr. Secretary, it would be madness, madness, nothing more.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0229par0323	I mean, it's not real, it's just that there's a place that the Ministry of National Defense is currently, in fact, using. He's not in the memorial, he's on the other side, but if you read that statement... I'm worried about misinformation. He said it had something to do with him, so it's not a new construction.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0239par0324	Madam Secretary, there is a precedent for the garrison section.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0240par0325	Mr. Secretary, please come in.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0229par0326	Gee, that's all wrong and not right. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Melih has made his statement, and now it's in the media, where the Chamber of Architects misinformation the public.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0240par0329	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0241par0330	Our questions are shot.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit04spe0240par0331	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-07-17sit05spe0240par0001	I now open the Fifth Session of the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 490. There's no commission, it's postponed. Congressmans, since there are no other jobs on our agenda, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (July 18th 2017) to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00. I bid you good night.
