tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 69th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, it's Valentine's Day. Love is the most important concept of our lives that makes life meaningful. Without love, everything is incomplete. In societies that have lost love, the feeling of solidarity fades over time. Unloved also destroys bonds that keep society strong together. Without love, we will have no joy in common, nor will we have mourning in common. As Haci Bektas, the loving man of this land, said: Why hate when there is love? Why fight when there's peace? Why fight when there's a brotherhood? What's the hostility when there's friendship? Why bigotry when you can tolerate it? Why be a prisoner when there's freedom? Why is there injustice when there is justice? [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] After these beautiful verses of Haci Bektas, one feels as if one has said everything about love, but love is such a profound concept that there are people in our literature who study it so deeply that if I don't mention the two of them, this love speech in Valentine's Day will be so incomplete. I especially want to talk about two poets: one to Cemal Düzya, the other to Sezai Karakoch. He takes love and a lover to Jamal during his extraordinary architecture of sadness, with his desert, on a journey that will never end. Really, when you get caught up in this journey, you want this journey to never end, never end. Sezai Karakoc, on the other hand, takes the concept of civilization into a framework that surrounds all areas of our life in the poem "Beloved, O beloved, O beloved, O beloved, from the land of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital." On the Day of Valentine's Day of February 14th, in the hope that a feeling as strong as love will preserve its place in our hearts and society, I offer my sincerest love to all those who continue to carry love in your heart despite all the negatives, and to you, my dear fellow congressman. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0002par0027	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today is the second day of fasting, one of the sacred days of the Aleki faith and teaching. I pray that all the souls should be put on the right judge of their fasts. On that day, the Al-Azil (Abraham) will fast for three days (i.e. three days). They will fast for three days (i.e. three days) in the name of their chiefs, for the sake of Allah. He is the guardian of a narrow day for the poor and the weak. He is not created out of nothing. He is everywhere, the name of longing and hope, the one who shares the suffering of the afflicted. He is the Forgiving, the Loving, the Knowing. That's why when you're called up, it's called the gray horse and the horse, the speed, the resurrection of nature. The land of Hizir shall die. He is the harbinger of spring, the blessing of nature, the reflection of rebirth. He who resists, does not swear, protects the oppressed, the right and the justice. He has always been the protector of the oppressed against the oppressor, and he will continue to be. In the month of Hizir, they pray to the universe, to humanity, to nature, to water, to fire, to rebirth. It's a month to reconsider your soul, conscience, moral standing. Hýzýr promises us that he will return to his ancient history, to his roots, to all the Alevi religious communities, to his roots, to his rebirth. They're loyal to the Pir suitors, the suitors, the priines, the confederates, the renegotiates, the renegotiation of our agreements. Alevis are the people of the faith and doctrine of the land, the fire, the water, the sun, which receives the prayer. The path is love, light, love, hope. The speed is the way, the love, the love, and the hope. He is the Knower of the road. He who knows the way knows it, and he who knows it. To be separated from the path is to be separated from their own sanctity. The delights are dedicated to peace, to humanity and to the universe, to the poor. The unity of our nation's people, the solidarity of its people, the growth of its moral values. The delights are dedicated to women, children, and those who are in need. Semahs, their breaths, their conversations, are dedicated to those who resist for the sake of the people, because Hizir is the companion and helper of those who call for freedom, for those who seek truth, for those who are in distress. I'd like to read you a poem, a poem written to Hizir, and a thank you: "We are in the hand of Hizir, the tyrant and the tyrant, in the tongue of the needy. We are in the mouth of the poor. / You've been hard on us, you've been hopeful/ We've forgotten you, you've forgotten us? Are you far away? And [mention, O Muhammad], when you dived into the valleys, and became a prophet in the mountains, and you brought forth the moon and the sun, and you brought forth the darknesses into the light. / Don't you know what's written, what's read, what's cult, what's on the road, what's tied to fleas? / Have you seen the life you've been given consent to, trying to get a clean bill of health? / Who has come to the face of the righteous, who has gone to the door of the righteous, have you heard of the lover? / Have you seen him who swims in the realm of truth, who knows the path of truth, giver of truth, giver of justice, knower of the secret of truth, purim/ Iqrar, confessor, confessor, confessor, giver of justice? / It's not the millet of wantlessness, where's the master of affection? / The fire of the fallen furnace has gone out or the prim/// or the speed of it. He used to say that you'd travel with the learned, the ramrid, the Varto, the Kiğülı/ Mountain deer, what would you hope for, and what would happen to you? / No one's seen you lately/ I'll call on Horasan. I can't get the king out of my mind. What underwear are you in? / Or do you also call the secret of the One who cannot understand? / Go into my dream one night. See the men who rise up in the morning and turn to right, who are willing to become brothers, I know you'll appear in a thousand underpants; once Moses, you were Babek; once Eba Müslim, Hallaç, you became my progeny, you became Pir Sultan, but I wonder which panties you'll be seen again. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0003par0033	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. The second off-the-book statement is from Erzincan MP Serkan Bajram, who wants to mark the 99th anniversary of Erzincan's release from enemy occupation on February 13th. We too are celebrating Erzincan's salvation. Here you go, Mr. Bayram.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0004par0039	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, our last speaker friend, mentioned the bet on the fast, which was held on the second day of fasting. And I wish that this fast, which our brothers and sisters of Alevi have fasted, be blessed, and that Allah will accept it. A fasting hope, a future, a vision. I'm just saying, hopefully, in the new era, it'll be an expression of hope and vision for our country. Again, our president gave a speech about the importance of a good day, about Valentine's Day, February 14th. We say we have love for our people. I propose that February 14th, along with Valentine's Day, be a day of love for the nation, and to my great Assembly. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] February 13th is the day our Erzincan declared that no power could be stopped by the struggle for salvation, by epic writing, by the determination and zeal of our nation. Our Erzincan, in the absence of his brave, brave and patriotic people, has made this land, where we stepped on it with his younger and older in the circumstances of that day, and has proved to the world that our moon-star flag will not be brought down from heaven forever. In the years when the national struggle spread in Asia Minor, Gazi Mustafa Kemal had honored them in the torch of freedom that had been burned by the Ghazi Mustafa Kemal. He showed his spirit here and proved that he would never submit to captivity with all his members as one heart, one wrist. Our high-value lawmakers, recently, on July 15th, there was a certain, treacherous coup attempt, and we fought for a second survival war. By eliminating the democratically elected legitimate President, the government and Parliament, the country's future has been tried to play with the fate of our country's future, as well as with violence, threats and methods to rule out its own will. They also bombed the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the strategic institutions of our state and carried out these treacherous attacks. But our nation's upright stance, with the strength of our President and Prime Minister, has struck our nation against those who have struck. In order for such an event not to happen, arrangements are also under the rule of emergency and continue. In this process, as always, I thank our commander-in-chief, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his companion, Mr. Buli Yıldırım Bey, all our ministers and deputies, our soldiers, our policemen, and our saint nation. On the Day of February 13th, I greet my fellow saints with respect and conversation. On this occasion, our beloved martyrs who fought against the same country's love for Erzincan, who didn't hand Erzincan, who had not surrendered Erzincan to the enemy, who was also the son of Refahiya, who was the son of our brother Furkan Yayla, who was also the martyr of our brother, Murat Tevlim of Erzincan, who died on the night of the July 15th coup, and who died against the terror organizations of this land.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0005par0046	Thank you, Mr. Bayram. To our fallen soldiers, we, the Presidential Court, pray for God's mercy, our condolences to the Turkish Armed Forces and our nation. Again, I wish that the fasts and the meetings of our citizens who fasted should be accepted in the Right Way. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Balıkesir MP Namik Havutça, who wants to speak about Balıkesir's problems. Here you go, Mr. Havut.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0006par0057	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book oath on the issues of Balıkesir, and I salute your grand delegation. Dear MPs Balıkesir is the land of Kuvasimiliya, Balıkesir is the land where the torch of freedom and independence is lit, the organization is made, the first and last bullet fired. In short, Balıkesir is like the summation of the Battle of Salvation. The first bullet was fired in Ayvalık, and the last bullet was fired in Aydırma Aystar Tepe. Balıkesir is a city of heroes. He is the hero of Çanakkale, the land of the great Seyit, who raised up the 276kg of cannons in the battle of Çanakkale, and brought them to their knees in imperialism, and is the land of Havran. And now he is among us, the grandson of the great Seyit, Sadullah, who is watching us now, proud of his father. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My fellow countrymen, in Balıkesir, we have taken these lands with blood and struggle, but today they want to take the land of their ancestors from the hands of Balıkesirite. Look, we've got 1/100 at Balıkesir headquarters today. Last year, the Metropolitan Municipality approved the plan, and now the appeals, the lawsuits continue, but before they are finalised, the Justice and Development Party (AKP) municipality and other Kareesi Municipality are one-five. They approved and implemented the plans of 000. What the hell happened here? In Balıkesir, Turkey has its 2nd largest small industrial site, friends, 1,100 shops, 10,000 employees. He has no knowledge of these things; the city city council has decided that he will build a mall here, build a residence, build a business centre; he has sold our shop, his wife's bracelet, sold his children's circumcision gold, bought a store, and sent out the painter master Solomon, who has eaten bread from there for thirty years, and the painter Ismail master. Where they'll go, what they'll do, no credit, no money! These people are facing this kind of problem today. We warn the municipality from here: Know your place, do not attack the rights of the citizen. Dear MPs, look, there's a big runt around Balıkesir again. In the village of Balıkesir, near the centre, 470 acres were bought by senior politicians' advisors before the planning was made, and closed down these places where the villagers had bought cheaply, providing them with a large zoning rate right now. Is that just there? No. In the village of Balya Mustecap, we will do organised industry there. They cover the return of the villagers with their attitude, with their plan, for 3,000 liras, for 2,000 liras. We saw this scenario in Bandirma. By turning the villager's turnover into an industrial site for 10,000 liras, they've provided an increase of up to $200,000 on its anniversary. We're here to warn the Justice and Development Party government, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. Some of these lands are increased by the games of Ali Genghis, the rank of this nation, and the rank of the people; and do not pursue capital, but we warn it from here. Again, our Silence Sugar Factory. It's an important economic potential of the region, and it's really not just animalism, it's not breeding. There are 353 people working there for today alone, and the potential economic value it offers Turkey per year is $1 million, and now the local farmer is in great pain because of the wrong sugar policy of the Justice and Development Party. We're calling from here: Two years ago, the sugar factory, which signed 8,000 manufacturers, is now contracting only 500 farmers. The region's residents wish that the sugar factory be immediately taken the necessary measures for Rantabl work in Susurluk. My fellow lawmakers, today, Mr. President has made a beautiful opening - a time in need of love, peace, brotherhood. I'd like to finish my words with a beautiful poem by Orhan Veli. If I cry, will you hear my voice? Can you touch it, My tears, your hands? I didn't know your songs were so beautiful. Before I got into this mess. I say, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0007par0074	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Members of parliament, the non-responsive talks carried out under Article 59 of the Interior Charter have been terminated. Now, I'm going to make a commitment to lawmakers who are entering the electronic system demanding a word by keeping an eye on the order of demand. I'm starting the promise process. Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0008par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Let the Fasting, the Fasting, be the Fasting of the Fasters. In today's private, I wish that no one would remain unloved and love would embrace our lives. During the weekend, I visited the districts, towns and villages in Niğde Province once again. Our village villages have different problems, but the manufacturers in Farm Bozköy, Azatlı, Kula, Sheikhs left the potatoes in storage, and because the merchant didn't even pay for them, they're in storage now. They want to announce their voices to the government because in a month or two, a freckle could occur. They say that if they don't encourage and support, the potato will rot like it did last year. They want the government to act on this as soon as possible. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0009par0085	Mr. Tiger Liberty...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0010par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. In the 2010 referendum, the ruling owners, who defame national will and lay the foundation of the coups, now declare those who say no are terrorists and coupgers. In your 15 years of rule, you said "yes" with PKK, and you said "yes" with. So when the victims of these plots are still in our memory, the power-altering partnership of Ergenekon and Sledgehammer conspiring against the Ataturkian officers, they'll become fuckers when they say no? That's exactly why we say no because you're equating the citizen with the PKK. We say no because you sat in a lap with terrorist organizations yesterday. We say no because you've been cheated and you've been double-crossed all the time. We call the scientist, the artist, the author, the painter, the worker, the farmer, the miner, the journalist, anyone who doesn't obey, no. We're not going to use it, and we're not going to step on the presidential mine.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0011par0090	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0012par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish you a good day from here to all our citizens. Many tobaccos are produced in the districts of Eşme and villages of the baneman. Farmers and manufacturers' tobacco was identified and acquired by experts, but after two months, tobacco still did not recover from farmers; the villagers were not given an advance of $1. In addition, a purchase is made several times lower than the initial payment written in the contract. That's how they set the prices, and the farmer is a victim. By the way, I would like to reiterate that the problems of our very valuable chiefs -- as I spoke last week -- are not solved by depositing their social insurance by the state, making their salaries at $1,750, and raising our heads to five-quarters. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0013par0097	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0014par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. The president's children, the Prime Minister's children, take ships on ships, the ministers' children say a few pennies to trillions, while the children of this country also die on Syrian soil. And now, with the amendment, these gentlemen dream of excusing their 18-year-old children from military service and making them lawmakers. On the other hand, as shown in this photograph, they race to pose at the martyr's funeral, pushing the martyr's father with respectable elbows. Today, our citizen, Mehmet Akkoyun, was stabbed to death by three Syrians, and Yusuf Yurdakul, who wanted to separate the fight, was severely injured. I pray for God's mercy on our departed brother, and for our wounded brother's speedy healing. I invite those in charge to stop preaching to the eunuchs and answer for the situation in which they have brought Turkey down. I wish you a good day, thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0015par0103	Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0016par0105	Any product produced in our country is a multinational product. Of all the products produced by our farmers throughout our country, tobacco is one of the highest quality and highest level of tobacco production in Samsun. Production has now been shut down at the Samsun Bafra cigarette factory, which is called the Samsun, which is also among the number-one brands in Turkey and the world. The AKP has blocked our country's production of tobacco under pressure from international monopoly capital, and in 2017, the Ministry of Agriculture cut tobacco production out of nationally-based agricultural support. The AKP has again registered agricultural hostility and practices to the tobacco manufacturer. As the Republican People's Party Group to support tobacco and agricultural products, we will always be able to produce all kinds of support for our farmers...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0015par0107	Thank you, Mr. Zeybek. Mr. Burcu Koksal...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0017par0110	Mr. President, before the referendum on the Constitutional Amendment, we see that social polarization is being created between the "yes" and the "no." In the meantime, those who say yes can be declared a terrorist, a traitor, and expelled from their jobs while they continue to live their lives. The last example of this is our Afyonkarahisar citizen, who has successfully served in a media establishment, and our pride is Irfan Millerci. The miller who was fired because he said he would vote is not alone. All the patriots and millions of people of Opium are with Irfan Millerci, the valiant son of Afyon.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0015par0111	Mr. Selina Dogan...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0018par0113	Mr. President, the Danish-based freedom of expression organisation Freemuse announced his report on censorship, assault and rights violations of art and artists around the world in 2016. Turkey was ranked second in the report among the countries where serious rights violations against artists took place. Iran and Turkey follow Egypt, Nigeria, China, Malaysia, Syria, Tanzania and Uzbekistan in the first report, which included Iran and Turkey. Even this report shows where Turkey came from in AKP power. At the presidential Culture and Art Grand Awards ceremony, Mr. President said that the weakest linkes of our country's great transformation over the past 14 years are unfortunately made up of education and culture. To get Turkey off this blacklist, the pressure on art and artists must be terminated immediately; the special consumption tax removed from the yacht, yacht, boat and cotra must also be removed from culture and art products. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0019par0116	Dear Man...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0020par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish you the best of our work in the House. Our Flaming Brothers are fasting fasts. Let the fasts and the snacks be accepted. Again, it's Valentine's Day. I'm saying, of course, that we should not add love to a day, but to every moment of our lives. I want to remind you that a man flies with two wings; one is knowledge, the other is love. Again, I want to share two very beautiful verses from Haci Bektas: (Horses, grudges will be destroyed in our face with love) and the gazelles are friends with the lions are in our laps. Yes, we're going through a time when we need a lot of love and friendship. Therefore, I say no to those who threaten love, friendship, peace, brotherhood, those who divide us and those who divide us, thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0021par0122	Mr. Karbük...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0022par0124	The love of family and child, the love of nature, the love of nation, the love of homeland, our devotion to the republic, our gratitude and love for Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, these are our very important values. All our citizens celebrate Valentine's Day, happy with their loved ones, free with their loved ones, free with no hardship, and I wish them a good life in the light of the republic, where the rule of law prevails. Another point: university rectors are not allowed to do politics, they are forbidden by law. And it's never ethical for them to express their political views. However, I condemn the rectors who express their views and make all kinds of speeches by doing politics in their social media accounts. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0023par0127	Mr. Wellercuoğlu...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0024par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, the politics of dissolution and division began before the referendum began. It seems that in this referendum process, as every election period, we will see a lot of AKP policy of systematically polarizing our people. Based on this understanding, the AKP has also identified election propaganda in the referendum process: "No." Those who say "No." Now I want to remind you that when we say "No" to the PKK, you say "Yes." When we say "No," you say "Yes." Now we call dictatorship no. You say yes. You're the one who wants to divide the country, and you're the one who's going to oil the bread of all the forces with this amendment. How is it that people who say no because they love their homeland are declared terrorists? I say stay with love.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0025par0133	Mr. Yilmaztekin...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0026par0135	Mr. President, I condemn the vile assault on a young lady in a van in Maltepe, Istanbul. This attack has revealed the pathetic mood of a poor person who thinks he's modern, who thinks he owns this country. This attack still reveals the existence of a dark, ignorant mindset that dares to attack people's headscarf, faith and values like a rabid dog. I want to know that we will fight this mentality wherever and under no circumstances, where it comes from, and where it comes from, that a horny minority will never establish justice in this country. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0025par0137	Mr. Imran Sword...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0027par0139	Love is God's greatest blessing to us. People forget what they don't like. The worst of people is the one who doesn't love and isn't loved. If you can't get what you love, try to love what you get. The goal is not to die for love, but to find love to die for. Love leads to unity, selfishness leads to loneliness. If you don't have love, don't look for friends. To love is not to look eye to eye but to look in the same direction. To be loved is so much better than to love. To be loved, you have to be lovely. If you don't like something, you can't understand it and learn it. The requirement is not to be a burden. The task needs to be loved rather than taught. The unloved road is desolate even when it's crowded. Loving someone means thinking about making them happy. If thou lovest him who loves thee, but lovest thee not, then he that loveth thee is the sultan of Egypt. Love and hate need to be balanced.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0025par0140	Mr. Axe...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0028par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. Along with many of Turkey's provinces, the foundation of Tripoli was occupied by Russian troops in 1916. On 14 February 1918, the foundation was freed from the invasion of the enemy, which was famous for its strength and courage from the unity and unity of the brave people of Tripoli. I hereby celebrate the 99th anniversary of our foundation's salvation and the 14th February Valentine's Day of Valentine's. I give my regards and greetings to the people of Tripoli and to our beloved nation.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0025par0144	Thank you, Mr. Axe. I too celebrate the anniversary of the release of the foundation of an enemy invasion and send greetings to all the Foundationists. Dear İbrahim Aydemir...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0029par0151	Mr. President, 20 years ago, if someone had mentioned the winter Olympics in a city in Eastern Anatolia, it would not have been believable; if we had said that a province in this region would be among the 20 most important cities in the world in terms of sporting facilities, we would have found it far from serious. I've got a Erzurum in this field today with white investments in sporting dreams. This is the white approach that has taken up to 1 billion expenditures and has made Erzurum the world's winter sports center. The result of this view is that two days ago, we opened a massive international event -- the European Youth Winter Games Festival. The opening was great, the guests were very pleased. Our new goal is the world winter games, God willing. I want to thank Erzurum for his insight into the vision, especially our President, and for his fellow ministers, the government, and the contributors.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0025par0152	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0030par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. In the operation of the Fırat Shield, which filled its 176th day, our 67th martyr was Lieutenant Furkan Yayla, 24 years old. In the siege of El Bab, we sent Yayla, who had been killed by ISIS, on his last journey to Giresun Seele yesterday. I hereby offer him the grace of God, and my condolences to his family, to his comrades, to my fellow citizens of Sight and Çakakçı, and to our fellow MP Cemal Özturk. The citizen asks us at the funeral how many more martyrs will we give? What are we doing in Syria, in El Bab? Turkey calls on the Grand National Assembly and the government to establish a new strategy on the issue. The countries with accounts in Syria are asked to give up policies that serve the interests of sharing and sharing. I'd also like to ask the concerned minister: we know your idea of electing the Syrians who live in our country and provide every opportunity. Do you also plan to arrange for them to be drafted? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0031par0159	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0032par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Prime Minister: You claim that the constitutional amendment offer you're trying to bring is not a transition to one man, a dictatorship. So, why are there arrests, arrests, threats against those who advocate no? If you are doing so before the constitutional amendment is accepted, it is not difficult to predict what you will do if it passes. You've been in power for 15 years, and what authority is not enough for you? You've ruled the country alone for 15 years. In every election, you said we'd manage Turkey better, you didn't get enough, you didn't get enough. You ignored the public. Fifteen years ago, people who needed coal still need coal. In 15 years, you've unleashed a climate of fear all over the country. You've replaced the one who's not one of you, you've declared a terrorist. This policy of yours will be recorded as a black mark in history, so you should know that.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0033par0164	Thank you, Your Highness. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who are demanding a word. Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0034par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. So I celebrate February 14th, Valentine's Day, and I celebrate the day of all lovers. We're going through the days when we need love the most. We want to love each other and our country. Our motto as the National Movement Party is: "We love this country for nothing. " February 13th is the 99th year of Erzincan (February 14th) when the districts of Tripoli Foundation and Beşikdüzü were released from the Armenian and Russian occupation. May the souls of our nation, the troops under the command of Qazim Karabekir Pasha, and all our martyrs, be blessed, who have fought to write this epic salvation. Also, today is February 14th, the 8th year of the death of Bahtiyar Vakapzade, a great idealist of the Azerbaijan freedom movement, dedicated to his country and nation, and the great poet of Turkish literature, Bahtiyar Vakapzade. May his soul rest in peace and his place be in heaven. Mr. President, we're receiving very serious messages about the unassigned teachers today due to Mr. Minister of National Education's statement a few days ago. Mr. Minister of National Education announced that 20,000 teachers will be taken in February. Now, of course, when we look at earlier statements and the needs of the country, it seems that 20,000 is extremely limited and that it does not please our citizens. We, the National Movement Party, had a motion to make 50,000 appointments in February when the agency's law was discussed, but our motion was not accepted by the ruling group. Now, we have 450 thousand candidates for the appointment, and the need for teachers is 98,000, according to the Minister himself. According to a study by the Turkish Education Union last year in 73 provinces, there are 70,000 paid teachers in only 73 counties, so it is far from meeting the need for 20,000 appointments. Of course, there are also very, very serious planning flaws in our country.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0035par0174	I'm turning on your microphone, Mr. Master, please complete.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0034par0175	Some majors have recently stated that there will be no appointment. Now, of course, there's 14 years of power. Let's say the previous authorities made a mistake, you can say that, but why didn't 14 years of power plan it? So many students, so many graduates, and now we're standing here saying, for example, we're not going to make any appointment in sociology. So, what are these students going to do, what are they going to do? This is a serious, grave planning error. At least there'll be a proper plan for the next few days. Man is our most precious asset. We need to properly train our human resources in proper areas and make them an element of development. Now, we're constantly critical of the interview system at the teacher's purchases, and there are serious complaints about it. Here, a purchase model now based on merit and prioritizing KPSS will have to be implemented. The problems with interviews are often expressed. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0036par0179	Thank you, Mr. Master. Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0037par0182	Thank you, Mr. President. Only yesterday, only yesterday, 318 people from our party were taken into custody, including our party member, manager and employee. These political operations continued today, and many members and employees of the provinces, including Ankara, Van, Ağrı, Mush, have been taken into custody. We think these detentions are an open election campaign against our referendum work. I mean, there really is a charity campaign going on. Under this campaign, our co-chairs are still under arrest, as you know, and ten of our deputies are under arrest with them. Now, such an illegal referendum can't happen. This is indeed a process in which your legitimacy must be seriously questioned. We demand that all of our imprisoned friends be released immediately, followed by law. Yesterday was the 50th anniversary of the Revolutionary Workers' Unions Confederacy. We also salute the struggle of the working class in Turkey and hope that the days ahead will be good for a country where everyone will have a human job and a fee. Yeah, February 14th, we'd like to celebrate today, but for February 14th, especially, there's a motto for feminist women, no equality, no love. We don't want gifts, we want equality. Today, they called for a meeting at Beşiktaş Square in Istanbul in 7:30.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0038par0187	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Kerestecioglu. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0037par0188	Thank you. In the old days, when a man killed a woman, he used to make headlines about the murder of love. Women have told me for years that fighting and killing and violence have nothing to do with love, and they will continue to tell. Truly, either you are mine or your land. In this land, Valentine's Day is something that can only be celebrated in the form of equality and freedom of women. So today, I'm inviting all the women to spend a little bit of February 14th and stick together with other women on the streets. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0039par0191	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0040par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. I hope the beautiful and meaningful speech you made when you opened the House will remind the rulers of their responsibilities. It is a fact that we have become more polarized and the seeds of hate have been thrown out by the ruling and executives, and that there is more than ever a need for social peace in our Turkey. One of the major factors of peace in society is that everyone loves each other, respects differences. In this sense, it is one of the main desires of the Republican People's Party that no one has suffered any negativity about the way they live, the way they dress, and the climate of tolerance is established in Turkey. We can't accept an attack on anyone because of their disguise or their way of life, and we strongly deny these attacks. In order for the language of love to be established, we feel that the rulers need to pay attention to everyone's language, thinking that they are involved in these negative experiences. In Turkey, we sincerely celebrate Valentine's Day, respecting all kinds of love for the growth of the environment of love. It was founded on February 13, 1967 by Turkey's Revolutionary Workers' Unions Confederacy Kemal Türkler, Reza Kuas, İbrahim Güzlüce, Mehmet Alpdundar and Kemal Nebioğlu. In the 50th year of the establishment of DİSK, an independent class and mass organisation, we congratulate them and wish them success in their work. Mr. President, today is February 14, 2017. Years ago, there was an important incident on February 14, 1909, the first vote of confidence was held in Turkey, and the cabinet of Kamil Pasha was shot down. Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0041par0200	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Sky, please.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0040par0201	...in the past period since the fall of the Kamil Pasha cabinet in Turkey's first vote of confidence held on February 14, 1909, I hope that after this incident took place in a period before the Republic, the republic should take the measure that protects it much more from its Parliament, while today a constitutional amendment proposal has been discussed and has been taken to the public today should be a cover for our executives. No one should be defending a constitutional amendment that would shift us to antidemocratic provisions when the administration was envisioned years ago. The Republican People's Party has very good reasons, we say no a thousand times, and we salute you with love and respect.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0041par0202	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0042par0205	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I hope that we all prosper, that the law week that we've just begun, will be a blessing, and I hereby salute the General Assembly. In the early hours of this morning, we received a bitter report from Hatay, and we have a martyr, you know, we had martyrs at the Fırat Shield yesterday, and this morning we have a martyr in İzmir Bergama who failed to comply with his notice and was like a traffic accident. May God have mercy on all our martyrs, my condolences to your relatives. I wish you all the patience, my condolences. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, you know yesterday in Istanbul we followed an unfortunate news together. While traveling in a van, a young girl named Fatma Dilara Aslihan was attacked by a person under hate speech. We've just been informed that the person responsible for the attack has been arrested. In Turkey, everyone is free of lifestyle, freedom of opinion, and that is our unchanging principle. So whosoever wills, let him dress as he wills, and whosoever wills, let him speak as he wills, and let him approach. In these matters, it should be our duty to maintain human rights without discrimination. On this occasion, once again, I wish our brother Fatma Dilara Aslihan well. I want to express that we will all be followers of the judicial process. Mr. President, again, I agree with you at the opening with the best intentions expressed by you. As you know, Valentine's Day, which was declared in the name of a Catholic religious man named Valentine, has gradually become a special day known as Valentine's Day, which the entire community has accepted. From the beginning of the 1800s, a special celebration began between young couples. We come from a culture that gives thanks every day for the existence of its loved ones. On this occasion, once again, I celebrate the Valentine's Day of all our citizens. Mr. President, I'd like to tell you a little bit about the earthquake in Çanakkale Ayvacık.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0043par0211	I'll turn on your microphone, please, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0042par0212	Thank you, Mr. President. More than 2,000 citizens in 21 settlements were affected by the earthquake, you know. AFAD, Kızılay, the surrounding municipalities were all in the earthquake zone from day one, and they served. So far -- we've been out of all the tents -- we've made a claim to live in 485 containers, and our containers have arrived. Beyond that, I'd like to say that all the containers that were missing were planned and that they'd come back to the earthquake site. All requests, such as electricity, water, infrastructure, television, heating, stoves, have been met. From now on, it's time to come up with permanent solutions, and it's time to build broken homes. We're interviewing all of our agencies on this, hopefully we'll take concrete steps soon. I wanted to brief you on the process. I just want to say good-bye to all our countrymen again. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0044par0216	Thank you, Mr. Turan. Members of parliament, not long ago, a metrobus in Istanbul was attacked by one person for wearing shorts. After the attack, both security forces and judicial bodies made the necessary arrangements for the person responsible for the attack. It's a very good thing that this process has been done. Last night, the media reported that a young girl was physically attacked by another person in the van because she was wearing a headscarf during a van ride in Istanbul Maltepe. Whatever his outfit, his lifestyle, his life choice, everyone has a space for freedom. All freedoms are guaranteed by the state, by the Constitution. The lives of individuals cannot be interfered with by individuals or by government. I condemn such attacks, the way of life, the way of life, the choices of life. On a day when love, like Valentine's Day, is meant to be shared in the whole community, as an element of solidarity, I think we should all condemn such an attack by the entire community.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0045par0223	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0044par0224	Here you go, Mr. Kerestecioglu. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0045par0227	Thank you. I wanted to make a very short statement about the same thing. Intervention of women's clothing, bodies, identities, labors, unfortunately, is what women have been up against and struggling with for years. Without anyone saying this, my woman, your woman... which women don't usually do, women's solidarity really is one of the most important foundations of this land, and we are a party trying to live it in Congress. Likewise, I would like to express once again that we strongly condemn the attack on all women, especially yesterday's attack on Maltepe, and that women have the right to decide on their own clothes, their own identities, their bodies. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0046par0232	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the economic, cultural, agricultural and tourism sectors of the Centipede province, and the damage done to the environment by the unplanned industrialisation of the Centipede, to determine the reasons and measures needed to be taken, we propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under the pursuant to Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Parliament of Turkey. With all due respect. [[40s.]] [[Slap]] [[Denizli]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Scholarship]] 6) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] [[Aydın]] [[Samsun]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Burdur]] [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Mersin]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] 25) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] The development of the 40 - century province is our primary goal for the creation of a city with a high level of prosperity for happy people. The economic development of societies includes the change of economic and social, cultural structure, as well as the increase in per capita income. According to life index data published for the first time in 2015, the province of Cırklareli was ranked as 32nd in the general category of 81 provinces. The 40lari province is ranked in the 27th place in the working-life index; the overall health condition of individuals, health infrastructure, competency of their resources and health care services is 56 percent; the security index ranks 49 percent; the social life index ranks 37 percent in the social life index, while the level of satisfaction of life, which is expressed in different times and areas of people's lives, and the level of satisfaction that comes from fulfilling their needs and desires. The lack of sufficient initiative in our 40-year-old province and the lack of creativity in things called RD expenditures, patents and brand registrations are important. The centipede has great potential for nature, sea, culture and congressional tourism. On our shores of the Black Sea, the beaches of the forest reach 10 kilometers [10 km] and the creatures of the sea and nature reveal the potential for tourism. This potential must be protected and improved, and it must be used more effectively in the field of tourism. The 40lari are among the other cities below the average in terms of average income, as opposed to growing in agricultural income per decar. Forty percent of them are surrounded by forests, and the most important and rich biodiversity of our country is the Pinada Longoz Forest. There are 671 species of plants in the world, similar to the one and only, of bird, insect, reptile, fish, mammals, 637 species. All these geographical beautys are under threat from unplanned industrialization, rock, clay and sand stoves, cement factories, thermal power plant, natural gas pipelines and nuclear power plant plans. In this direction, a parliamentary research is needed to determine the economic, cultural, agricultural and tourism sectors of the Centipede province, and the damage done to the environment by the unplanned industrialisation that ignores nature, the reasons for which it needs to be discovered and the measures that need to be taken. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Today, the importance of adequate and balanced nutrition is increasing in the protection and development of public health. This makes it necessary to develop and develop agricultural policies that will allow individuals to reach the desired level and minimum cost of basic food products needed in their healthy diet. The red meat at the head of basic food materials is an extremely important source of protein. According to World Health Organization data, a healthy person has to consume one gram of protein a day for each kilogram of his body weight, and 50 percent of that has animal origin. Today, the amount of animal protein per capita is considered as a criteria for the development of countries, and countries with over 40 per cent animal protein daily consumption are considered a developed country. About 70 per cent of the daily amount of protein consumed in the United States and Europe is provided from animal food, while 73% of the daily amount of protein in our country is provided from herbal food. Politics in agriculture and livestock in Turkey have suffered serious reductions in the country's presence, such as social and economic transformation, the migration of young and qualified labor from rural areas to the city. Along with the 2000s, these decreases have increased more and more. The other major problem in the red meat industry is price instability. One of the main reasons for this is supply-to-request imbalance, and the other is that there is no sustainability in the industry. In terms of the supply demand balance in the sector in terms of red meat, there has been a supply shortage in recent years, and prices have been increasing steadily depending on it. The population of our country has reached 78.7 million and the domestic demand has increased significantly. It is not a long-term policy for producers and consumers in our country to meet increased demand with imports. In order to develop a sustainable production planning and demand projections for the future in the red meat, which is highly strategically important to import, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to ensure the cost stability, to take the necessary measures, to determine structural problems and solutions. [[Army]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Slap]] [[Scholarship]] [[Samsun]] [[Malatya]] [[Ankara]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[40s.]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Burdur]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Mersin]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Adana]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and immediately that an active investigation into those responsible for this incident, which has been described as "Madımak of Cirre" in the public opinion, an active investigation into those who have prevented fire and ambulances from leaving, an investigation into the Parliament under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, a total of over 60 people who have been seriously injured, and the evidence of the deaths committed during the operation and the deaths of witnesses during the operation. [[Şırnak]] 2) Meral Danış Beştaş [[Adana]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Pain]] [[Pain]] 6) The Leader of the Secret [[Ankara]] 7) Ayşe Acar Başaran [[Batman]] 8) Mehmet Ali Aslan [[Batman]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Hakkari]] 22) Mehmet Emin Adıyaman [[Lug]] [[İstanbul]] The curfew was declared on 14/12/2015 by Şırnak Governorate of Şırnak province in Şırnak province of Şırnak province. In the 56-day curfew in Cizre, more than 20 people who have not been identified have lost their lives, while hundreds have been injured due to firearms. Due to attacks on the district centre, nearly 100,000 people have been forced to emigrate. On 04/02/2016, there was a fire in Cudi neighbourhood of Cizre due to mortars reportedly hit a building containing 37 injured persons. Due to this humanitarian disaster, the Group has made top-level contact with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and its relevant public institutions to immediately deploy İdris Baluken and Çağlar Demirel firefighters and ambulances at the scene. However, the Ministry of Interior has made a commitment by law enforcement to prevent fire brigades, but they are not allowed to leave. Following contact with a person at home at 8:00 a.m. the day after the incident occurred, it was reported that nine citizens had lost their lives because the fire had not been interfered with, and that 27 people had been severely injured. In accordance with this information, the Ministry of Health has been informed of the situation, and the request for ambulances to be sent to the area quickly. During that time, our group presidents tried to reach the Home Secretary and Ministry officials for an hour and a half, but their phone calls were not answered. A 16-year-old boy named Abdullah Gün came out of the building and was shot by snipers. In the evening hours of 07/02/2016, 60 people have been killed in an operation launched against the government, particularly the TRT News. Immediately after this report, photos of burnt funerals were presented on social media that claimed some of the racist and war device accounts were part of the operation. On the morning of February 8th, the news was removed from TRT News. In his statement on the incident, Şırnak Governorate has also shared with the public that 10 people have been killed in Cizre. However, local information suggests that the number of people killed is much greater. It is important that the investigation into this incident, which has been described as "Madımak of Cirre" in public, the discovery of the responsible, an active investigation into law enforcement forces and their property commanders, 28 of whom are heavily wounded, will be launched into an immediate investigation into the building, which has claimed to be about 60 people, and that the evidence of the deaths and witnesses in the course of the operation be heard and brought to justice. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Prime Minister's office has a statement issued according to Article 75 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Care : dated 13/11/2014 and 31853594-101-1030-4508. I would like to request that the State of the Republic of Turkey and its Co-operation Agreement between the International Dry Zones Agricultural Research Centre be approved according to Article 75, according to Article 75 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The main number-one bill on the agenda (1/569) has been returned. Congressmans, there is a review of the Council Research Commission, chairman of the Council Committee, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk of Public Education and Housing Rights for All of Our Students to Be Secured and Appreciated in order to determine the measures for the adoption of them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our commission is 9/2/2017 Thursday at 13. As a result of the draft of 13 ballots collected and used at 00, they were elected President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk under Article 24 of the Civil Charter, taking the vote shown against members whose names and last names are written below. For your information. Yours truly. President: Fatma Güldemet Yellow Adana MP: (8) Oy Vice President: İsmail Tamer Kayseri MP: (8) Oy Speaker: Leyla Şahin Master Konya MP: (8) Oy Clerk: Ayhan Gir Çanakkale MP: (8) Oy It has been presented to your knowledge. Now we move on to the group proposals of political parties. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellor 14/2/2017 cannot meet on Tuesday (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. On February 14, 2017, the Parliamentary Research Charter, given to the Turkish Parliament to prevent child abuse and protect children's rights, was proposed to be presented before other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly on Tuesday (14/2/2017/2017). I'll make a promise to the members of parliament who have requested a statement in the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. The first speaker is Filiz Kerestecioğlu, İstanbul MP, in favour of the proposal. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0047par0457	Thank you, Mr. President. Precious lawmakers, although about a year after the abuse of children in Karaman, in March 2016, were still unable to create an established system in Turkey against child abuse. There was no mechanism for adults, teachers, and parents who could identify abuse and children who were abused. In the wake of the abuse of children in Karaman, the Commission has decided to set up a permanent child rights commission, but it has not been submitted to parliament, nor has a permanent child's rights commission was established in parliament. Finally, Ankara Haymana Nuri Bektaş was appointed school principal S. The claim that K. (K.) has made sexual harassment and sexual abuse of students at the school's boarding house has been reported by journalist Serbay Mansuroglu, when around 100 students have applied to the Prime Minister's Communication Centre. What teacher should we tell the other teachers in the same school, who have said that they can't do anything because they're afraid of the school and district directorate? We're afraid to tell the teachers. So we chose the way to apply to BIMER. In this case, what measures will be taken, what investigations will be conducted, and what transparency will be conducted, and we are seriously concerned about this because we have also received information that teachers and students who have also complained about a conspiracy against the director. But like so many other cases, we want to explain once again that there is no attempt to black out and that the investigation must be conducted in a very clear and transparent way, in the interest of the children, that our children are the future, which we have not dropped from our mouths. Yes, especially over the last year, there has been a significant sensitivity to child abuse in public. However, as we said in the beginning, the government has not developed a unified policy against this sensitivity, the child's rights permanent commission has not been established. On the other hand, many heavy abuses have been reported in the press in almost every province in the last year. This demonstrates the urgency of the establishment of a research commission that will work to prevent and develop a unified policy against child abuse in Turkey. Look, some parents at Haymana say that they have been in a room that the school principal has had prepared for him at the boarding house for some time, so sexual abuse claims must be carefully investigated. A parent who doesn't want to give his name, this is a small place, and everything will be heard and spread soon. We've just heard and learned that the man they appointed principal of the school as our resident has been convicted of sexual harassment before. Tell me, for God's sake, is it right for a person who's been punished for sexual harassment to be a school principal and a teacher? Ankara Governorate announced that a criminal investigation was launched only after the abuse was reflected in the press. But, as we say, in this investigation, with some religious claims, we built a mosque there. In fact, the principal was a religious man, he was a religious man, but those who complained did this to smear him. These were people who had insulted the President before. Such claims are being made that would distort the investigation, stain the lighting of the incident, prevent it. We would like to express that these dangerous games are not to be entered and that children are our beings to think about in the first place. We have stated in the opposition we wrote at the Children's Instigation Commission: specifically, the banning of children's marriages at a child's age; the abandonment of populist practices, which would not be a solution to child sexual abuse, such as chemical exclusion; the closure of children's prisons; the adoption of children's rights; the abandonment of the understanding of being associated with terrorism in each protest; the establishment of children and all civilians' right to live in a peaceful, democratic and free environment; the adoption of children's labor; the closure of child labor; the closure of children's children's rights; the removal of child's rights right to be abused by all children; the complete education and access to their children's services; and the establishment of every person's employment; and the establishment of every person's right to have to be subjected to be maintained, and every individual's employment, and the right to be maintained, and the right to each individual's institutions. Yes, we've made a lot of suggestions in this way, and we expect them to come to life. This Parliament, which has worked us for hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours to bring Turkey to a monotheistic single man's regime, needs to see another reality in this government, which we've been waiting weeks for to sign that offer. We have no more important agenda in Turkey than preventing child abuse; yes, we do not. This may not sound serious to you, but it's very serious to us, much more serious than a single man's regime, because children are our future. So, we're giving you the right to be elected to 18 years old. In this one man's regime, where you can't cover it with things that are polished like this, children can only be chosen or able to rule at work when they're 18. So, you may not take it seriously, but we take it very seriously, and children are really our future. I'd like to finish a verse from a poem by Halil Jibran, which I told you about earlier in the Commission. The children you know as yours are not really yours. / They are the sons and daughters of life who miss them. / They were born through you, but they're not from you. They are with you, but they are not your property. / You can give them your love, but never your thoughts,/ because they have their own thoughts. / You can keep their bodies, but never their souls,/because their souls sit in the palace of the future, and you can't even visit it in your dreams. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0048par0467	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Deniz Depboylu, Aydın MP against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0049par0471	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, unfortunately I have made a pledge on behalf of our Nationalist Action Party Group on the motion that has been brought up in the event of sexual abuse against a large number of children who have reoccurred us with anxiety and sadness. Before I begin my speech, I salute the holy Turkish nation and the Veterans Assembly. Today, unfortunately, that's not just the sad news we're getting, but we have two martyrs. As we defend our homeland at the border of Nusaybin and the Amanos Mountains, I ask for the mercy of God to our heroic soldiers who have died and to our grieving families and to our Turkish Armed Forces, our condolences and patience. Members of parliament, with the abuse and abuse of a high school principal against boys, unfortunately, nearly 100 students have applied to BIMER, and there has been another incident of abuse. According to the news source that we have received, they say that as a last resort to BIMER, some of the teachers we've reached have long heard about it, but they have no concrete evidence, that they have done nothing because they are afraid of the school and the county's chief of education. On the other hand, some of the students who did not want their names to be disclosed did not know which teacher to ask for help or which teacher to trust, but as a last resort, BIMER came to mind. So far, valuable lawmakers have contributed greatly to the discovery of the abuses that have arisen by psychologists and psychologists working outside the school as guidance counselors or outside the school. Which really reveals how much we need these majors. I hope there's a psych consult at that school, or we'll have to see how important it is from now on, and we'll wish there were enough of it in all schools. Again, it's too painful to have a manager who has allegations of abuse removed to protect children instead of being replaced and allowed to target new victims, which we're learning is that he's been dismissed from a crime like this before, or, rather, taken to a different place. While we carry the anger and grief of this incident, we get another report that a driver from the village carrying the students in a van is being punished for harassing nine female students. Unfortunately, these are the tip of the iceberg. We know that most of the abuses and abuses have either been ignored or covered up. Most of the time, children don't say it because they're ashamed or afraid. It's very important that we identify threats against our children. As long as we don't know the extent of the neglect and abuse of children in homes, schools, children, or institutions associated with children, there's no effective way to plan the measures and interventions we're going to take unless we know the extent of the neglect and abuse of children. We also need to know how far we've come in the future, so we need to be in serious research, and we need to hear the children's voices. We have to investigate the abuse of children in both urban and rural areas. In order to determine the data collected in research and create accurate information based, we have to create research agendas for child abuse. Again, we need to report these investigations, take the necessary precautions. We find out what our children can't tell us, help us, and more importantly, when we're struggling to prevent it from happening from happening, to see our children being ignored, to see the abusers being protected, to see the situation being covered, to see that the government's people are taking away our trust. It will not fit in the virtue or conscience of government rule. You have to give it to your people, but unfortunately, you don't give it to your people. It's not the integrity of assignments, I'm afraid, it's the solidarity. It's a pity that you've replaced our executive friends whom you took out of office because they didn't change their union; some of them turned out to be abusers, some of them, and even worse, there are managers who close their eyes and ears and ignore them. It is likely that a orator from the AKP will now appear here and talk about the work and report of the Children's Invasion Commission, which has already been established. I too was a member of the Parliamentary Research Commission, which was formed and completed during this period, aimed at determining the measures to be taken by Investigating Every Kind of Instigation on Children. I don't think the commission is doing enough work. Only once a week, no regional research. Other than Karaman, there was no investigation, not even where the incidents took place during the commission's work. At least once we asked for the participation of the Minister of National Education, Minister of Family and Social Policy, Minister of Justice and Deputy Prime Minister in Charge of Foundations and Associations. Our goal was to exchange opinions with the ministers, to give them our concerns, our thoughts, our own ideas, our own solutions, and to get information from them in return, but unfortunately none of them attended the meeting. Dear lawmakers have been known to express in my speech that childhood violence was not limited to the period in which the child's mental and physical health was caused by the trauma at that time, nor was it limited to the period in which the incident took place. These kids are going to have mental problems, they're going to have physical problems, maybe they're going to have alcohol addicts, drug addicts, which are already predicted consequences. This will not be limited to the child's life alone. A child's abused child does not just affect the child, which affects his family, affects his friends, lives with him, studies with him, affects the neighborhood, the county, even the province where he lives, and, therefore, the extension of these problems will even fall on the generation ahead when he grows up and becomes an adult. It's such a sad painting. Given all of this, we will conclude that crimes against children and child neglect will affect the health of a society as well as the physical and mental trauma of many children. So the prevention of child abuse is very important not only for children, but for the protection of an entire community. I'm afraid we still can't protect the children. Today there are still children who have been given the right to education, who can't continue their education. Again, it's not preventing young girls from getting married at an early age. Children are still being abused by adults who have not stopped child labor, who benefit from legal loopholes. Resolving these shortcomings will be possible only with a continuous commission, which will be established under the National Assembly of Turkey's rights protection commission. In order to protect our children and ensure their living standards, it is important to constantly form a commission under the Turkish Parliament's Children's Rights Protection Commission in order to examine and examine the areas for the benefit of children in existing legislation and legislation, to ensure the establishment of the required legal regulations and to support the creation of new laws. Children are weak and vulnerable and therefore need adults, legal sanctions to defend them, protect them. Families, especially the state, have the responsibility of caring for children, institutions have the responsibility to respect them, to violate them, to neglect them, to take the rights that exist further and strengthen them. With daily policies, temporary commissions, all this is not possible. We need a national children's policy to resolve or prevent possible risky problems. And to think of all of that, we had given our proposal for the establishment of a permanent commission on the National Movement Party of Turkey on 7/10/2016 under the name of the National Assembly's Committee for the Protection of Children's Rights, and today, with a petition delivered to our Parliamentary Presidency, we asked again to bring this bill on the agenda. I believe the work in other groups is similar, and I have information for that. I think the decision we're going to make here should be to form a very permanent commission from a research commission. And again, I would like to ask our esteemed Minister of National Education to appoint enough teachers to take care of our children. We're requesting 50,000 assignments. Hopefully, our children will have a chance to grow up healthy and continue their education in well-bred hands. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0050par0487	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Lale Karbük is a member of the Union. Here you go, Mr. Carbage.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0051par0491	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, we've been informed that we have two martyrs, and I wish our martyrs God's mercy, and my condolences to their grieving families. Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group in the group's proposal for child abuse. Yes, our children are precious. We protect them from the moment they're born, we look after them, we raise them with love. They are innocent; and if any harm befalls them, they know that our hearts tremble, that our hearts burn. Even if our children grow up, we still wonder about them, and we keep protecting them. When they grow up in a family environment, they get together with the school, the environment, but they could be in danger everywhere. Protecting the child from these dangers is primarily the first responsibility of the state, its duty, which is already arranged with the Constitution. However, in recent years, we have been sadly watching the environments in which children have been in real danger. One of the most important dangers children face in their environments is child abuse, particularly children's sexual abuse. Day after day, we get different news from everywhere, and our heart bleeds. Yes, we, the Republican People's Party, also say that the state must carry out the responsibility of supervision, the responsibility of oversight in all areas seriously. Now, if we look at some data, maybe we can show a little bit more seriousness. Dear MPs, in the last decade, child sexual abuse cases have unfortunately increased by 700 per cent, children's sexual abuse has increased by 434 per cent, which is a very important rate. There was a sexual assault on 368 girls in 2016. In 2016, again 11,095 children were subjected to sexual crimes. Of these children, 1,377 were sons and 9.718 were daughters. Unfortunately, 2016 was the year of abuse for children. 368 girls were sexually abused, 38% of these children were disabled. 59% of the abuse cases took place in schools. Children were abused in the streets, in vehicles, in courses, in buses and parks, in dorms, in illegal formations. While there have been many cases that have been heard and not heard, we know that there are many children and families who have experienced these events but sometimes cannot speak, can't speak, can't hear their screams. The most obvious is that, dear Regents, we all remember the incident in Karaman, which fell on the agenda of our country, with sadness and pain. And that's the kind of thing that went on after these events, the abuses continued, and for these cases, we actually received very negative news every day, and we insisted that a commission be set up during the Karaman incident, and we were forced, unfortunately, to form that Commission. I wasn't a member of this Commission, but I joined the Commission from time to time, and then I studied the reports very well, and I followed that process. However, valuable representatives, unfortunately, there has been no progress in this Commission, and it is impossible to say that this Commission works efficiently and that it has reached a certain conclusion. We, the Republican People's Party, have argued that the state should be more sensitive to the safety and protection of children, that there should be no illegal institutions everywhere, everywhere. Unfortunately, the Anti-Instruction Commission has not even been issued an inventory of illegal sites, which has not even been removed, even though we've been on top of it so importantly. Yes, we stressed in every environment that non-legal, legal areas must be inspected, and that they must be watched closely. Now, again, yesterday we were shaken by a truly important news story in the press. We hope it's not real, because this society is really not capable of handling something like this anymore, it's a very hurtful event. In this society, those accused of the slightest suspicion of child abuse should not only be examined today's events, but their previous processes, the provinces they came from, the counties they came from, the tasks they have to be studied very carefully. We don't want to accuse people of any crime without being proven, but we say we need to examine the details of this incident. Because there are a lot of children here who have been said to have been abused, raped, and the whole community and we are extremely sensitive to the fact that even a child can't be treated that badly. Right now, an administrative investigation is under way, and we hope it doesn't come true, but if it does come true, we're going to be really upset about it, and we're going to be following it to the end of these investigations. I'd like to rephrase here that it's one of the most sensitive points in this society, without anything being covered up, in detail, and in retrospect, that all reports should be evaluated, and the parents, and the students, and the past should be treated with questions. Dear Regents, another point: our children are young and innocent, and at every age, I have just stated that danger awaits them. In the family and in the schools, we're also saying that children should be taught how to protect themselves from these external dangers, given information at every stage. But we're looking at it. No curriculum has ever been installed. Some parts of Ataturk are being removed from the curriculum, about Ismet Inönul (Ismet), but we see that there is no study of such things that express the most painful wound in society. Unfortunately, these are very important needs, a number of information and trainings that children must be given in social environments and in school and everywhere to protect themselves are now essential, not only in our country but also in the world. The other thing is, of course, we remind the government of its responsibility here at every stage, there's no doubt about it. But I also want to rephrase here the need for schools, educational institutions, or dorms, especially guidance teachers, guidance services, to be very sensitive about it, and to discuss it with children with some signs, with some doubts. There are environments where children can't talk, environments where children are scared, scared. So, I'm going to stress once again that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy should be more sensitive about this. I'd like to point out another important point -- I've said it in a couple of environments, and I've said it over and over again from this council bench -- there's no national children's policy in this country. So, with education, shelter, protection, care for the child in the face of justice, social assistance, health care, and the child's maximum benefits, without an integrated national children's policy, with no integrated national policy; it's often tried to be organized in a way that shapes the future generations ideologically, independent, disconnected policies. But, you see, this unhealthy environment brings us to the point where it's happening today, and in the future, we're going to see the damage. As the Republican People's Party, we created the national children's policy and did all the work on it. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0052par0505	Thank you, Mr. Carabinieri. Yilmaz Bronzeç, Bartın MP against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0053par0509	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs regarding the HDP group proposal. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. The HDP group's proposal includes the request to establish a research commission in parliament to prevent child abuse and protect child rights. In order to determine measures to prevent child abuse, particularly sexual abuse, we had established and conducted research commissions in parliament last year in the law school, last year. Our work, which began on April 21st of 2016, continued as a written report after four months of legal time, and our report was distributed to lawmakers as Commission Report 442. First of all, before we get to the suggestions in our report and go over the details of the commission work, I want to make this clear: our children are our future. Yeah, you shouldn't use that as a cliché. But it is the duty of parents to protect our children, our children, from any danger to our future, but the main duty of the state is to protect them from the Constitution and international contracts. Because our children are the most vulnerable to the dangers around them. In order to avoid such dangers, parents need to be trained in the first place, just as they need to be trained. The government also needs to take necessary measures in schools, in relevant institutions, and protect the children. The government has taken many steps so far, there are studies done by governments. Of course, many of these should not be denied that they have focused on the last 15 years. We signed the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights in 1990, but the Children's Protection Act also coincides with the EC PARTY authorities, which entered into force in 2005. Again, while our new Turkish Penal Code was being made, the chapter on children's sexual abuse was organised as a separate chapter, and the fines were not enough, but were increased further by Law 6545 in 2014, and we all made here the legal amendment to the start of the children's sexual abuse in a qualified period of 18 years. When compared with European countries, the qualified state began there for eight years, while in Turkey, the quality of the sentences began for 18 years. Turkey is successful at the issue and at the point of international contracts. We are a country that signed the Council of Europe Convention on the protection of children against sexual abuse and exploitation in 2007 and signed the Lanzarote Convention. Again, in 2010, children's rights entered our Constitution for the first time, and the statements regarding the 2010 Constitutional Amendment and the state taking protective measures against all kinds of abuse and violence took place in our Constitution. Since 2004, research commissions for many children have been established in parliament. Even so, the sad news, the matter of yesterday's alleged Haymana, the events in our previous, different provinces... What else can be done to make sure that these events do not occur, which are deeply upsetting and shocking to all of us? The research commission, which was established last year with the will of this Parliament, under the joint proposal of all our political parties, also carried out important work. We've had our members of the opposition party here because we thought that our children should be kept above any political debate because they're important, they're our future. Together at that time, we also focused on the views of the opposition. We called and listened to the experts they asked to be heard on the Commission. Sexual abuse, that's what we studied most in the first place. Physical abuse, children's neglect, emotional abuse, all of which are considered under child abuse, but the mission given to us by the House is to examine sexual abuse a little more heavily. There are NGOs working in this area, and we've heard their representatives. There are academics abroad in this area, visually, using technology to listen to this in our Commission. We've asked for representatives of UNICEF, representatives of the International Labour Organization, representatives of the World Health Organization and all reports from universities, bars, children's rights centers in our country, and we've heard them and we have our proposals in our report. We tried to take advantage of the boy. When we look at our report, of course, it's close to 500 pages. Regarding child abuse, right now the most important resource for preventing child abuse in Turkey is the report of the Turkish National Assembly's research commission. We have 88 proposals, both in place of implementation and in place of the theory, regarding the work of public institutions so far, what areas they have been missing, and 88 concrete proposals, measures that need to be taken urgently, and measures that need to be taken in accordance with regulations and administrative terms. They're all valuable suggestions from each other. It's very important to establish a child welfare coordination center. Because there are different ministries that are interested in the child. Under one roof, a single-handed control and co-ordination must be provided, and a centre is needed to establish a structure that will co-ordinate the work of the national children's policy and its implementation, which our Commission first determined. Yes, we have a motion to establish a permanent commission on child rights in the House. Opposition parties have proposed laws on this issue, and we, as lawmakers of the ruling party, have prepared a permanent commission on child rights in our Parliament, and we think that it would be a very important commission for the development of child rights, the development of child rights issues on the parliamentary agenda, and the care of the child's superior benefit in the legislature process, and our work will continue at the point of the establishment of this commission. In our commission's report, children's monitoring centers were implemented and activated in 2010 under the Prime Ministerial Generality. They're working in 27 districts right now. They're doing research on the uninstructed depositions of victims of crime children. We have proposals for the spread of these to all provinces and for the adoption of legal legislation. The Ministry of Health has launched this study -- it is currently in regulation work -- and has also launched its work on increasing the centers. We don't want our commission proposals on paper, we don't want our report on the shelf. That's what we thank our Justice Department for. In the courts, it is very difficult for our children to get their testimony in front of the elders, so the children's interview rooms need to be expanded, and these are prepared in many of our courts, and children's interview rooms will be in operation in the courts as of April 3, 2017. Of course, as lawmakers, we are pleased that these concrete proposals in our commission report have come to life and are being passed on one by one. Based on the information we've received from the experts, of course, it's not safe to go where everything happens... Because when you went to a place that was alleged, there were some concerns that the parliamentary research commission would offend the students or guardians who were staying in that dorm where the trial has not yet been concluded, but we went to Karaman, we listened to them; we met with our children in the children's prison; we saw the operation at the Children's Watch Center, so we did the work that had to be done outside. Let's just say that child abuse has increased during the ruling period of the AK PARTY. It's not true to say, friends. Look, why is this happening? In our Turkish penal code -- in our new Penal Code in 2005 -- we've described child abuse as all sorts of sexual behavior towards children. Thus, there seems to be an increase here because the number of crimes used as sexual harassment, sexual assault, statistics, has now been assessed as child abuse. And the most important thing is that, especially between 2002 and 2008, when statistics were being held, the most serious crime was being evaluated in case of the case, but after 2008, whatever the most violent crime was in that file, whatever crimes there were, without being discriminated against, all sorts of crimes enter into statistics. So between 2007 and 2008... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me tell you about the statistics, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0054par0525	Here you go. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0053par0527	We are looking at the number of cases filed in 2002, 4,592; less in 2008, 4,061. So we don't have to compare 2002 to 2015, or we'll come to a wrong conclusion, we'll have to compare 2002 to 2008, and we'll have to compare 2009 with 2015. Here in 2009, the number of cases brought up to 12,635, and 2015 to 16,957, so 700 per cent increase, 400 per cent increase, these are not the right numbers. When we look at statistics, when you go to the Justice Department's Criminal Record and Statistics General Office's page on these crimes, you can all see that this increase is due to the assessment of the file in the UYAP system, the assessment of every crime in the file separately, and the increase of 3 or 4 times that may have been caused by this. Earlier, our Parliamentary Commission worked on it and presented a report. Now it's up to us to follow this report, to implement the concrete suggestions mentioned in this report one by one. Rather than wasting time with a new research commission, he says it's better to implement these concrete proposals one by one, which I salute the General Assembly with these feelings and thoughts.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0054par0530	Thank you, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0055par0531	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0054par0532	Mr. Master, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0055par0535	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, as part of this group's proposal, we've learned that as a matter of fact, all parties agree on the establishment of a permanent commission for the protection of this child's rights; the latest, Karaman's report has a measure like this. So, what we're going to do, first of all, is, as the National Movement Party, we already have a law proposal, which I don't think the ruling party has a law proposal, but a law proposal -- whatever -- let's make it happen right away. It's not a question of whether or not to open up, whether or not there's an incident, because there's a need for editing, there's serious casualties, there's a need for measures. It's no use in saying, "Woe to me, it's only in the framework of a permanent commission." Therefore, the need for a permanent commission is very urgent, and we expect effort from the ruling party -- that's what we support and desire as a opposition party. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0056par0538	Thank you, Mr. Master. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0057par0541	Mr. President, I actually wanted to make a statement specifically to make a statement as a motion holder. So, we don't want to get up on every occasion, so let's do some research, you know, transparent research. It's you who promised it, all of us. And we're not interested in any numbers either, obviously, in the growing AK PARTY period, not the numbers, kids, they're life, so we don't want one kid to get hurt when we have kids of our own, but it's not that important when we have other kids. Well, that's what we're suggesting. We worked here all morning for 18 articles. So, why can't we set up a permanent children's rights commission?
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0058par0545	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0057par0546	So that's what we want to express in particular. If everyone agrees, it must be established. We also ask Yilmaz Bey for that brochure in his hand.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0058par0548	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Sky, please, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0059par0551	Sir, child rights is one of Turkey's burning problems. Every day, from all sides of our country, there are shocking events and evaluations that upset us all about the children. Under the light of these assessments, we think that we need a permanent review, a commission that protects children's rights, protects the future of our children, and prevents the previous events, and puts them in all public places in Turkey. We express our heartfelt support for any steps taken regarding children. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0060par0554	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0061par0555	Mr. President, I want word on 60.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0060par0556	Mr. Bronze, please, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0061par0558	Mr. President, thank you. We, as ruling lawmakers, have an offer to establish a permanent children's rights commission in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which we have given to our group. The necessary work is being done and needs to be done because there is a consensus on the rights of children when the law is being discussed in parliament, as well as on the child's best interest, and on matters related to the implementation of child's rights, that the Assembly should use a control authority by this commission. In fact, the first article of our parliamentary research commission is a proposal for the establishment of this commission. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0062par0561	Thank you, Mr. Bronze. I submit the People's Democratic Party Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellor 14/2/2017 cannot meet Tuesday (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. The meeting of the Assembly of Turkey's Assembly of Major Assembly (10/59) main Council of Assembly Research (14/2/2017) on Tuesday (Today) was proposed in order to determine the measures that should be taken by investigating the problems of our teachers and the teaching profession in the part of the General Assembly's agenda for General Discussion and Assembly Review. I'll make a pledge to the members of the Republican People's Party Group demanding a statement on their proposal. The first speaker on the proposal is Namik Havutça, Balıkesir MP. Here you go, Mr. Havut.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0063par0579	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion to investigate the problems of our fellow teachers and our education on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, our country faced a treacherous coup attempt on the night of July 15th, followed by extraordinary developments. That night, on the night of July 15th, we were in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to claim democracy, the Grand National Assembly, the republical values, at the call of the President of the Republican People's Party. Look, on July 15th, two wars were fought in this republic's history, not a single bullet was fired in World War II or World War II, and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was bombed seven times that night by traitors. Now, all of these are those who shot our people, crushed them with tanks, strangled people on the throat bridge. Now, we're looking from here, yes, it's essential that our country struggles with these traitors and punishes them most severely, of course, but we're looking at the point where we're looking, the government -- in a state of confusion -- started to deal with them from far away, from away, from our fellow teachers, who have nothing to do with them. Look, dear lawmakers, I'm speaking to the government authorities, what terrorist organization is Ibrahim Kaboglu having an affair with? Turkey's flag, which has been fighting for human rights for years, is being exported today as the leading representative of Turkey's democratic values. Look, valuable lawmakers, this isn't staying with him either, these people are currently expelled, expelled, starved from the work of about 30,000 teachers in Turkey. I'd like to give you an example from my own knowledge, Balıkesir. Türkan Karaoglan, a member of your education, his wife, is a member of your education. Our friend has been discharged from his profession for six months now. We're going to ask the Minister of National Education, Mr. Secretary, for what reason did you expel our friend? Mr. Secretary opens -- my dear fellow lawyers, please ask your attention -- there's a claim that Mr. Lock used his computer from the MIT. Sir, Bank has invested money in Asia. You're basing a document from the MIT. So, based on what evidence do I have to protect innocent people's rights, victims' rights? What is the nature of the document from the MIT, and who questions the MIT? What is the legal quality of the document sent by that MIT, which is called by Lock and condemns our friend to hunger, and is there an answer to that? No. So, who's the MIT responsible for? He's only responsible for the Prime Minister. How are we going to protect the legal rights of our friend, who was expelled from his profession on the basis of that MIT document? There's no answer. Dear lawmakers, today in Turkey, no one, including teachers, has any legal security, because due to the State of Emergency law, we cannot make the necessary attempts to get our friend back into the profession. I call upon the Minister of National Education to return to the post immediately, our friends, who have nothing to do with the traitors. My dear friends, come on, you've thrown away the people, they're all starving right now. His legal side is one thing, we're in the human rights dimension, the level of fair trial. These are the traitors who have never voted for us, nor have they come to us, nor have they even cooperated with you, but we defend their right to a fair trial to the end. My dear friends, after that, the teacher's acquisitions were made. Look, you've removed the KPSS. Now, for example, from Balıkesir Erdek, we're a girl teacher named Eda Kaya in KPS, with 95 points. He's interviewing at Izmir. He gets 44 points. So, what kind of measure is this, what understanding, what kind of selection, how do you choose it? Is it merit or loyalty? Yes, we understand your sensibilities about ▪. So, what does Eda Kaya, daughter of my left-wing, republican, Ataturkist friend, have to do with my father, retired teacher? Come on, do a security investigation... you've upset the public order with your own subjective criteria in the hiring of teachers. You've taken down the core values of the Constitution and the legal state, democracy. Right now there is no merit in Turkey. Our fellow teachers ask: 'Are you asking us in the House, because they don't take us according to what, and how do they eliminate us in the interview?' Look, they just got off the phone with our group vice president, our teacher friends are here. From Istanbul to Sharife Kaleli, who was expelled from his profession, says I don't know anything. Sir, Satuk Buğra Kaleli says I don't know why I was expelled. Dear lawmakers, look, after July 15th, our teachers faced the most severe victims. You've moved your fellow teachers to teachers' staffs in their purchases, unregistered, unqualified, unequivocal. You left our Republican, Ataturkian, revolutionary, teacher friends who held this country's values out front, unfortunately, even though they scored 95 points. God accepts neither conscience nor justice. (CHP turns to applause) There is no such injustice, we have examples of them.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0064par0586	You're being unfair to teachers, insulting appointed teachers.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0063par0587	Look, we still have a lot to say. Teachers... you claimed that investments in national education have gone up a lot. I'll tell you in numbers: you're the government in Turkey that has at least invested in education in the past government, which has divided the minimum investment budget. Look, the numbers and the graphics aren't lying.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0064par0588	Oh, my God, it's gone up 10 times, it's gone up 10 times.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0063par0589	Look, the valued lawmakers, the investment budget, when you came to power, in 2002, was 17.18 per cent; it's now down to 8.23 per cent of the investment budget. Here, look, here's the graph. You came to power -- the investment budget is here -- coming down like this, like this, like a periodic truck in the Justice and Development Party administrations. That's your investment budget, and then I ask you, sir, to fight the army. I'm asking you: you've been starving my Turkan teacher in Balıkesir for six months -- one minute, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, I'm saying something -- but today in prison, you've given the pilot who bombed the House a bonus, you've given him a salary. Are you guys fucking kidding me? You have given 4.5 billion wages to the officer who is currently in prison, and you have paid his bonus -- 150 billion -- and you pay the men who bombed this place, and in prison, my teacher friend Balıkesir is starving. Is this justice, is this your conscience? (CHEERING) Answer me this. The Turkan teacher can't afford to buy bread today, but you paid the pilot who bombed this place.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0064par0590	Come on, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0063par0591	I've got it, I've got it, I've got it, I've got it, I've got it, I've got it, I've got it, I've got it, I've got it.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0065par0592	If there is, we'll cancel it.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0063par0593	So, now, when our fellow teachers came to power, in 2002, they were really economically rich, taking 24 small pieces of gold on a teacher's salary, teachers, my dear friends, 18 small ones today. An important part of teachers work in a second job. You have pushed back the union rights of teachers in a way that has never been in our history of democracy, and with your permission, you have come to the point where you don't recognize the unions established. Look, don't these unions get permission from the Ministry of Labor, the Ministry of National Education when they're being formed? Isn't that union called ACTIM-SEN, which has nothing to do with us, hand in hand, arm in hand, established by the permission of your ministry? Therefore, you destroyed the law in Turkey. Court doors as a palace of justice are where citizens seek justice, not where they seek mercy. Thanks to you, palaces of justice are no longer wanted for justice, but for mercy. Remove the writing of justice in front of those palaces of justice, and do not deceive the people; lift up justice because you have removed it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0066par0596	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Kamil Aydın, Erzurum MP against the Republican People's Party proposal. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0067par0600	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party on this proposal. I salute the High Council. Sir, I know that every single one of you would express it in a more beautiful way than I do, in a very great and lofty way, as we try to express it here. In fact, teaching is a 40-year-old form of slavery when taught even one letter, as it is so-called hidden from the projections of our civilization. Now, if I were to ask, what is the most imprisoned group of professions, the most needed, the most essential professional group? We'd all say, "educators." Is there anyone among us who hasn't passed through these teachers' cervical dyslexia? Look, we apply to the doctor when we're sick, we apply to the lawyer when we have a judicial need, but we never run from teachers, educators, we have to be with them for life. So it's not just the architects of new generations, it's the architects of all generations. Respected MPs, look, one day a year, as in that lyrics, the teachers we're trying to remember are already having a lot of problems. The staff also have problems. We have friends who don't think about retiring from teachers, so to speak, very briefly. Why? Because they're going to have huge decreases in their salaries, they're going to be short-sighted, they don't have the guts, they're doing two jobs, they're going to do three jobs. Believe me, lessons are fixed, the price of lemon changes year-on-year, but the teacher's extra tuition never changes. I mean, it's all over the place. Now, on top of that, the physical conditions aren't good either. Believe me, there's a project called the FATIH Project, a project that requires sophisticated technology, but on the other hand, it's like that joke thing that we had in the GSM operator's ad, we have teachers trying to light the stove on fire, training to create the ideal environment. On the one hand, now, again, there's been a harassment, an assault. Teachers also lack safety. We're trying to keep an education in the enthralling of this kind of teachers, but believe me, we have a bigger, more traumatic problem with the education community than that, valued lawmakers. You know what this is? Now, the hope of becoming a teacher, the hope, our dream candidate, is represented by hundreds of thousands. Now, thousands are not expressed by tens of thousands, but by hundreds of thousands. Sir, the best response to this -- the minister or the fellow officials -- has said it once or twice -- is indeed greater than his guilt. A promise that will be taken into consideration. Look: The most teachers in the history of the Republic have been appointed in our time. It's true, it's true. You've assigned a lot of teachers, but you're the cause of this problem. I mean the ruling party. As an educator, I say it. Why? Look, do you know why? Do you know why? It was your policies that led these children to hope, to hope, to put these children in front of the Ministry of National Education. What were those? It's a university with each other. It sounds very nice, but it's very political, but it's something that's causing the country a crisis if you can't fill it. Of course it can be opened, it has to be opened, but we could open it by doing a very good field work, feeding its infrastructure a causal relationship. We did; did we develop the socioeconomic structure of those provinces, the model of commercial development; did we look at geographical conditions; did we look at economic conditions? We didn't say, "What development model does it take to develop this province, and in this county, we don't need an employee or a trained employee, we don't need to set up his college." Look, it's like he's out of the tornado... we've all come from a province. In some provinces, two or three universities were opened in public. You know what we did? It's standard: we open a college, colleges are cliche, turnsusol paper. Sir, science-edebiyat, engineering, engineering, business, theology; science-edebiology, engineering, business, theology, standard. Now, we've recently added medical schools and law schools to the professions we've discredited by multiplying. Isn't it a shame about these kids' dreams? Then what should we do? In order not to live these days, we were going to look at the infrastructure of the province that we were really planning to open up that university, and we were going to open up sections for whatever commercial development models are going to be applied there. Some private universities are doing it, but unfortunately we haven't seen it in public. And if that's not enough, we've increased the number of education schools, and we've given the other departments pedagogical formations, high prices, we've given everyone. Our children were also hopeful, and he said: "I will become a teacher by taking this pedagogic formation. Now he's waiting for his dream to open up the cast. Yes, it is said that 20,000 staff will be taken as of today. It's a good thing; look, yes, we're happy, we're happy for our children, but is that enough? It's not enough. Please, if we could make it 50,000, 60 grand, and we could do our reform work at these universities, we could give up our willingness to make everyone a teacher. That's a really bleeding wound. On the other hand, now, we've opened 20,000 casts. 70,000 people will be summoned and tested. These kids actually passed their exams, a central exam was taken. The results of the KPSS exam are obvious, objectively, really, a general test. Let's do the interview, okay. So, what's so special about interviewing? At his teaching point, isn't it, in fact, verbally measuring his ability to control the classroom, diction, sir, to use material, persuasion, ability? But once this test was taken, we found that there was no test format for any of this. It was so simple, so funny, that our kids got mixed up with the guy who knew what was going on. Well, let's not do this, let's do the interview, but we really don't want his contribution to the evaluation to be as serious as the central objective test. And while these staffs are being announced... the kids are texting us, and they're coming to you. Believe me, these troubles are a little more political. We all have children, we all have real victims in our constituency, regardless of their political tendencies. Another important problem that has come to me is that we're reversing some of the majors. He wrote: "Hocam, I have a French teacher's degree. I have a degree in art history. I have a degree in fine arts. I have a degree in philosophy. For God's sake, don't we want to think in these schools, don't we want to produce, don't we want to socialize, don't we want to learn another language? There's another problem here. Another traumatic problem facing the educational community is that in our schools -- unfortunately, our universities have been involved in this recently -- is a tendency to politicalize. So, the unions who carry the responsibilities of searching for employees' rights, improving their rights, especially the certain union political contractors, who, believe me, considers himself a king rather than a king, appoints him to schools, appoints him in the national education departments -- Mr. Minister is not here -- we're going through this. I've got papers, friends back in court, still waiting for him to appoint. I'm going to read it now for the record. I'd like to share a piece of paper handed to me by a manager of a 40-year-old school: "Yurdar Tiryaki, Erzurum Yakutiye Şükrüpaşa, while serving as director of Anadolu High School, the National Ministry of Education Education Education Directors Evaluation Form was terminated by a 64.50 points. Erzurum won the court's proceedings to halt the execution of the district administration court on the matter, and was not launched despite a court order from 2015 until today. Now, Mr. Secretary once said, if you have a court order, give it to me, and we'll return it to you. Believe me, I've read one of the dozen. Please, let's end this power union's beheading. It's been reflected in our universities lately, which is really the future of camping, polarization, business peace, inner peace. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, would you excuse me?
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0068par0616	Here, I'll turn on your mic, complete, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0067par0617	...will stop it. Look, how does a elected chancellor express himself to a ordained minister when he doesn't deserve it? These are very troubling things: he's assigned me to fight the Commander-in-Chief. For God's sake, is that a word to be said in an academic institution? Is this the law enforcement agency? It's better to warn those who are using their authority wrongly on behalf of someone here. We're trying to deal with a faculty secretary, even an administrative officer, let alone an academic staff. That's a really bad way to go, footsteps. So let's take the educational community as a whole, because really new generations, new generations, will save the country, and we believe that. I say we respect the rights of those who teach many letters, not one letter, but the honor of your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0069par0622	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Müslüm Doğan, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0070par0626	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the parliamentary research motion for the CHP Group to examine the problems of our teachers and teaching professions and take precautions. I salute your sentence. It is remembered at a Teacher's Day, where teachers who have been victimized at every opportunity, worked little, and vacationed a lot. The most basic problems facing immediate solutions are a professional group that is decided on the rights of teachers without discussion, without the opinion of teachers. All national education services have been established by the ruling union to create new assimilation institutions completely unscientific, and there have been charges in that direction. In no way have teachers' economic and social status been discussed openly and clearly. As no positive decision has been made for the children of people of different ethnic and religious faith who live in our country at these conferences, the country has been ignored. That look, of course, will make the education problem complicated. The problem is solved by having freedom and a democratic view. You won't be able to overcome the problems and you won't be able to. Compulsing the belief and teaching of the Alekis on the the theology axis has also led to an unresolved point. You can't solve the Aleki's expectations in the field of education without freeing this faith and teaching in the field. The solution is to convert mandatory religious lessons into optional education. We should not be afraid to teach the native language. Pluralism is a fact, and it's the shortest way to the democratic nation. In our country together, in our common land, to see each other incomplete, to ignore each other has caused problems to become heavy. We need to be aware of what a heavy bill this process has made to our nation's people. The EC PARTY, which alone has been in power for 15 years, has never been a goal to improve the growing working and living conditions of teachers, to reduce the increasing workload, to make sure that they receive a fee worthy of human dignity, and to at least bring the quality of education to the average of OECD countries. With 4+4+4 in training, there has been a major upset in the already troubled educational system, and teachers, students, and parents have faced major challenges. In each step, the Ministry of National Education is working to pave the way for teachers, assistants and civil servants to work more, and their most fundamental demands are ignored. In fact, this 4+4+4 system was clearly expressed by scientists in the field of education to disrupt the country's education system, to prevent it from settling on a solid basis. In fact, it is time for the Ministry of National Education to review the 4+4+4 system. It is also debated that this system facilitates assimilation, that the process of resuscitation, alienation, and exclusion during the training process. The increasingly flexible, unconcerned and unsecured working conditions, the increase in chore practice, and finally the eye for job security, are pushing the education workers into great anxiety and pessimism. Thousands of training workers have been removed from the profession with the illegality of the State of Emergency. When a decree is issued in each rule of law, the list of decrees in this law is examined, in a manner of speaking, by a dove's nervousness. They don't want to hear any more of the familiar speeches of those who haven't stepped forward over the years to solve the social and economic problems of hundreds of thousands of educational workers, who ignore the real problems of teachers. While education and teachers need permanent solutions to their problems, jobs and procedures are being made to save the day. A comprehensive study took place between November 9, 20, 2015, in order to first-hand determine the opinion of teachers regarding their increasing working conditions and problems. In 7 districts and 40 districts throughout Turkey, Ankara, İstanbul, İzmir, Adana, Bursali, Diyarbakır, Eskişehir, Artvin, Ağrı, Tunceli, Malatya, Edirne, Kırıkkale, Cırklareli, Mersin, Muş, Van, Hakkari, Şırnak, Sinop, Çorum, Tursus, Kars, Tokat, Muğla, Nevşehir, Kırşehir, Kastamon, Konya, Karaman, Army, Aksaray, Gireson, Bartın, Yavul, Zong, Zong, Zong, Zong, Zong, Zong, Zong, Zong, Zong, Zong, Zong, Zong, Zong, Zan, Zan, Zan, Zong, Zan, Zan, Zan, and. In this study, valuable lawmakers have been determined that there is no safe view of the future in a country where education is religious and pressure is religious, one type of education is being raised, four+4+4, the transformation of schools and schools, support for private schools and religious educational institutions, political staffing, job security and rights are being threatened, there is no safe view of the future in a country where there is violence and oppression; education is going to be poor, unemployment is going to be a big problem. Let's go on with the evaluations: the textbooks are hollow, and I'm worried about the students. The teacher says. Discrimination, politicalisation of education, the inconsistency of educational policies, the disregard for education, education, the lack of interest in education, polarisation, future darkness, mandatory instruction for students, especially religious lessons; the lack of decision-making of crowded classrooms, mandatory electives, educational policies by educators, assimilation and social lynching culture, and many of the same findings that have been extended in education. So, increasing the problems of education workers and the lack of solutions actually demonstrate the way they look at education in our country. In Turkey, the problems of the educational system that have been unresolved for years continue to affect teachers and other educational workers much more negatively than their colleagues in other countries. The difficulties that teachers have faced in Turkey for years are unacceptable to take concrete steps to create permanent solutions to their problems, although they are known for what conditions they must work. Teachers working in Turkey are among the highest-working, low-paying teachers in OECD countries. Why don't you try to solve the problems of your fellow teachers, fellow lawmakers who have been teaching amongst us? Are you clear on your conscience, Congressman? Today, 80 per cent of teachers were forced to do additional work in order to earn a living, and two thirds were forced to live by debt. Teachers have become virtually toys in the hands of political power and the Ministry of National Education because of the changing education policies. More than 300,000 unemployed teachers have not been appointed without permanent solutions to the teacher's deficits, and more than 40 unemployed teachers have been officially driven to suicide. In education, the flexible practice of training, the teacher's employment at different positions that do the same job, the career steps and performance evaluation practices have made the training workers rival each other. Because of the lack of sufficient funding for education, teachers have been reduced to collectors forced to raise money from students under various names. The majority of teachers have increased occupational diseases in parallel with the increase in labor and workloads, especially when they are forced to work on new responsibilities, after 4+4+4. It is known to all of us that because of their use of democratic rights and participation in trade union studies, many teachers each year face investigations, exiles, and punishments. At every opportunity, members of the EDUCATION-SEN in particular are being investigated, and you know that some of them are being sentenced to banishment, pay cuts, penalties, decrees of the law and discharge. The economic and autonomy problems of servants and officers have been ignored for years, and servants, officers, technical and administrative staff, just like teachers, demand permanent solutions to their problems. Dear lawmakers, teachers must be valued within public workers. The demand for human wages, especially additional indicators, must be made urgent in order to maintain human life after retirement. In this sense, all additional payments in retirement must be reflected in basic wages and pensions, and the application of tax language must be fixed to prevent the melting of wages. The additional course fees must be rearranged in accordance with the conditions of the day, and should be increased by at least twice as much. The education-school education allowance for teachers at the beginning of the school year must be two times a year, at the beginning of each term, and should be at least one salary. In education, flexible, uncompromising and forced labor practices must be stopped, and all attempts aimed at performance assessment and job security should be abandoned. Private service compensation must be paid to servants and officers. All obstacles to public workers' rights to a collective agreement on strike must be removed, new restrictions must be prevented. I salute you all in that sense.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0071par0645	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. Mehmet Akif Yilmaz against the Republican People's Party Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0072par0649	Mr. President, I've been promised a group proposal by the Republican People's Party Group on the problems of our teachers and teaching profession. On this occasion, I salute our great Assembly, our beloved nation, our future all over our country, our precious teachers who shape our children, who fight hard to train, and, again, our country, our country's unity and unity, peace and trust, our security forces fighting their lives abroad and abroad. We have a martyr in our town of Hassaten, Kopeeli, Darica, who died in this struggle, and tomorrow we will bury our beloved brother Murat and all our martyrs with mercy and gratitude and gratitude. May their souls be at peace and their dwellings in heaven. Dear lawmakers, no doubt the mission our teachers carry on for the future of our country is of course sacred, and the work they do is above all recognition. It is incumbent upon us as politicians, with power, with opposition, with better opportunities, with better circumstances, to work and work for them to perform education and teaching services. There is little for them what we do, and what we do is not sufficient for them. Of course, we are pleased and happy that our teachers and their problems have been expressed in our Turkish Parliament and on all platforms, and that they have been sought solutions and solutions for them. But when we carefully looked at the proposal the Republican People's Party Group has brought, the most important element of our country's most fundamental and serious issue of education is the fact that they have made this proposal about our teachers and their problems, unfortunately, their insensitivity and carelessness -- I regret to say -- has upset me as a teacher. Even in the way the motion is being prepared, the data the authors used as data, the statistics are from 2013. With data from four years ago, it is full of unjust and offensive accusations against our power, our power, at the point of education, from the day it was founded and from the moment it came to power. More than that, our esteemed MP, who just spoke for the CHP Group, offended me on behalf of our teachers while listening here on behalf of our teachers, accusing our appointed teachers this year of indecency, lack of driver's license, this teacher has hurt the conscience of our young, teacher-to-teachers, and our teachers expect at least an apology from him. You can criticize the interview system, but he took the KPSS exam, he passed the first review by taking serious notes on this test, and then he was assigned to the interview system, and it's unfortunate to accuse our teachers, who are currently running for teacher, who have been accused of inadequacy and lack of driver's license. Dear lawmakers, there is a sentence in this proposal that I agree with and like, that can't be solved by celebrating a Teacher's Day year. We've already spent 15 years in the field of education, in the field of education by the past governments since we came to power, in the effort of fixing and healing the destruction of teachers and teachers' education, in the mindsets of Teachers' Day. From the moment we came to power in 2002, our nation witnessed that we discussed education as Turkey's most fundamental and most serious issue, and the numbers witnessed. Because, from the moment we come to power, the data that we're going to put into place will show this, but I want to make it clear that we're taking very important steps from here, as we do in every field in the first place, to expand the field of freedoms, and to remove the barriers and barriers in front of education. At the point of the depriving of our headscarved girls of education and correcting the issue of clothing, it took place during the time of the AK PARTI rule, which our teachers, whose postmodern coup on February 28th denied training services -- alhamdulillah -- were restored to education. Let me make it very clear that we've been trying to build labs and not convince rooms in our schools for 15 years. We were trying to improve our schools and enrich their resources. The education source in the budget, which was 10 billion in 2002, is now 122 billion in 2017. The testimony of our deputy who just spoke for the CHP Group has really taken us by surprise. It says, where is 10 billion, 122 billion? Education has been the most funded area in all our budgets. Again, RD spending in education has increased from 57 million to 2.8 billion. The number of classrooms, look, during our 80-year-old governments, the number of classrooms we reached in 2002 is 347 thousand, today -- 15 years later -- 616 thousand classes, which is exactly twice as many. Eighty years where, fifteen years where! This brief struggle shows us the success of the AK PARTY in the field of education. There are several allegations in the proposal that our EC PARTY has been wrong and wrong again, claiming that the teacher's increase has remained 24 per cent since our government came to power. This is the most unfair thing to do to us. Because in 2003, our number of teachers reached 900,000. I mean, 561, 000 transfers in 80 years... is that enough? No, it's not. We're going to keep fighting until we're done with the whole thing. Not a single lesson will be wasted in our national education and schools. The current level of teachers corresponds to 62 per cent, and the proposal refers to this 24 per cent, which we correct. Again, our teachers' salaries were 470 TL in 2002; our minimum teacher's salary increased by 2.713 TL in 2016 by 477 per cent. This is a serious increase; is that enough? Of course, no number, no number at this point, we don't see enough. We're trying to improve the economic situation of all sectors in every area, and we're going to work hard, and that's what we're doing. Another false claim in our schools...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0073par0659	Here's your microphone.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0072par0660	Another false claim on the proposal is that our schools have mandatory and pro bono watch. For all we know, our teachers are actually laughing at the suggestion. It's not like we don't know so much about the field as the representatives of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We all know that with the regulation from 2016, the actual watch has been paid to our teachers two hours a week and three hours a week starting in 2017. Please, at this point, those who prepare our proposal can correct these wrongs by taking promises from here. The claim that our teachers provide education in a poor working environment is also evident by the testimony of our nation and by the educational establishments that we have brought to our nation. I bow to our beloved nation, and salute our great coven, and your delegation.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0074par0664	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0075par0665	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0074par0666	Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0075par0667	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, I'm here to inform you that my motion is sloppy and nonsensical...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0074par0668	Here you go, Mr. Havut. [[Applause from CHP rows]] According to Article 69, I give you my word for two minutes.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0075par0673	My fellow lawmakers, I drafted that motion in 2015, so it came up today.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0076par0674	I need an update.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0075par0675	See, the situation of education, Mr. President, is expressed in the following words: "Unfortunately, education and culture are the weakest rings of our country's great transformation over the past 14 years." It's not me, it's the President. Second, look, Congressman, we can determine what a country's education is based on external criteria. Look, Turkey is the 50th place in the measurement between 72 countries in 2016 and unfortunately, its mathematical average is TEOG. 1 in science 2 in Turkish. It's 200 percent in math that zeroed out at LYS, 241% in science. This is the painting we came to in training. As you say about teachers, the Ministry of National Education needs 93, 000 teachers, according to its own data right now. Open up. Look at the Ministry of National Education website. I recommend it.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0077par0678	That's what I said.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0075par0679	Fix it, look at the site, that's where I got the number. Also, look, when the National Ministry of Education's budget comes to power, the Justice and Development Party is now 17.18% invested in investments in 2002; now 8.23 per cent.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0078par0681	Look at my number, look at the number, look at the percentage, look at the number.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0075par0682	The budget for the Ministry of National Education is up, but 80 per cent of the budget for the Ministry of National Education is up, it's up to 10 per cent of the staff costs, it's up to 3.78 per cent of the investment, so there's no investment in the Ministry of National Education.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0079par0683	He's an investment teacher.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0075par0684	Look, my dear friends, in order for us to have national education as an international competition, we have to make the budget for national education as much as the European countries, we have to raise education investments in the European Union criteria, or there are no teachers left listening to us.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0080par0685	We'll get 21,000 more teachers.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0081par0686	Thank you, Mr. Havut. I will submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0082par0691	The number of decisions, sir...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0081par0692	Is the decision enough?
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0082par0693	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit01spe0081par0694	There is a demand for a sufficient number of decisions. I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger. I'd like to invite the members of the group to my office.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0081par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 69th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the Republican People's Party group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday/2/2017 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President This section of Law Bills 269, 431 and 94, which are included in the section "Objects of Law and Other Affairs From Commissions" of the agenda, shall be ranked in rows 3, 4 and 5, and shall be ranked according to the order of other tasks; On Wednesday (March 1st 2017) and Wednesday (April 12, 2017), the meeting of the General Assembly of the "Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions" on the agenda, without discussing verbal questions and other audit issues; It's recommended. The Justice and Development Party Group proposal is in favour of its proposal and I will make a pledge to the members of parliament who are demanding a word against it. The first speaker on the proposal is Hasan Basri Kurt, Samsun MP. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0083par0020	Thank you. Mr. President, my esteemed deputies, I have made a commitment to the group proposal given by our AK PARTY. I salute you all. We have international contracts that have been on the agenda of our parliament for a long time that both concern our bilateral relations and concern our engagements to international organisations. Our fellow members of the opposition parties at the Foreign Commission know that our Foreign Commission has become one of the most meeting commissions in the 26th century. There are international contracts from the 23rd term, the 24th term, which have not been discussed until this period, there are agreements. They put us, our government, our House, in trouble when they go abroad or when the rulers of that country come to this country. We also expect support from opposition parties for the immediate discussion of this agenda. The agenda that's being distributed in front of us is very thick. These international contracts hold a serious part of this thickness. Hopefully, with the support of the opposition on this issue, we will pass these international contracts as soon as possible. We're moving up three international contracts. One about the environment, the other about economic cooperation. We know that all groups share the sensitivity to the environment, we believe. We'll put this in the third place. We also have an agenda on bilateral economic development of Singapore and the Dominican Republic, and on increasing trade in these countries, and on developing economic relations. We'd like to move them up, hopefully, to the point of international contracts with the support of opposition parties, all three opposition parties. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0084par0026	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Master Erhan, Samsun MP against the Justice and Development Party proposal. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0085par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, in a sense, here today comes the Justice and Development Party with a proposal for a new agenda for Congress's work this week. Of course, it wasn't much of a pre-designed, well-known thing. What we've always criticised is that Congress is working unscheduled, and today we're actually experiencing an example of it. But on the other hand, society has problems that are waiting, or rather they have problems that are looking for solutions, we have serious problems. This issue of international agreements is important, and we don't even have opposition in most of them, we're in favor of a quick transition; there's no problem. However, when we have so many economic and social problems, it's not right that no law can be discussed this week, or that the government doesn't come with a proposal or a bill. So how else are we going to solve these problems? We can overcome these problems by making law in the House. Therefore, the government must bring in a bill of law on the pending issues. If the government can't bring in a bill of law, we've got a bill of law waiting, so let's discuss it. We've had laws here that have been waiting for months. What are they, the law proposals we're offering as the National Movement Party? For example, we have dozens of legal proposals to address the problems of government officials. In certain professions, we have proposed laws on injustice, rights of essence, working conditions, permits, monthly arrangements. Why don't we bring this up? On the other hand, for example, we have a law proposal on subcontractors. There is a loss of rights here, so let's solve these problems; it concerns 700,000 people. The community needs love. We call it tolerance, compromise. We hold the problems of a large part of society, and there's nothing we can discuss this week in Congress. Retired pensions are the same. We just talked, we have a lot of serious problems with education. There are so many areas where teachers have to be done, from the quality of teachers to the quality of teachers, to the condition of students, that they need to be arranged, that I don't think it's right to not discuss any of them, as if they were on vacation or to have an attitude that all of Turkey's problems have been solved. We're having serious problems with the Metropolitan Law. This amendment has been made, and we see together what it has done to Turkey today. We've got work on it, we've got a law proposal waiting, but there's no attitude to bring it up, I'm afraid. Again, we call it artiary input on the agricultural sector, we call it production quality, efficiency problems. Here, it needs a discount on diesel; there's regulations, there's needs for electricity prices. This needs to be done, but the motions we've made, the ruling group has no will to bring up any of the legal proposals we've made, and we want to spend this week like this, without any legal proposals. Let's do the international agreements again, we don't object to them, we already have our objections, but we're willing to pass international agreements that we don't object to, but we're willing to do so without speaking, but this Parliament has to discuss the laws that will solve Turkey's problems. Again, there's serious problems with the industrial sector, there's work to be done, there's law proposals waiting for reform. We have a lot of law proposals about the Higher Education Law, about the prevention of bribery and corruption -- which I now count, so I have the list here -- all over the world, and none of that is on the agenda, unfortunately. So, Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we have to run the House more efficient, more planned. Look, one more thing came up today: the protection of child rights. Now, it turns out, without speaking -- our MP speaking on behalf of the National Movement Party Group -- that's what we have a law proposal for -- it's not a healthy way to conduct a parliamentary investigation as such an event goes on. Well, it doesn't open most of the time, it doesn't open, but even if it is created, it's the work done, the work done, the work done. So, we have a permanent commission proposal here to solve problems without any problems or problems. Other parties have similar proposals, even the ruling party has a proposal, but instead of us discussing them in Congress... today, this week or next week, that's probably what's going to happen. There's no point in running a coven like this unsanitary. Such urgent matters can't be accepted by a Turkish Grand National Assembly, which immediately resolves matters in the form of a bag of law after the incident arises, but delays all the work, the basic reform-based work, or the things that need to be done a little bit more thoroughly. So, of course, since this group proposal is brought in by the ruling group, this will pass, of course, but we, again, I don't want to extend the deadline, and I'm not going to use the entire deadline to give the deals some time, but what I'm trying to say is, friends, we have to work with a more planned program, and Turkey has become a ball of problems, and we need the Turkish Grand National Assembly to show the will to solve these problems. I salute you and the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0086par0041	Thank you, Mr. Master. Halil Eldemir, Bilecik MP in favor of the Justice and Development Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Eldemir.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0087par0045	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of our group under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. I hereby salute you and our beloved nation. International contracts are important because as the world becomes global, the nature and importance of the agreements we have made with other countries is increasing. In international contracts today, we put the Charter of the Dair Law on the Compensation of Antarctica and the Environment Protection Protocol in the third place; in the case that the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Singapore is proper, we put it on the fourth place; in the case of the Court of Justice of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Dominican Republic, we put it on the fifth place. Along with international contracts, meanwhile, talks continue on a bag of laws that concern our country and the Plan and Budget Commission. We'll keep these international contracts on the agenda until we land with the General Assembly. I hereby salute you all again, and wish you all the best of these international contracts to our nation and our country.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0088par0051	Thank you, Mr. Eldemir. Levent Gök, Ankara MP against the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0089par0055	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the AKP group proposal. I salute you all with love and respect. We have international agreements on our agenda. As for these long-awaited agreements, the Republican People's Party, as always, will take a constructive stand in favour of ratifying the agreements we signed in parliament, no doubt about it. In fact, I think it should be discussed that these deals should be brought to the House after such a long time. Why are they waiting for years? Three years waiting, four waiting. I mean, this is, in fact, one of the major problems of the House. Now that the government has signed the gold, these are the issues that bind us all, international agreements, so we need to look for ways to get them through this faster and faster in terms of Turkey's interests in parliament. For example, we could have discussed and discussed these things more freely, rather than delay the Constitutional amendment for days. Look, he's finally coming our way. The Republican People's Party has always shown its constructive understanding of the constructive ones. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we're on our way to a referendum process. Nearly sixty days later, Turkey is going to an important referendum, where people's will will will be granted, and anyone who says "yes" or "no" will take over the game. Therefore, the Republican People's Party does not go to the Supreme Court today, on the basis of our president's will, not with respect to the will that will be used in that way, but with an understanding that accuses people who vote in a way that you don't like, not with other perception operations; on the contrary, the nation's sovereignty, the hodri square -- the Republican People's Party is not going to the Supreme Court, as well as with the will of our president today, in a way that applies to the nation's arbitration. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE]
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0090par0058	Bravo.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0091par0060	Bravo.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0089par0062	We respect our nation's decision. Those who say yes have a place above our heads, as do our fellow citizens who will say no. [[Applause from CHP rows]] That's the painting, that's the way it should be. We cannot take those who say yes with terrorist organizations or with other perception operations, with a condescending understanding that makes their vote worthless; such a painting is not in anyone's power. On the contrary, today is February 14th, Valentine's Day, if we can knit love, if we're to become one with each other, let's go to this referendum without fighting or breaking or breaking. Let's have a smiley referendum. Everybody tell me your options, the media's free. I wish it could, if only the ministers, the President, the Prime Minister could speak as much media as the Republican People's Party can, and other opposition parties could, but there is no such environment. Look, we're on our way to the referendum in the state of emergency. But is it appropriate to go to a referendum during the extraordinary process, dear friends? When the state of emergency was declared, Mr. Bozdağ, the Minister of Justice, came here and spoke. In his speech here, in his first announcement, our goal is three months. In three months we'll be able to remove the state of emergency. He said, dear friends. It's in the transcripts. Well, Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Numan Salkli has gone further, and he said: "The State of Emergency will be over in forty-five days." Now, who will we believe in, my dear friends? The Minister of Justice says: "We will finish in three months. " He says: "It will end in forty-five days. " What did the Prime Minister say in those days? The Prime Minister also said: "We are going to a referendum during the extraordinary situation. We don't make you say that. We don't have referendums on extreme conditions, we lift the state of emergency." a prime minister. That's the state of the Minister of Justice, that's Mr. Numan Survivor, that's the state of the Prime Minister. So each one of them will be removed from the state of emergency. They preach, and no one will do it. Well, now, I'm asking the Prime Minister correctly: Mr. Prime Minister, are you going to break that promise? And you're chewing. Why are we being referendumd in the state of emergency? Why did you say the words? Stand by those words or resign. Such a painting is not an acceptable painting, my dear friends. So if the Prime Minister of the entire state says this, doesn't it mean anything? Who do we trust? The Minister of Justice throws more, Mr. Numan Survivi throws more, and the Prime Minister says: "We're having a referendum in the state of emergency. We don't make them say that such a painting is not acceptable. My dear friends, these are paintings that don't suit Turkey. You won't be able to make a promise you won't keep. The politician will stand by his promise. Oh, yeah? We'll be happy. If you're Prime Minister, you'll do as you're told. We expect Mr. Prime Minister to do as he says; he's got time, he's late, but he's got time. Another issue, my dear friends, if you think about how this government is making decisions, is that a lot of academics have been suspended, expelled, and academics, especially Ibrahim Kaboğlu, have been expelled. It's an example of Hitler's Germany. This was done in Hitler's Germany, in the days of fascism, many German scientists, look, I have lists, I have a list of 300 people here -- all expelled from their schools, expelled. Do you know who opened their arms to them? The Republic of Turkey opened it. The Republic of Turkey embraced those scientists, gave them space. Our fellow legalists know that Ernst Hirsch, author of the trade law in Turkey, was one of the most famous names of Turkish law in Turkey. He's a valuable scientist who escaped German fascism and came to Turkey. Now that we're sitting in this room, who built this hall, my dear friends, who is the architect here? Clemens Holzmeister, we live in a building built by an architect who escaped from German fascism, so Turkey opened its lap. Why do we push our own scientists away? It's a shame, it's a shame, it's a sin. So you're going to say: these were issued with a decree. So, are the decrees healthy? My dear friends, this can't be happening. Look, there's the President's signature, the Council of Ministers' signature, the Prime Minister's signature, as it should be. On January 2, 2017, the Council of Ministers, headed by the President, is meeting; the President, the Prime Minister, the Council of Ministers; they are making decisions, my dear friends, making decisions. It is decided that those who are marked here and many others will be discharged based on the decision of the Council of Ministers on January 2, 2017, who are marked with blue on the list you see here. And you know what happens next, my dear friends? The decision of the Council of Ministers, dated January 2, 2017, is based on the same decision, which extradited the same day. How does this happen, if there are valuable AKP people, ministers? My dear friends, the government doesn't know what it's doing, it doesn't know what it's doing. Is there a parallel Council of Ministers? So somebody explain this to me rationally. You will expel the same person on the basis of the decision of the Council of Ministers of January 2, 2017; you will get the same person back on the basis of the decision of the Council of Ministers dated January 2, 2017; how are they, my dear friends? Somebody tell me. The state has fallen, friends, the traditions of the state, traditions, theories, rules. Under it is the President's signature, the Prime Minister's signature, the Council of Ministers' signature. Someone's got to be brave about this, my dear friends. This question was asked to Numan Survivor yesterday. I asked this question in the press release I made yesterday, and I'm also expressing to Mr. Secretary: How are the same people who were expelled and how are they returned to that decision? Explain it to us. Numan Survivor couldn't explain it yesterday, he said, "Let me see." He said, "Is that so?" E, the great Deputy Prime Minister doesn't know what decision he's made, my dear friends. It's taken away in this painting, the state, everything that works in this painting, it's a shame, it's a sin. I mean, it's a falsification of paperwork, my dear friends. So the President, the Prime Minister, the ministers don't know what they're signing under? Is there some kind of construction there, and it's making you wrong again? Explain these to us. We expect clear answers, and we will follow them until we find them, and I salute you with love and respect.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0092par0072	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0093par0073	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0092par0074	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0093par0075	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Gök, in accordance with the practices carried out by the KHK, Hitler has made a heavy taunt with Germany by comparing the current government, and I have a request for a statement according to 69.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0092par0076	Criticism towards the government, Mr. Bostanci?
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0093par0077	That's because it's also a concern for the AK PARTY Group.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0094par0078	The AK PARTY voted to trust the government.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0092par0079	Well, here you go, Mr. Bostanci. Mr. Bostanci had asked for a word on such matters before, and he didn't feel the need to make an additional statement according to tradition, so I just reminded him of him. Here you go, sir, rebooting your time.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0095par0084	Mr. President, thank you very much, and I salute your friends. I thank you very much for the support that all parties and CHP have given in regard to international contracts and will make a judgment based on these promises. We're going to a public vote. AK PARTY and MHP think it's institutional good for the country, for the nation. We'll tell all the voters you're okay. In this direction, we will make propaganda by sharing ideas that will allow voters from different parties to win and change their view of this common goodness. All those who are on legitimate grounds, all those who say yes, all those who say no, we respect all of them. Who says no, who says yes, why... this is a judgmental, insulting language for yes and no, a false language, we know the sources of this language, we deny them. Some of the expressions that have been expressed here from time to time have been tried to be used in foaming beyond their intent and meaning, and we reject that understanding. Terrorist organizations have a position on this public vote, that's what they refer to. The state of emergency is in the process of a public vote, yes, it's going on, right. It's certainly not easy to fight a terrorist organization, a terrorist organization with constant metamorphosis. The state has to carry on this struggle, it's necessary for everyone, not just for the AK PARTY. By the way, it is our duty to correct them, to uphold justice and justice if there are any errors made regarding the KHK. The mechanisms for this are also established. Applications are made, and evaluations are carried out. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Finally, Mr. Sky said: "We must fulfill our promise. " Mr. Sky, this word is in the air from your side as well. The commission reports and the House transcripts are full of promises that you will go to the Constitutional Court at all times. I don't expect you to do what you need to do, it's better that you don't, but you've said those words so much that it's a question mark.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0096par0091	Teacher, you're sorry we didn't go.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0095par0092	He says thank you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0097par0093	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0098par0095	Sir, Mr. Bostanci's assessment of our position with regard to the Constitutional Court in response is far from what I say. In the view that I have just expressed by the Republican People's Party, there was not once a statement as to why scientists were so excluded, but it was dated January 2, 2017 -- although it does not concern him -- the Minister may answer on behalf of the government -- the Council of Ministers has not been able to clarify both the expulsion and the removal of the same people. The issue of the Constitutional Court is a process, which is naturally a subject of the Republican People's Party's discretion. That's not an explanation for what we're saying.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0097par0096	Thank you, Mr. Sky. You know, Professor Ernst Hirsch, the German scientist that Mr. Gök has just mentioned in his speech. The author of the former Turkish Trade Law in Turkey is a scientist. Turkish Trade Law No. 6762 was in force for about fifty-five years. I read about Hirsch's life from a book published by TÜBITAK. He has a very impressive life. He has been a Turkish citizen and has taught many years in Ankara and Istanbul law schools. He's a scientist we can be proud of as the Republic of Turkey. I remember him with respect. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0099par0105	We need to talk...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0100par0106	No, it's over, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0099par0107	How did it end?
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0101par0108	The speeches are over, Mr. Kerestecioglu.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0099par0109	No, how did it end? That's not gonna happen. We'll talk for 20 minutes then.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0101par0110	All inadmissible, motion accepted. Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0099par0112	Yeah, we had a conversation.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0101par0113	...we've finished the talks.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0099par0114	No.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0101par0115	I gave my word to the four esteemed speakers on the list that came to me.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0099par0116	Wrong list, then. No, no, it's wrong, then, so it's been discussed, and we have ten minutes to talk.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0101par0117	Mr. Kerestecioglu, the list of speeches that came to me was as follows...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0099par0118	Maybe, then you've been wronged.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0101par0119	In favour of the proposal, Samsun MP Hasan Basri Kurt, Bilecik MP Halil Eldemir; Samsun MP Erhan Usta, Ankara MP Levent Gök against the proposal. So I invited these speakers and they finished their talks. According to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly (2/1072) main no. I would like to ask that my legal proposal be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda under Article 37 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. 13/2/2017 On the motion to be taken directly into consideration, Mersin MP Serdal Welcuoğlu will speak as the owner of the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Wellencuoğlu.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0102par0132	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on my First Amendment Proposal (2/1072) under Article 37 of the Civil Code. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, the essence of the offer is to compensate for the loss of thousands of our citizens who can't retire because they're on a bonus day, even though they've filled the age and year requirement for retirement. We have over 100,000 citizens in this situation. Because of their age and economic difficulties in our country, these citizens, who cannot complete their bonuses, are having difficulty living and living. One of the things that it takes to be a social state is to find a solution to the problems of the victims. In particular, it will solve the problem of a large percentage of society, to ensure that people who are over a certain age, who do not have the ability to work in this situation, have a backwards loan. In our country, where unemployment is officially in the 20 percent in the actual figure, where even young people can't find work, it's a problem for them to find work. The ministry's work on finding a solution has been reflected as good news, but no concrete steps have been taken. What to do here is to add a temporary clause to Social Insurance Act 5510 and the General Health Insurance Act in order to ensure a once-in-a-lifetime debt to our citizens who have not completed the number of bonus days for various reasons. I believe our ruling lawmakers will also support the immediate removal of these victims. Dear lawmakers, the date has already been set, but the referendum has already put pressure on what they're going to say no to. The government's most competent speakers began making statements that had almost declared the naysayers terrorists. Finally, the president's statement is very grave. It is not acceptable for the President to present the referendum as the rematch of July 15th, and to declare it as the "No." Those who did not want the public to understand what the constitutional amendment would bring, the change to the public's game, did not even broadcast the debates in parliament on TV. Those who advocate the Constitutional Amendment continue to tell us irrelevant, irrelevant things, where they're going to tell us what the Constitutional Amendment is and their content leads to one man's administration, because they know that they can't explain this undefended constitutional amendment to our human beings. The referendum also states that conditions will not be equal, that the government will use any means, state resources, funds, media, pressure and will increase any pressure. First, there is no referendum in the State of Emergency. Everyone knows what their intentions are to go to a referendum in the State of Emergency, to transfer 3 billion euros from the defence industry to the Non-Control Fund for three months, to eliminate the obligation to be neutral in the referendum, to help, money, pressure, coercion, staff and employment opportunities. But, don't worry, our people understand, whether you tell them or not, the only man who has no control knows what will bring to Turkey. Our people know that in 1923 the sovereignty was taken from the Dolmabahçe Palace and given to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; in 2017, ninety-four years later, the sovereignty would be taken from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and given to the Court of Fivetepe. Our people understand that the referendum is not a party choice, that there is no presidential election, that there is a regime and a system change, and that they will respond by saying no. Our people say they will own the republic, democracy and freedom, and I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0103par0142	Thank you, Mr. Wellencuoglu. On the motion, Hüseyin Çanaak, Mersin MP will speak as an MP. Here you go, Mr. Pineak.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0104par0146	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group in favor of the proposal for amendments to Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510. I salute the General Assembly. Although they already deserve to retire in terms of the number of premium paydays, hundreds of thousands of people who have been victimized by the age limit are now waiting for you to consider this bill and accept it. Before retirement age is raised, the right to retire is officially imposed today, when those who have pre-1999 insurance entrances are eligible for pension payday and the right to retire when they complete working-year terms. One of the most fundamental differences between a country on the border of civilization and a banana republic is the protection of the rights established in law as the right to authority. I mean, even if there was a change in the law before the relevant law came out, it shouldn't be covered. In all the developed countries of the world, there's immunity to earned rights. Let's put an end to this sacrifice by agreeing to this proposal of the law. Sadly, the victims of Law 5510 are not limited to that alone. As part of the general health insurance policy, we continue to call it the unemployed child tax. Imagine a state who has not been able to provide employment, who has already been burdened by the income of their families, and who has not taken advantage of its unemployed citizens for a health care service. He can say, "What do you do? Bring me this much money." These GSS loans come to us as a massive paradox that literally means the bankruptcy of the social state. Imagine that because you can't pay, the government is writing you the money for the health care you already can't afford, and they're charging you interest, and because you're an unemployed citizen of this country, the debt is piling up on you for thousands of dollars. When you apply to the hospital, you can't get health care because you owe GSS money. However, the reason for the GSS debt is the cost of this health care that you haven't received in the past few months. Now, I'm asking you from here: could there be such a strange paradox that would rob the loan shark of the services of an entire state that should be the greatest foundation of its citizen? On the other hand, according to Article 56 of our Constitution, the state is tasked to ensure that everyone survives in body and mental health. Dear lawmakers, in my profession, let no day pass so that a citizen can call me and tell me that I can't be treated at the hospital because I don't have insurance, and I don't have money, so help me out. I'm calling private hospitals, calling colleagues, asking them for treatment. The government, which saw that on June 7th, it lost a significant number of votes from young people because of its unjustly depriving of health care while the unemployed are in debt, has wiped out the GSS debts of those under 25 years of age, but this disgrace is still increasing to billions of dollars expected to pay for by millions of unemployed over 25 years of age. This mandatory debt, which does not add up to reason and conscience, is almost unrefundable. Look at the reaction of the GSS victims in the social media, the common statement of almost all: they come, they take what we have, but we can't pay such an unfair debt, they say. As I mentioned earlier, I'd like to ask you once again to have mercy, please get rid of this GSS shame. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0105par0155	Thank you, Mr. Pineak. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, Mr. Sakarya MP, has reached our presidency on 13/02/2017 as to the resignation of Mr. Akba as a member of the Presidential Court. It has been presented to your knowledge. I want to thank Mr. Azba for his service during his membership in the Presidential Court, and I want to wish him the best of his service as a member of parliament.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0106par0161	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0105par0162	Mr. Sky, come in. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0106par0166	Sir, thank you. Mr. Orhan Sarıbal, the father of Mr. Orhan Sarıbal, died yesterday, and today he was buried in Bursa. Once again, we extend our condolences to our Bursa MP Orhan Sarıbal, his family, and all his loved ones, as the Republican People's Party family. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0107par0169	Thank you very much, Mr. Sky. The father of Orhan Sarıbal, our MP, died yesterday. So I called him yesterday to offer him my condolences and my blessings from God to his father. For once in your presence, I ask God's mercy to the father of Orhan Sarıbal, to Orhan Sarıbal, and to his family.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0108par0175	Mr. President, we agree with the message of condolence. We also offer our condolences to Orhan Sarıbal, and to his family, that his place may be in heaven.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0107par0176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Of course, I make this wish as the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0109par0178	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0107par0179	Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0109par0182	I also offer my condolences to the family of Mr. Orhan Sarıbal. And our dear spokesman, Ayhan Bilgen, who is now under arrest, his wife's brother, has also passed away. In the same way, I'd like to offer my condolences to him, hoping he'll listen to us from here, from prison. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0110par0187	I learned from you, too, Mr. Kerestecioglu. Mr. Ayhan Bilgen, I ask God's mercy on his wife's brother. Dear Bilgen, my condolences and my condolences to your family. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0111par0191	Mr. President, thank you. Lord Orhan Sarıbal has lost his father and his place is in heaven, and we share his pain. Mr. Ayhan Bilgen, his brother-in-law has died. In the same way, we share his pain, our condolences. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0112par0195	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0113par0198	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, feel sorry for the death of Mr. Orhan Sarıbal. Likewise, I express my condolences to Ayhan Bilgen Bey for the death of his brother-in-law. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0114par0202	Thank you. Congressmans, we're moving on to the part of the agenda. Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoglu has been nominated as a clerk for the Turkish Grand National Assembly's membership in the National Movement Party Group. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congratulations to Mr. Ahrazoglu, we wish him well on his new assignment. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues and move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will begin negotiations between the Republic of Turkey and the Russian Federation between the 1st and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of the Criminal Reciprocal Aid and Restitution Agreement for Criminals. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Russian Federation between the Republic of Turkey and the Reports of the Foreign Commission and the National Defence Commission on the Approvement of Agreement on the Lands of the Turkish Federation. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 440 rows. The entire bill is not covered by a member of parliament who wants a word. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The government of the Russian government and the government of the Republic of Turkey, as well as the government of Russia, as well as the government of the Russian defenses, as well as the government of the Russian defenses, as well as the government of the Russian forces. MADDE 1- (1) was approved on 3 December 2012 in İstanbul, with the approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Russian Federation Government of the Russian Federation on the Lands of the Republic of Turkey and the Agreement on the Lands of the Russian Federation. On the 1st article, political party groups have demands for their words. On behalf of the groups, the first speaker is Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0115par0231	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have been promised the views of the National Movement Party on Bill 440. I salute the grand jury. The issue is about the 1st article, but in general, it seems to be intended for the construction of the martyrdom monument of the Russian Federation for Turkish soldiers buried in Krasnoyarsk, who lost their lives in prison camps during World War I, as well as for the identification of the dog tags of Turkish soldiers in three cities, and the adoption of the agreement that aims to build a monument in these cities. The bill appears to be unanimous in the commission. After reviewing the commission report, the request from our Ministry of National Defence in 2009 for the construction of the martyrdom monument for Turkish troops buried in various parts of the Russian Federation, and for the necessary research to be carried out has been suggested by the Russian Federation to sign an agreement between the two countries on martyrdoms, as per our request. This framework shows that the agreement was signed by foreign ministers at the third meeting of the Turkish-Russian Federation's Supreme Business Union Council, which was held at the prime minister level on 3 December 2012, while the Russian Federation completed its internal approval process on 11 December 2013. However, it turns out that the internal approval process in Turkey has been very late, especially due to recent tensions in our relations with Russia. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, as we all know, our relations with the Russian Federation have been up and down lately. In our relationships, unfortunately, recent events have occurred. The tense period, which began in 2015 when the Russian plane was shot down, began to normalize after the government of Davutoglu. After July 15th, relations between the two countries took on efforts to move back to their former level in each area. In December, the assassination of the ambassador was aimed at co-operation between the two countries, but during an air strike carried out by an ISIS aircraft belonging to the Russian Federation on Thursday (February 9, 2017), the events of a bomb hit a building where our soldiers were stationed and, in this context, confused the events following the martyrdom of four of our heroic soldiers. The Russian Federation explains that it was an accidental incident that caused our soldiers to become martyrs, but then it was disturbing to all of us that it sent confusing and suspicious messages. In our General Staff's statement, it has been confirmed that our soldiers who had been shot down by Russian aircraft on February 9 have been in the same spot for ten days, that on February 8th, the Russian Armed Forces attaché was invited to the General Staff, and the coordinates of the locations of our troops were given once again. However, as Mr. President-in-Chief stated, Russia's attempt to deflect the air strike into the Turkish Armed Forces is once without good intentions, without neighbouring law, troubled. It is wrong for Russia to martyr our soldiers, and then to pass on to the "pardon" and even to step on top and accuse the Turkish Armed Forces, to disregard the fundamental principles and rules of international law. What is the purpose of Russia, what is it trying to do, and it needs to be explained. Moreover, the account of our martyrs must be asked by the testimony of our Mr. President- the criminals must be found out, the punishment they deserve. On this occasion, I pray once again to God for mercy to all our martyrs, and to those who are still under treatment for immediate healing. Turkish-Russian relations have at times continued in history in the form of peace and war, and this process has finally developed an experience. During the Cold War, Turkey's NATO relationship was not well received by Russia, although some industrial relations have improved positively. After the plane crash -- as I've just said -- relationships have gone away from normal navigation, they've become troubled. There is still a danger of migration in this region, in the region of Russia and Turkey. These countries are mostly Arab Muslims. It's possible to include Iraq, Syria and the others. How did these Turkish-Russian relations develop after this period? If you say, oil and natural gas alternative nuclear energy co-operation, not only that, other sectors are affected quickly; these are trade, tourism, energy, finance. Talks and contacts seem to continue in the worst cases, from the statements of the parties. Russia's Western embargo affects relations, and its reflection can change us in a precise way. It is certainly true that when we examine events in human, commercial, and political areas, they are affected in these areas. Of course, Russia's view of events as a plane crash and after the recent incident, a number of concerns appeared in the eyes of our nation. Russia's view of Syria and developments in this country is important to us. It can be argued whether Turkey is a partner or a rival with Russia, but when the problem arises, it is clear that when economies are in trouble, the situation is not good. In customs talks, problems have been largely tried to overcome, but the problem remains in the export of fruits and vegetables age. The number of foreign visitors to Turkey has declined significantly since last year. In tourism, he found the missing $9 billion due to the Russian crisis. These are official figures from the Deputy Prime Minister's statement. Our exports to Russia declined by 51-52 per cent in 2016 to $1.7 billion from $3.6 billion. Antalya's economy was especially hit. This can be described as agriculture, trade and tourism. These damages are not yet compensated. After the normalisation of relations with Russia, it is important that relations in the areas of investment, trade, energy, construction, and tourism are developed rapidly, at least to reach its former level, but it is imperative that it be based on mutual interests, not on one-sided, interests, and a sense of surrender. Now, while seeing the bill as positive for these reasons, we can see the impact of the Russian plane after it was shot down, with instructions from Mr. Vice President Ahmet Kenan Tankulu Bey, our vice president, during our visits to the region, especially these tourism areas, agriculture, tourism, housing, working life and other services, there are significant effects in the field of exports and other services. When you look at exports in size, constraints on export products, short-term financing in volumes and orders, problems in the short-term need for short-term financing, decline in production of goods and goods and product prices, difficulties in the collection of recent export prices, reductions in the collection of market prices, reductions in the housing sector, reduction in the demand for foreign housing, recession in the construction sector, recession in construction repairs, decline of employment, decline in production and revenues, loss of revenues, loss of revenues in the markets, increase in the price of recent exports, increase in cost in the economy, reductions in the cost of housing demand for foreign housing, reductions, reductions in construction, reduction of employment, reduction of employment, reduction of employment, loss in the lack of employment, loss of employment and loss in production and production, reduction of employment, loss of employment, loss in production, loss in the loss of production, loss of production, loss of production, loss in cost in the reduction of production, loss in domesticity of production, loss in domesticity, short market markets, short-reduction, reductions, short-reduction, reductions, reduction of employment, reduction of employment, and reduction of employment, short-reduction of employment, reduction of employment, reduction of employment, reduction of employment, reduction of employment, reduction of employment, short-reduction of employment, reductions, and reduction of employment, reductions. It's not an easy thing for them to recover -- as the government sometimes says. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We see the bill as positive, so we want it to be legalized. I salute the grand jury. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0116par0244	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on Article 1, Filiz Kerestecioğlu, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0117par0248	Mr. President, I have made a pledge between the government of the Republic of Turkey and the government of the Russian Federation on the deal between the Russian burial sites and the Turkish burial sites. But first, before this agreement, I really think that the account should be paid for our soldiers who died and the statement called "friendly fire." First of all, before we sign any agreement with Russia, I wonder where we really are, what other deals we're making, and what's behind all this, why our soldiers died; they need to be explained to Turkey's public and Parliament. We're interviewing today on dozens of international contracts and contracts. International contracts are the promises the states make to each other, but many of the contracts come to the state table with the pressure of public movement. The most important of human rights contracts were created to meet the people's peace demand so that the destruction of World War II would never happen again. These are the agreements that maintain peace in Europe and in the world. Turkey is also the ILO, the signator of important contracts of the United Nations, the European Union and the Council, but if you say, "How long are these contracts being respected?" (IPU), the Inter- Parliamentary Union (IPU) has voiced concern once again about continuing human rights violations around the world and not being respected by parliament's immunity. During the January 2017 session, the IPU Parliamentary Committee for Human Rights made decisions on 227 parliamentary cases from 16 countries. More than 100 MPs, dear friends, more than 100 MPs in 227 MP cases come from only three countries, Malaysia, Nicaragua and Turkey, and, of course, at the beginning of them, the People's Democratic Party of Turkey. The Union finds the situation in Turkey so serious that it has appointed a special delegation to investigate the situation in Turkey. In his statement, he was surprised to explain to the public that there were more than 500 files on HDP MPs for their use of freedom of expression. The government has run out of political international organisations that do not demand immediate release of lawmakers. The Union also demands that our arrested MPs be released immediately, not violated their rights to meeting, expression and organisation. Turkey is on the European Council's side. The Council of Europe has a report on parliamentary immunity. The report stipulates that each member of parliament performs its parliamentary duties freely, especially the freedom of parties in the minority to express their thoughts is the basis of democracy. Unfortunately for the AKP, agreements and international human rights themes are completely abandoned. Is it possible to have a democracy where men of law and judgment are inseparable? These forces should be not only separate but equal at the same time. Today, however, the political government mediates the judiciary by instructing the judiciary, sometimes causing judicial institutions to take bias. The arrest warrants made against our MPs have damaged the democratic rule of law and caused the public to lose confidence in judicial institutions. The Constitutional Court has yet to disclose its decision on our arrested MPs, despite the precedent of lawmakers that law enforcement can't be prevented. The fact that a court that ruled on Twitter in eight days still hasn't disclosed its verdict on the system crisis caused by lawmakers for months because of their imprisonment is clear evidence of the control of the court. The indictments of the arrests of HDP Co-Chairs Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ and Mr. Celaltin Demirtaş who were arrested on November 4, 2016 were approved by the courts 90 days after their arrest; yes, the indictments of our friends were approved by the courts. The indictment of Figen Yüksekdağ was sent to Ankara, so the trial date is still undetermined. The trial date of Demirtaş was given to him on April 28, 2017, one hundred and seventy-five days after the date of his arrest. The same is true for other MPs who were arrested at the same time. The first hearings of the files they were arrested will take place months after they were arrested, especially after the referendum was held on April 16th. Isn't he a manipulator? The fact that the hearings of the co-chairs and MPs of the third largest party of Parliament will be held six months after their arrest should not be acceptable in democratic politics -- within the democratic judiciary, of course -- in the democratic judiciary. But here, with its power, with its opposition, everyone goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on Life just doesn't work out for us, guys. If we're going to a referendum, if we're going to talk about the legitimacy of this referendum, a referendum process with co-chairs and MPs of Turkey's third largest party cannot be a legitimate process. Those who speak of human rights, justice, democracy really have to go and look in the mirror. Democracy should be for everyone, equal, free propaganda should be for everyone. Today, it is not only enough that our co-Chairs, our MPs, are being arrested, but they are also being relieved of their job as chiefs. It's a very dangerous process on the way to the referendum process, isn't it? What is the purpose of the dismissal of the chiefs? Are there changes to the record? Or our friends, who have conducted all of our election studies -- they've reached almost 800 in the last three days alone -- are being taken into custody while our same friends will work for the referendum. All of them in the field, all of them working in front of everyone. There's no legitimate referendum like this. Remove this, and it will be said yes by the decree of the law. Then, clearly, you can do whatever you want. Don't put no there, just pick up the no. Say yes. That's when you'll do something more elegant, really, be more direct. Perhaps at a later date, just as the Kenan Universe was judged, then we too will see that because of these practices, these illegal practices have been judged by judicial decisions. Well, folks, we're not here during the House broadcast, we're a little bit on our own, but we're congressmen. The congressman should actually be a person of reputation, so a parliamentary position shouldn't be an easy win; it's not. Then you must all have your words. Even if you're not a lawyer, you know the law, the universal rules, we know, we have to know. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Then, please raise your voices and state your commitment to democracy, to universal rules, so that one day the same thing may not happen to you, and let this Parliament do what it needs to end the arrest of our friends in a way that will suit itself. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0118par0257	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Third speaker for the groups, Özturk Yilmaz, Ardahan MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0119par0261	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Federation of Russia to confirm the Agreement on the Lands of the Russian Federation and the Lands of the Turkish Treasures of the Federation. I salute the High Council. We'll talk about relations with Russia. First of all, relations with Russia have become sensitive in every period of history. There has never been a long-term stability or long-term peace between relations between the Turks and the Russians in particular. There's always been wars, wars, and then peace, and again, war and relations, they've always gone through this synchronization. Now, the current Russian administration is extremely powerful, and Putin (putin)'s powers are extremely powerful, so the nature of relations with high-ranking authorities in Russia's relations with Russia is fundamentally affecting the system of relations at the bottom. If your relationship is good at the level of leadership, it reflects on the bottom; it reflects on the economy, tourism, trade, everything. If it's bad, it's reflected in a very bad way. In our relations with Russia, in our bilateral relations, we continue to depend on Russia for energy and tourism; unfortunately, we have not been able to break that addiction. After the incident of the plane crash, especially the break-up of relations, then Russia's sanctions against Turkey, and as we look at the process after that, Turkey suffers. We've become very dependent on Russia, both in tourism and energy. At the same time, when relations with Russia do not work well with exports, the Turkish economy is seriously damaged. Russia doesn't actually sell much to the world except oil and gas, but it's reflected in the diversity and relationships of our exports. First of all, we have problems with our relations with Russia, and also potential co-operation. When we look at our problems briefly, it's a matter of trust. After the dissolution of the Soviet Union in particular, our relations developed, developed rapidly, but the trust issue was not completely eliminated. This comes back to life from time to time with minor events, and trust crisis affects the general course of relationships. The second issue is that we are most sensitive: Russia does not see the PKK and the PYD as a terrorist organisation, and it makes it difficult for Russia to develop a solid systematic relationship with Turkey. The third issue: a different Syrian design is seen when we look at Russia's draft constitution in Syria, especially when we look at its opposition. This is essentially not in Turkey's national interest. The fourth time we've been separated is the so-called genocide. Russia has a different attitude on this matter. Smoke has its decisions, and Duma can heat up the so-called genocide from time to time and bring it to Turkey's agenda. In related Turkey-Ermenistan relations, especially in OSCE Minsk Group relations, Russia does not hold a fair position, where it takes a position on the Armenia side. Fifth: There are also sensitivities regarding the territorial integrity of Ukraine. What we're sensitive about is the essence of Crimean. Russia took Crimea from Ukraine, adopted it, and went to arrangements on the status of Crimean. Which, unfortunately, is something the government doesn't keep on the agenda, but we haven't slept, and that's what's on the agenda. Another thing is Georgia. Russia does not respect Georgia's territorial integrity, it differs with Ossetia and Abkhazia, and Turkey also has problems with those issues. The latest issue of Cyprus. In Cyprus, especially when we look at the attitude that Russia puts on during comprehensive solution talks, we see that it looks more like Cyprus in the eyes of the Greek Cypriot government. Now, these are problems, but there's an important potential. When we looked at our relationship system with Russia, there were similar problems in history, when Russia took the Astragan War and began to spread throughout Central Asia. It's never a rose garden. So we're going to solve all problems here. We're going to try to solve problems, but we have to improve our relationships, we have to take a realistic stance. It is always a strategy for Russia to have more control over Ukraine and the Black Sea, to have more control over Georgia and Caucasus, to have more control over the Caspian and the Caspian before, and to have Syria and the Mediterranean now. Russia has played the game wisely every time in history. Now, we have to be sensitive and careful to develop relationship systems with such a global power. Because you're bored with the U.S. of Syria, and we're going to act with Russia. You say, at the first meeting, we're going to show the opponents a map containing cultural autonomy in Syria, which includes regions in Syria, Russia is such as Russia. There's a Russia that sees its national interests above all else, sees its own regional, global interests above all else. Our energy dependency and our dependence on tourism will affect our relations this year in particular. See, the year of tourism is going to be dull again this year because last year there was a huge decline. There's a $10 billion loss. I'm afraid the government has nothing to make up for it this year. The year of tourism is almost open, there is no proper study. Now, when Turkey's hand is too weak on this issue, when it's too dependent on tourism, when it's too dependent on energy, it can't make an independent policy in Syria, it can't make an independent policy in Caucasus. While we're planning this foreign policy, trying to figure it out, we need to understand all the dimensions of the event. Russia is a friend of ours, yes, a global partner; Russia is a neighbor of ours that we cooperate in many areas. It's all true. It's also true that we need to develop our relationships, but we also need to know the facts. First of all, we need to strengthen our country, strengthen our own country, strengthen our hands. When we go to a co-operation with the global actor on regional issues, international relations, we have to calculate well. When the issue of Syria comes to Geneva, it will be clearer how much we disagree with Russia or how much we differ. This process will not be a rose in relations with Russia in 2017, because there is a Syrian issue, there is still a recession in bilateral relations, but Russia has reservations. The speed and area of relationships depend more on Russia than Turkey. At such a time, we have entered 2017 and there is much to make up for in relations with Russia. Now, I'd like to point out one more thing. After the breakup of the Soviet Union in particular, the Russian people witnessed a leadership that they were not accustomed to during Yeltsin, and became stronger and more possessive. As we analyze Russia, we need to carefully calculate the global ambitions, global approaches, and ties of leadership in Russia with the Russian people. In particular, it is a good example for Russian public opinion to gather around Putinafter the shooting incident, for the Russian public to understand Russia's sanctions, as if it had taken office and sanctioned companies against Turkey, before further sanctions were issued at once.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0120par0279	Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0119par0280	Because there is a system in Russia that is unlikely to lead to a healthy relationship with Russia without understanding that system. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-02-14sit02spe0120par0283	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Talks on Article 1 have been completed. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to request that members who can't get into the system ask the technical staff for help, but who can't get into the system, to deliver the ballots to the presidency within three minutes scheduled for the vote. Also, if there are those who are going to vote, I'd like them to vote for which minister, the color of the game, and the ballot bearing its signature with its name and name, again, during the scheduled time for the vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] A clear vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Russian Federation Government on the Lands of the Republic of Turkey to confirm the Agreement on the Lands of the Turkish Federation of Degrations: The bill has been passed and it's legal, so be it. We will begin negotiations with the Environmental Commission and Foreign Commission Reports (1/592), which are ranked in the third place, where we are eligible to join the Antarctic Agreement Environmental Protection Protocol. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 269 rows. There is no one who wants a word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... will be admitted to their Articles. ANTARCTIC ATTITUDE PROTOCOLUM RETURN PROTROCOLN MADDE 1- (1) It was appropriate for us to participate in the Anti-Antarktica Agreement Protocol of Environmental Protection, which is the supplementary part of the Antarctic Agreement, which was agreed on by the Council of Ministers, dated August 3, 1995. (2) The Council of Ministers is authorized to approve changes related to the additions of the protocol. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2- This goes into effect in the history of Law publishing. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm reading the third article: The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, I suggest that all of the further international agreements be held by an electronic voting device separately: those who agree... those who refuse... are accepted. I'd like to suggest that the vote be conducted with an open voting device. I will not repeat the general rules of the open vote, but I will read them once again to your knowledge: I'll give you a minute to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and even with this help, the members who can't get into the system will have their ballots delivered to the presidency within a minute scheduled to vote. In addition, I would like to ask that the ministers who will vote by proxy vote vote be voted by any minister, the color of the game, and the ballot bearing his name and name, again delivered to the presidential office within a minute scheduled for the vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of a clear vote on whether we are eligible to join the Antarctic Agreement Environmental Protection Protocol: ▪ Number of votes used : 223 [[X]] The bill has been passed and it's legal, so be it. We will begin talks with the Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, ranked number four, in accordance with the approval of the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Singapore. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed by 431 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. REPUBLICATION OF SERBEST TRACY WITH TURKEY REPUBLIC The approval of the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Singapore, which was signed in Antalya on November 14, 2015. (2) The Council of Ministers is authorized to approve changes related to the supplements of the agreement mentioned in the first joke. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you a minute for an open vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] A clear vote on ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Singapore: [[x]] The bill is legal, so good luck. We are starting talks with Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked fifth in the ranks of the Turkish Republic's Government and the Government of the Dominican Republic, in accordance with the Agreement for Economic Co-operation. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed by 94 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE PROGRESS OF THE CONCOMMITATION OF ECONOMIC WORK IN THE ARASITION OF DOMINIC REPUBLICITY WITH THE COMMUNITY OF TURKEY Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the government of the Republic of Turkey and the government of the Dominican Republic was approved on 15 April 2014. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I read the conclusion of an open vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the government of the Dominican Republic that Agreement for Economic Co-operation is in order: ▪ Number of votes used : 217 [[x]] The bill is legal, so good luck. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, and with the Foreign Commission Report on the Companies for Agreement Against Investments and Protection. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 340 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The establishment of Turkey's rule and the establishment of the Republic of Turkey and the establishment of the Constitution and the establishment of the establishment of the establishment of the Constitution and the establishment of the Constitution and the establishment of the Constitution and the establishment of the Constitution. MADDE 1- (1) was approved on 11 December 2013 in Ankara. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Benin has been approved. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to submit to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Bill that Agreement Against Investments and Protection Between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Benin is appropriate: ▪ Number of votes used: 225 [[x]] The bill has been accepted and legalized. Good luck with that. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Turkey between Culture, Education, Science, Press-Agreement for Co-operation in Youth and Sports and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed by 39 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE REPUBLICATION OF THE TURKEY COMPLICATION WITH MY REPUBLICITY IN REPUBLICATION, PRODUCTION, EDUCATION, BISIM, SPAIN, AUTHORITY AND THE CONSITION OF THE CONTINUATION OF THE COMMITATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNION OF ME MADDE 1- (1) Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Benin between Culture, Education, Science, Press-Agreement on Youth and Sports was approved on July 9, 2012 in Ankara. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, I would like to submit to you the conclusion of an open vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Benin to ratify the Agreement for Co-operation between Culture, Education, Science, Press, Youth and Sports Areas: ▪ Number of votes used: 225 [[x]] The bill has been accepted and legalized. Good luck with that. We will begin talks with the 8th Republic of Turkey's Government and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approval of the Scientific and Technological Co-operation Protocol between the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Benin. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 250 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE REPUBLICITY OF TURKEY COMMUNITY AND MY REPUBLICITY OF REPUBLICATION IN THE ARISION OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THOLOGICS AND THE PROTOCOLOCY The adoption of the Scientific and Technological Co-operation Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Benin, which was signed in Ankara on July 9, 2012. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 3 is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to submit to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Bill, in which ratification of the Scientific and Technological Co-operation Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Benin is appropriate: ▪ Number of votes used : 222 [[x]] The bill has been accepted and legalized. Good luck with that. We will begin negotiations with the National Defence Commission and Foreign Commission Reports (1/583), which are ranked in the 9th place, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Benin, in accordance with the Act on Defence Industry Co-operation. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 302 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. CONSIDERING THE CONTROL OF THE CONTROLATION OF TURKEY COMMUNITY AND THE CONTINUATION OF THE CONTROL OF ME IN THE REPUBLICITY OF REPUBLICATION The approval of the Defence Industry Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Benin, which was signed in Ankara on 1- (1) 15/9/2014. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 2 is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I would like to present to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Bill, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Benin, that ratification of the Defence Industry Co-operation Agreement is in order: ▪ Number of votes used : 222 [[x]] The bill has been accepted and legalized. Good luck with that. We will begin negotiations with the Turkish Republic and the Foreign Commission Report (1/325), which are ranked in the 10th place, in accordance with the Strategic Association and Association Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of Agreement for Co-operation in Maritime Area between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Greece. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the National Defence and Foreign Commission Reports, which are ranked 12th in the Turkish Republic's government and the Defence Industry Co-operation Memorandum Approved between the Kuwaiti State Government. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 138 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. With the government of Turkey and the government of the Republic of Turkey, it is possible that the defence of the defense is admissible. The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Defence Industry Co-operation Covenant between the State of Kuwait, which was signed in Ankara on 29 April 2013. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I would like to present to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Court of Justice of the Republic of Turkey and the State of Kuwait for Defence Industry Co-operation. ▪ Number of votes used : 219 [[x]] The bill has been accepted and legalized. Good luck with that. We will begin talks with the Court's Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked 13th in the ranks of the Turkish Republic and the Faroe Islands, in which the Free Trade Agreement between the Kingdom of Denmark is appropriate. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 285 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE CONTROL OF THE CONTACT OF SERBEST TRACY BECOME TO BE CONTINUED IN THE ACTION OF DANIZARIAN KINGDOM WITH THE TURKEY REPUBLICATION WITH THE FAROE PEOPLE. The approval of the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Faroe Islands, signed in Ankara on 16 December 2014, was approved. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2- This goes into effect in the history of Law publishing. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. I'm reading the third article: The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, I would like to submit to you the conclusion of the open vote in accordance with the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Faroe Islands in accordance with the Danish Kingdom: ▪ Number of votes used: 224 [[x]] The bill is adopted and legalized. We will begin negotiations between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Government of Afghanistan's Government of the Islamic Republic of Iraq and Turkey's Government of Habibe Kadiri Schools for Girls and the Agreement on the Association and Actions of the Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report, signed between the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, on February 14, 2011, on the Common Use of the Historical Gateville and Razi Black Border Gates, and on the adoption of the Protocol That Changes the Covenant. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 356 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE PROTHOLOCY OF THE 14 THURSDAYS INTERVIEWED IN THE INVESTIGATION OF REPUBLICITY WITH THE REPUBLIC REPUBLICATION OF THE TURKEY REPLICATION OF THE REPUBLICATION OF REPLICATION MADDE 1- (1) was approved on June 9, 2014 in Ankara by the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Protocol under which it was signed between the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on February 14, 2011. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 3 is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, I present to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Law Charter on the Approved Protocol for Joint Use between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Government of Iran's Islamic Republic of Iran on February 14, 2011, and Razi Black Border Gates on Joint Use: ▪ Number of votes used: 229 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin talks with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Foreign Commission Report, which was signed between the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, on March 22, 2010, in accordance with the Joint Use of the Historical Esendere and Sero Black Border Gates. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 357 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE PROTECTION OF THE PROTECTIVE ACTIVITY OF REPUBLICITY WITH THE INVESTIGATION OF THE TURKEY REPLICATION OF REPUBLICATION MADDE 1- (1) Approved to the Joint Use of the Former Esendere and Sero Kara Border Doors signed between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on June 9, 2014 in Ankara has been approved. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I submit to you the conclusion of the open vote on the adoption of the Protocol for the Joint Use of the historic Esendere and Sero Black Border Doors between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Iranian Islamic Republic government: ▪ Number of votes used : 227 [[x]] The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey (1/510) and the Foreign Commission Report (1/510), which is ranked in the 17th ranking of the Government of Turkey, and with the Government of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 169 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE PROGRESS OF AGREATION IN THE ACTIVITY OF ACTIVITY IN THE UNIVERSE OF KINGDOM IN THE UNIVERSE OF COMMUNITY AND THE CONTRACTION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TURKEY REPLICATION OF COMMUNITY The adoption of the Government of the Republic of Turkey, signed in the United Kingdom on November 23, 2011, and the Covenant for Co-operation in the Defence Industry Area between Great Britain and the United Kingdom government of Northern Ireland were approved. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 1 is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I would like to present to you the conclusion of an open vote on the adoption of the Covenant for Co-operation in the Defence Industry Area between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and Great Britain and Northern Ireland: ▪ Number of votes used : 227 [[x]] The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. We will begin talks with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of the Memorandum of Agreement for Co-operation in the Energy Area between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission's report has been printed and distributed with the number of 195 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. CONTINUES TO THE CONTACT OF COMPLICTION OF COMPLICATION The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey, signed in Ankara on September 17, 2013, and the Memorandum for Co-operation in the Energy Area between the Government of the Pakistani Islamic Republic, has been approved. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, I would like to present to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Legislature (Secretary Law) that Approvement for Co-operation Between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Pakistani Islamic Republic is appropriate: The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. We will begin talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Foreign Commission Report on the Perpetration of the Security Co-operation Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with 109 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. AZERBURITH REPUBLICATION WITH THE COMMUNITY OF ENGLISH REPUBLICATION CONTROL TO THE CONTROL OF CONTROLATION OF PROTECTION OF PROTECTION OF PROTECTION IN THE AZERBUCTION OF COMMUNITY The adoption of the Security Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, which was signed in Ankara on November 13, 2013. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 2 is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I submit to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Legislature Bill, that ratification of the Security Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan is in order: ▪ Number of votes used : 219 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran between Turkey-Iran and the Government of Iran in accordance with the draft of the Law and Foreign Commission's Report on the Approvement of the New Black Border Doors in Turkey-Iran Hududu. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions were not to be found after this, the decision was made, on Wednesday (February 15th 2017) at 14 p.m. to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00, and I wish you a good evening.
