tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 81st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Dear MPs, today is March 14th Medical Day. Our physicians and all of our health workers, dedicated to serving humanity, are part of a selfless, holy, honorable, and exhausting profession. I sincerely celebrate the Medical Day of our physicians and all of our health workers, who work without distinction, without a member of any ideology or slave, to bring people back to health. On this occasion, I wish for a brighter Turkey, where all health problems have been solved. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Kayseri MP Ismail Tamer, who asked for the occasion of March 14th Medical Day. Here you go, Mr. Tamer.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0002par0013	Mr. President, thank you. Today is March 14th Medical Day, and I hereby make a pledge. I salute and salute the Turkish people who follow us in front of the Veterans Assembly and televisions, all of you. Today is March 14th, Medical Day. It was founded in 1827, in the history of March 14th Medical Day. But we do know that for the first time in history, the Seljukite was the Second. Kılıçarslan's daughter, Gevher Nesibeh Hatun Healing Hospital... in 1204 Gevher Nesibeh Hatun Hatun gets verem's disease, then she gets the mercy of Hakk, but Gevher Nesibe Hospital is established in her name, and Kayseri is placed next to this medicine shop -- for the first time in the world, it is opened in Kayseri -- and is now being used as a museum. Dear lawmakers, health care is an important service that every person in the world needs at any moment, and when they need it, it desires the most perfect. Our esteemed President has also stated that it is a sacred profession. It is the greatest desire and duty of health workers to serve and serve the patient within the framework of those medical deontological rules that they have taken. It's been doing that for years. The Turkish physician has arrived at an important place in the world today. I'd like to pay tribute to these Turkish physicians. In particular, I honor and thank the Turkish doctors, who were martyrs in their duties, and I pray for their mercy. Deontological and medical ethics are one of the biggest differences that come to mind when it comes to health care, health workers conduct their professional lives within these rules. As a physician, I can easily say that health workers put their profession ahead of everything they do, even their personal life ahead of them, even their family. I'd like to share a moment with you. When I was an assistant, after 36 hours of seizure and seizure, an emergency patient, hernia, herniated hernia, needs to be rushed in and operated on. But I got a phone call, saying that my wife, my daughter -- she was only two and a half years old -- was burned. In a place like Erzurum, he says he spilled hot water on it on winter day, and a large portion of it burned. But first, is he my child or is he sick? The patient was in the lead. First, I'd like to perform the patient's surgery and then explain here that I'm interfering with my daughter. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Besides, I'm sure all Turkish physicians have acted the same way, and they continue to behave that way. I'd also like to state that the health workers are above all else because they perform a sacred mission for us. We, as an AK PARTY, also highly valued the physician, made significant changes in their rights, improvements. When I graduated, my salary was 1,200 lira, dear friends.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0003par0022	Good money.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0002par0023	Yeah, it's good money. Today, a surgeon can now receive close to $10,000. Is this all right? It's not enough. It needs to be improved. There's a need to compensate for the shortcomings in their rights. And I'd like to say that we've been working on that, too. The Turkish patient is very important, he comes first of all. It's the same for the physician. So, in health, we continue to improve the working conditions of these doctors. We especially want to crown them with city hospitals. Hopefully, we'd like to do an important service to the Turkish people in 2018 with 41,000 qualified beds. Again, we're celebrating this important day of health workers, and I'm paying all of you my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0004par0029	Thank you, Mr. Tamer. The second word outside the agenda belongs to İstanbul MP Ali Özcan (Islamic Party) who wants to talk about Istanbul's problems. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0005par0034	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. By the way, I'm celebrating the Day of Medicine. Istanbul has been under AKP administration for 20 years, but Istanbul has not been well managed. Unfortunately, the most beautiful city in the world has become uninhabitable. Istanbul has been a city that has stopped because public transport investments have not been considered important in transportation, and there has been no healthy integration among public transportation vehicles. Investments related to transport are in the form of conflicting structures where road expansion, subway, subway, tram public transport connections are supposed to be complementary structures. The main routes have not been made, only additional lanes are added. They caused more traffic jams. It must now be understood that tunnels, intersections, road expansions in the city centre are not the answer to the traffic problem. The solution to traffic is the completion of Marmaray, a sufficient level of subway and railway lines. In 1992, the subway was laid down. If there were 10km of subways in the municipal budget each year, there would be 300km of Istanbul today. However, the railway road in İstanbul, including the subway and tram, is a total of 140 km (40 km). In 2009, the constitution of Istanbul was considered 1/100. Everything that wasn't in the 10,000 scale Istanbul Environment Plan was built to Istanbul, and it is being continued to be done. Despite the opposition of scientists, universities and experts, the burdens and problems of urban life were not taken into account, the worst harm has been done to Istanbul. An unregulated construction of Rant has made Istanbul one of the most troubled cities in the world. It has been delivered to the Istanbul malls, to the towers in the area of the plot, under the name of transformation and renovation. The city's empty spaces, the earthquake gathering centers, the urban transformation were never looked at as public service. Istanbul's shores and silhouettes have been wasted for the sake of the runt, with historical and cultural values such as Galata and Haydarpaşa, who should be protected. The urban transformation of the city and its location should be done with common intelligence, social and economic consideration, with regard to the environment and nature; aesthetic, habitable, sustainable life should be aimed at. That's when you serve the community. Buildings, engineers, architects, urban planners are not discussed with their understanding; real estate developers, contractors, tear-downs, and construction models. With projects that don't serve humans, you've destroyed water basins, forest areas, creatures, ponds, old and new waterways, and you've corrupted the ecological system. You cut off the air current and caused pollution and heat islands to form in the city. You've seen our natural resources as a means of commercial meta and a means of transportation to allies. In 2003, you did not implement the Istanbul Earthquake Master Plan of İstanbul Metropolitan Mayorship, the earthquake, urbanization reports and decisions prepared by the Ministry of Public Works and Housing in 2004 and 2009. In modern and democratic countries, cities are considered as one. The planning of cities is essential for urban values to be preserved and moved into the future. Let's take our most beautiful city in the world, Istanbul, out of being an uninhabitable city. With respect to man and the environment, let's conduct it in a planned, scientific way. In order to implement a democratic, transparent, participating and effective local government understanding... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let us entrust our Istanbul to those who truly love it. My respects.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0006par0044	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Ozcan, and finish your words.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0005par0045	Thank you very much. I came prepared today, finished.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0006par0047	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Ozcan. The third unscheduled statement is from Antalya MP Ahmet Selim Yurdakul. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0007par0052	Mr. President, my dear lawmakers, good citizens, today is March 14th, before I speak, I celebrate the 14th Day of Medicine of the entire medical community, with my love and respect. Today is the only day the health community's problems and proposals are being discussed. We, the National Movement Party, have been closely monitoring health policies in our country. Before the AKP government, we regret to see that our citizens, who have been treated and treated without money, have to present themselves today as if they had nothing to offer for their health. Even with general health insurance, it is not possible to accept that our narrow-income citizens, such as examinations, examinations, treatments, and medicine, will have to spend every step of the way in hospitals. Despite the sacrifices of doctors, nurses, and assistant staff who have to examine 80 or 100 patients every day, it's hard to miss the low wages they receive. We're out of words for warning the AKP government that still doesn't qualify for the health community's share of weariness. What conscience can accept the modest pensions for our health workers who can't retire and who are almost forced to work to the grave because they know they're going to have a hard time living in retirement? Unfortunately, the AKP government has also made the subcontractor system a political tool in the health system and the rights of our young people who have been trained in health care have been undermined. The bright Turkish youth, whose number is 400,000, have serious economic, social, and even health problems as they wait for appointments for the majors where they are trained. These young people should be employed at family health centers, new living centers and city hospitals as soon as possible. Respected citizens, the government is likely to give the medics the good news again during the day, as it has done for years, but as soon as he puts his head on the pillow on March 14th, he will forget it. The health community is treated as foster children through the Health Transformation Program. This selfless community certainly doesn't deserve this treatment, and it certainly doesn't. Respected citizens, respected lawmakers, not a day goes by where health workers are not exposed to violence or even threatened. Apparently, the government ignores the violence caused by it in the field of health. Today, the health community is the most violent professional group since the security forces. In addition, the government says there is a medical deficit, setting up a medical school in almost every town, making people, especially the expert physicians nervous. The amphitheaters of hundreds do not have medical training, and those who pretend to be are evil to the Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, what do we recommend as the National Movement Party? The Health Transformation Programme, which is the cause of almost all problems in the field of health, should be removed immediately, because the Health Change Programme is a policy that brutally increases the demand for examination, study, treatment and medicine that harms the health of our citizens as well as our national budget. A citizen waiting for health care should no longer be seen as an ATM. 13 pencil additional fees taken from our citizens under the name of examination, examination, analysis, medicine, and so on must be terminated immediately. Protective and preventive medicine should be introduced as a basic health policy. In order to prevent violence in health, the law of violence in health must be brought to our Parliament immediately, without delay. Health workers' salaries and pensions should be raised to human levels they deserve.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0008par0060	I'll turn on your microphone, complete, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0007par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. In addition, return capital revenues must be reflected in retirement. As the National Movement Party, we will bring together an ideal Turkish health system that will please both our health workers and our patients, our citizens, our family physicians, give priority to protective health care, give priority to education and RD studies, and in any decision taken in the field of health, we will bring in the opinion and approval of all concerned parties, and that policy is ready. Then there will be a health system that will suit the Turkish nation. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0009par0065	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. Members of parliament, the non-responsive talks carried out under Article 59 of the Interior Charter have been terminated. Now, I'm going to take turns making promises to lawmakers who are asking for word by entering the electronic system. The first word is Mr. Clumsy. Here you go, Mr. Clumsy.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0010par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. The Law No 6528 prevented children over 12 years of age from going to school to avoid teaching under the name of the study centre. In accordance with Article 687, others were scheduled to be closed on July 1, 2017, except for those who were taken from student education centres to the transformation programme. There are 2,006 student education centres and 40,000 employees across the country. About 500,000 students receive services from these institutions. Will you prevent 500,000 students from being victims of 40,000 employees and service from around here? Study centers are the centers where working parents are forced to send their children, and the decision to close should be reconsidered. Shouldn't a reasonable time be given for the transformation of the study centers? Students, parents, teachers, they're all victims. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0011par0076	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0012par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating the health workers' March 14th Medical Festival. In the 904 years since the founding of our Republic, 65 governments have been established, and the average lives of governments have been 17 and a half months. The number of governments over two years is only 17 and 26 percent; the number of governments under two years is 48, 73 per cent; the number of governments under one year is 36, 55 per cent; the number of governments under six months is 17, 26 per cent. Sadly, a few months of government work remains, given the amount of time that has passed since it was clear that a government would fail to establish it. Therefore, there is neither stability nor security. So, in order to eliminate these problems, the constitutional amendment we're going to say yes will give the governments five years of execution, and political stability will become permanent. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Powerful governments will be guarantees of peace, security and freedom, an effective model of governance, guarantees our republic's prosperity and development.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0013par0084	Mr. Aydemir...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0014par0086	Mr. President, thank you very much. Turkey has experienced a major positive change in every area in the past 15 years. In particular, the world's vision of health was created. This approach is the result of the white case's first human-focused philosophy of service, which records man as the most honorable of all creations. The sacrifices of our physicians and health workers in the success of this process are beyond all recognition. Mr. Recep Akdağ and Mr. Mehmet Müezzinoğlu, who are concerned with health, celebrate the March 14th Day of Medicine of all our physicians and health workers, and, of course, the entire country is satisfied with healthcare services, and I salute the president with our gratitude and thanks for all of our fellow citizens, who have made Erzurum a health-mark city.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0015par0089	Dear Arik... Dear Yým...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0016par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it's March 14th Medical Day. I'm celebrating the Medical Day of all our health workers, especially doctors. Mr. President, this is my question to Mr. Health Minister: Although there are several dialysis patients in our district, and there are dialysis centers in other districts, unfortunately, there is no dialysis center in Sivaslı State Hospital. From here, Mr. Health Minister, we demand that this dialysis center be formed immediately. Mr. Minister of Agriculture, I demand the same thing: the transformo-trafo used in irrigation, which is used in agricultural irrigation in Selchikler, a town in Sivaslı district, unfortunately is not working very small. And here's to expanding this transformer and...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0017par0097	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0018par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. With the application initiated this year at the Nationals of Higher Education, students were admitted to the hall fifteen minutes before the exam period, while those who were a few minutes late were allowed to lose a year without being known for flexibility. The Student Selection and Placement Centre states that this has been announced. Can such a solid arrangement be expressed as ▪ when the exam began at 10 p.m. and was only 15 minutes late? Young people who have waited for this day for a year and who have lost their rights a few minutes late for the exam must be reconsidered. Victimship is not a condition when the exam begins. Therefore, the authorities' statements on this matter are not acceptable. The victims of young people must be compensated. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0019par0103	Dear Nurlu...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0020par0105	Mr. President, I'm celebrating the March 14th Medical Day of our dedicated physicians and all of our health workers throughout our country. Today, however, medical staff, who were not appointed and were not appointed, were deprived of their first celebration of March 14th Medical Day. Under the rule of law, the conditions for being a government official include a security investigation and the condition for an archive investigation. Security investigations for health personnel appointed in November were not launched because they were not completed by the police. For four months, midwives, nurses, paramedics and technicians waiting to be deployed have been victimised. Due to March 14th Medical Day, I'd like to ask for immediate deployment of non-initiated medical personnel, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0021par0108	Mr. Constant...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0022par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. I congratulate you on the March 14th Medical Day of all medical workers, especially doctors. Indeed, the most qualified health care in the world is given in Turkey. Congratulations to all our health workers, congratulations, we're always there for them. In particular, as a lawyer, I would like to point out that we are against violence in health, and we will fight. Don't let them worry, we won't compromise in any way. I'd like to inform our House on another matter. Last week, the AK PARTI Women's Arms were attacked while working in İzmir Bornova, Küçük Park, where they were prevented from doing propaganda, their brochures were torn, and legal procedures were launched against those who did, but the chief of the main opposition party's district had these attackers, which I especially condemn. We've spent days working here on the Constitutional study, and now it's time for people to decide. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Everyone's going to do their propaganda.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0023par0118	Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0024par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating the health workers' March 14th Medical Day. It is stated that a revision construction will take place in the Organised Industrial Region of the Alderman Dilovas. As part of this renovation, there is a high concern that the green areas on Adatepe will be destroyed. Moreover, Adatepe necropolis is a third-degree archeological site. First it was a first-degree area, then it went down to third-degree, and now it's being built? I demand an explanation on this matter.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0025par0123	Mr. Akkaya...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0026par0125	Mr. President, there's been an ad on television and billboards since February: here's an opportunity for anyone who wants to work. The greatest employment campaign in history. All of the employees' taxes and bonuses are from the government. From February to today, this has been announced on all televisions. Mr. President, this ad is completely wrong, this ad is a hoax, because the ad says that the new recruits' bonuses will be met by the government. That's not true. According to Act 687 dated January 2, 2017, the premiums would be paid from the unemployment fund, not from the treasury. The unemployment benefit is a fund that was cut out of the workers' bonuses, and was issued during the Prime Ministership of our third President, Mr. Bulent Ecevit. It is not right to use unemployment benefit in such a way. It is also unethical to decorate Turkey with false advertising to show off with the worker's money.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0025par0126	Mr. Ozkal...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0027par0128	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today is March 14th Medical Day. Despite all the challenges he faced, the sincere efforts of our physicians who perform this sacred profession, heal it, make an effort to ensure that our people live a healthy and peaceful life are admirable. The AK PARTY, which acts on principle, has made and continues to make all kinds of revolutions necessary for a person to live in good health. Everywhere, I sincerely celebrate the March 14th Medical Day of all of our health workers, who care for man, who serve without distinction, who are the embodiment of sacrifice.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0025par0130	Mr. Akadun...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0028par0132	Mr. President, the political crisis with Germany and the Netherlands has upset all Turkish citizens. Of course, behind the political crisis, both countries have accounts for their elections and for the Turkish government's referendum. First of all, I strongly condemn Germany and the Netherlands for their rhetoric about Turkey and the Islamic world. On the other hand, I blame our politicians, who say, "These don't bite each other." The AKP MP says, "I'm sorry about this." The honour of Turkish citizens should not be used to such cheap political maneuvers. In the crisis, Antalya lost 400,000 Israeli tourists; then we almost apologized to Israel, and were still unable to enter Gaza. We crashed the Russian plane, we gave in to the Russians. We still can't predict what the Dutch crisis will lose to Antalya tourism and its tradesman. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0025par0134	Dear Yfriend...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0029par0136	Mr. President, Esenyurt Mayor Necmi Kadıoğlu of AKP is a coup d'état of the Republic. He has shown that AKP has yet to overcome its allergy to the republic and the Ataturk. There has not been a single reaction or warning from AKP's Necmi Kadioğlu. I'd like to ask you what attitude the AKP administration will take for its speech. Second: Again, AKP's Fatih Mayor Mustafa Demir illegally obstructs the Republican People's Party's work on the referendum and does not create Republican People's Party vehicles through the police. What does the AKP administration think of the mayor of Fatih, who committed a constitutional crime? President Erdoğan reacted to Metin Feyzioğlu's attitude last night. President Erdogan...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0030par0140	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0031par0142	Mr. President, despite all our warnings, we see that AKP has not tried as hard to resolve the problems of citizens as it has to do to get the one man's constitution through the referendum. The water shortage has not been resolved, despite all our warnings, in Alanyurt village of Alanyurt, in the District of Afyonkarahisar, Afyonkarahisar Province, Turkey. This village is not properly served. Is it because the Republican People's Party was the 1st in the village? We expect a statement from the authorities. Again, water shortages have been in the village of Turkmen in Afyonkarahisar Province, Emirdağ Province, Turkey. We want to know why the authorities are so insensitive about this. Again, why is the operation of the watering pond in the village of Balçukhisar, Afyonkarahisar Province, in the District of Şuhut, still unfinished about the transfer of the cooperative to Earthwater, and why is that?
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0032par0145	Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0033par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. And I say, "Happy March 14th, Medical Day, to all health workers." Mr. President, I'd like to send my regards to Mr. Idris Baluken, our Deputy Group President, who is also a doctor. Once again, I strongly condemn that the AKP's power, Mr. Group President, has detained our deputy in front of the hospital without even completing the convalescence period. Today, health workers are subjected to violence every day. Mr. President, another important problem is that medical school education is almost impossible. Especially since professors, professors, have faced many problems, specialisation and medical training have become impossible. I'd like to ask you once again to find a cure for this situation. Mr. President, again, the suspended medical staff must be reinstated immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0034par0155	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The visit of TBM Foreign Affairs Commission President Taha Özhan (TBM) to South Africa and the United States was approved by 7/2/2017 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Council of Ministers and by decision 30. These visits are submitted to the information of the General Assembly under Article 10 of Law No. 3620 on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research; I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly After the privatisation of the electricity distribution business across the country, particularly the Adana province, we propose that a parliamentary study of the Constitution be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the TBM Institution, in order to determine the reasons for the problems caused by the meter and invoice costs, the practices created by distribution companies and victimizing citizens, the measures to be taken and policies to be determined. With all due respect. 1) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] 3) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Kayseri]] [[Slap]] 6) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Janitor]] [[İzmir]] [[40s.]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Sinop]] [[Scholarship]] 21) Bornt Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Amasya]] In today's world, electrical energy is as essential as water, one of the essential needs of civilized societies. Electricity is a basic human right. After the privatisation of the electricity distribution business in Adana and its surrounding area, there have been significant increases in electricity failures and cuts in the city, a significant portion of street and street lights are not on and the city remains in the dark. A serious electrical problem is being experienced in Adana and its districts due to problems with electricity distribution. Life has come to a standstill, especially in areas where there's been an intense power outage. The failure of citizens to address this problem has made this problem even more insurmountable. A citizen who wants to know the cause of the power outage that seriously affects daily life, especially energy, is unable to deal with it. Adana is at the top of the cities where the privatisation and insurmountableness of electricity is most painful. Unreported and unscheduled, timelessly increasing power outages have taken a toll on the Adana, and everyone is tired of power outages from businessman to citizen at home. The reason for the blackouts and the weather conditions is highly incoherent because of the problem in summer and winter. In 2005, Energy won the tender on 15 March 2013 under the decision to privatise the Toros' Electric Distribution of Powers, which was established to provide electricity for Adana, Gaziantep, Hatay, Kilis, Mersin and Osmaniye. And as of today, this company allows 7.7 million people in the region to access electricity. This privatisation, unfortunately, has created a series of problems, especially with the most important and routine blackouts, which have not been in our favour of these provinces, particularly Adana. Long-term power outages that bore our citizens in these provinces and reach ten hours a day. The public, as well as producers, tradesmen and businessmen, are fed up with the power outages that affect every part of society, causing financial and spiritual damage. On the other hand, the costs reflected in bills under various topics such as the reading of a post-privatisation citizen's counters and the release of the collection of his costs at the end of the cycle are a separate problem and cause unfair gain and victimization. The immediate removal of all these problems after the privatisation of electricity distribution is a necessity, but it is one of the greatest expectations of public opinion. It would be appropriate to open a parliamentary study under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th, TBMM Administration, in order to assess the reasons for the problems caused by the meter and billing costs after the privatisation of the power distribution operation across the country, particularly the Adana province. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition, we respectfully submit and propose the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the reasons for the problems of milk producers in our country, the policies and measures that need to be established within this scope. [[Burdur]] [[Scholarship]] 3) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[Hatay]] 5) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] 6) Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt [[Inconceived]] [[Çanakkale]] 8) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[40s.]] [[Zonguldak]] 12) Oğuz Kaan Salcı [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] 15) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Eskişehir]] 21) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] 22) Brült Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] [[Amasya]] [[Janitor]] [[Denizli]] [[Aydın]] [[Slap]] The milk, one of the main products of the livestock industry, has recently had serious problems. The most important of these problems is the loss of dairy producers as a result of the price of raw milk being determined below the cost. As a matter of fact, the National Milk Council has not changed the reference price of raw milk, which has been $1.15 since 1 July 2014, and has decided between 1 January and 30 June 2016 that prices should remain constant. However, it is clear that raw milk costs a litre over $1.15 and the price of raw milk's reference is not even enough to cover the costs. On the other hand, late payment of milk costs is another major problem. In the past, manufacturers used to be paid for raw milk every 15 days, while some companies today pay on average every three months. As a result, manufacturers who try to turn their business around by selling raw milk can't buy bait or afford it because they can't afford it. In addition, some companies offer to pay the manufacturers by selling bait instead of paying the milk price in cash. In a similar practice in the past, I said, "If you don't take my bait, I won't take your milk." Some of the great milk industry, which has practically made it necessary to take the bait from its sentence, have begun to use this method again today. Moreover, the milk producers have serious concerns about the quality and content of the oath. Another problem is the number of cows growing rapidly. Because the price of raw milk can't afford the costs, our producers are cutting their cow, knowing that the price of red meat is high. As you can remember, in 2008, more than a million cows were slaughtered in the raw milk crisis, and they had to import live animals and meat a year later, as they rejoice that meat production is increasing during the period. Today, the import of meat and live animals continues to be full-velocity. As a result, if no measures are taken and the cow is not prevented, a bigger meat crisis in our country than it was in 2008 is not a job. On the other hand, the promise of the situation is much clearer, given that the price of $1.15 is a ceiling price, and that the liter of raw milk on the free market is an average price of 80 cents. In this case, the world's milk-and-food parite is at least 5 pounds of food for 1 litre of milk, while in our country, the milk-and-food parity is below 1. However, the reference price of raw milk is set at $1.15, while the average milk markets offer between $2.9 and $3.4. In other words, the industrialist, who takes the raw raw material and puts it in the box, determines the price of the milk as he wants, while the consumer consumes the milk expensively. There have been complaints from our citizens in Burdur that there is supply surplus in milk production and that some companies are slowing down the purchase of milk from the manufacturers. In fact, it is said that the companies in Burdur have decided not to buy milk one day a week and that the manufacturers are desperate. The state must immediately seize this situation and increase the incentives for the production of dairy powder. Besides, dairy dust incentives should be directed towards production, not exports. The Meat and Milk Association should also provide support by taking the milk from the manufacturers. Meanwhile, the City of Burdur has signed a project that can cure milk producers throughout the country. According to the project, our municipality has begun its work on buying dairy products and delivering them to our needy citizens. This project will help eliminate supply surplus in milk and will be provided as food in a healthy environment for our citizens who are unable to benefit from dairy and dairy products. We wish that this project, designed to increase milk consumption and allow the manufacturer to evaluate the remaining milk, will set an example for all our cities. In this framework, we respectfully submit and propose that the Constitution's 98th and Parliamentary Council shall be opened in accordance with Articles 104 and 105, in order to investigate the reasons for the problems that milk producers face in our country, the policies and measures that need to be established within this scope. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the cities where curfews have been declared, torture and murder of women and naked exposure of their dead bodies in the middle of the street, and a parliamentary research commission shall be established under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution in order to examine all aspects of the type of events that are being served through social media accounts. The curfews, which started on 16 August 2015 in Varto district of Mush, have been declared 57 times so far, covering dozens of neighborhoods in 20 districts of 7 cities. More than 200 citizens have lost their lives in curfews, while countless sources have documented violations of their basic rights, such as health, education, housing, nutrition, especially the right to live in Cizre, Sur and Silopi. On December 14, 2015, when the curfew declared in Cizre district of Şırnak province was to close its second month, we witnessed a photo being served through social media accounts on February 10, 2016, and later shared by some media bodies. This photograph, suggested in Cizre, shows that the clothes of a murdered woman were taken off and exposed naked in the middle of the street. Some who were suspected of being soldiers or police around the dead body, but were not identified, were also reflected in the photo frames. In addition, the fact that the woman in the photo has cut off her legs and breasts suggests that she was tortured. The 130th article of the Turkish Penal Code is an insult to the memory of its person, and its 2nd joke is that the person who took part or completely the body or the bones of a dead person, or who committed questionable acts about the body or the bones, will be sentenced to prison sentences of up to two years from three months to two years. Again, according to TCK Article 216, there is a penalty of six to three years in prison for incitement or contempt of the people to hatred and hostility. At the status of the International Criminal Court, any violence against women is considered under the scope of the crime against war, and the crime against humanity. Following the release of the photo in the media-release body, the Diyarbakır Bar has also heard of the crime and has later made a written statement. In this statement, the photos of security officials that can be accessed in the electronic environment have been taken by criminal acts, there is no doubt that there is a purpose for provocation and humiliation of Kurdish citizens, a part of society based on the identity of the deceased and the identity of the deceased. It is clear that the society has been tried to be provoked by giving a message to the people and Kurds, as well as by the inhuman and degrading treatment of the suspects. It is essential to every state of law that the fight against crime and violence should be carried out within the framework of legal provisions and in accordance with the law. In August 2015, when the naked body of Kevser Elturk (Ekin Wan) is remembered as being exposed in the middle of the street in Varto district of Muş Province, there is no doubt that those who expose women to torture and disrespect the funeral can be re-opened to similar situations. For this reason, and for the sake of respect to the national and international legislation mentioned above, it is imperative that every physical assault and torture claim towards the female body be carefully investigated and uncovered in areas of the curfew. Otherwise, any case that hasn't been punished and hasn't been dealt with will cause profound damage to the social and social structure of the public. In short, we demand and demand that a parliamentary research commission be established in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to examine all dimensions of such events, such as the torture of women and naked display of dead bodies in the middle of the street and the service of these images through social media accounts. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Mr. Group, I see the vice presidents have a voice request. I'll give you my word, but I'll remind you of one rule: we promise the group's deputy presidents for two plus one minute before they go on the agenda, and then we promise for a minute after it's on the agenda. In this frame, I initiate the commitment process. The first word is for Mr. Master. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0035par0318	Thank you, Mr. President. One minute, three minutes in this situation?
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0034par0320	Let me remind you: In accordance with the agreement reached at a meeting with Parliament Speakers for the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 7 April 2016, we pledge to the group's MPs two plus one minute in case they demand it, and that's a minute after it's on the agenda. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0035par0324	Well, thank you, Mr. President. Now, I'm celebrating the March 14th Medical Day of all our doctors and health workers. On behalf of the Turkish nation, we thank our health workers, who, under any circumstances, predate human health and make great sacrifices. Of course, our health workers have serious problems, they need improvement in their rights. I think it's necessary for them to take increased work satisfaction while they're working. At the same time, for medical students, yes, the number of students is being increased, perhaps this is a need, but the quality of medical education should not be compromised in any way. I'd like to point out that you have some serious criticism about this. On another subject: We have 350,000 young people who are trained, unassigned, trying to become health workers.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0036par0329	Finish your words, Mr. Master, and I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0035par0330	Thank you, Mr. President. The solutions to their employment must be found by the government as soon as possible. In the past week, especially Germany, then the Netherlands, and in the end, I would like to condemn Belgium's hostile attitude towards the Turkish nation, the Turkish state, and its government, the international law and its attitude to disregard diplomatic principles. If I had a little time, I'd actually be doing a little bit more evaluation on this, but maybe we could do that in the next few hours. However, I think it's right that we, as a country, have a hostile attitude against us, that we should have a reflex before we go outside the diplomatic quorums; that the European Union has an important partner in terms of our exports, tourism sector and financing. However, despite all this, I strongly criticize, strongly condemn their attitudes. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0037par0334	Thank you, Mr. Master. Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0038par0337	Thank you, Mr. President. As a medical holiday, I, too, have come to celebrate the March 14th Day of Medicine, which is a common day of struggle for them, and I wish all health workers a day of nonviolent, productive work, no violence. We think that the pressure they face and the really inhuman working conditions -- particularly the view of patients as customers -- and that the performance system is doing serious damage to both healthcare and patients. However, as Mr. President said today, we think it's a result of the understanding that those who want to run the country like a company want to run the country as well as in health.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0037par0340	I'll turn on your microphone, finish your words.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0038par0341	Thank you. But that understanding does not benefit the country, nor the medics, nor our people, because it needs to be governed by a more public, social understanding. I'm here to say hello to our beloved Deputy Chief of the Group, Idris Baluken, who is also a physician. He has four hearings this month, and I have his indictments, and these are really embarrassing things: a demonstration to protest the death of Berkin Else, an participation in this; a demonstration in Bingol, a demonstration in a sexual abuse case, and an indictment against the massacre of Aleppos. I think it's the shame of this place again, and it's the same time of judgment. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0039par0345	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Incescuz...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0040par0348	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to start by saying that I have once again criticised and condemned the position of Germany and the Netherlands against our ministers and our citizens. In particular, Mr. Family and Social Policy Minister Fatma Betül Sayan Kadam, who has been subjected to inhuman treatment in the Netherlands, I would like to point out that we are condemning their attitude and critical of their lack of diplomatic courtesy, as they try to teach our country democracy at every opportunity, first of all, undermining international law and especially women's rights. I would like to express my regret that our minister has not been able to reach our 50-foot-long consulate, Turkish territory, where our citizens have been attacked with dogs and batons, and that my wishes for healing are once again passed on to our citizens there.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0039par0350	I'm going to turn on your microphone. Finish your words, Mr. Inecubine.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0040par0351	Other than that, it's March 14th Medical Day. I celebrate the Day of Medicine, especially for all of our health workers who serve our citizens for 7x24 hours without interruption. Especially on the night of the 15th of July, we know how they work in their sacrifice and their misery. In terms of health, we've taken steps in our country's most important transformations and transformations so far. Especially since the Turkish National Assembly has established a research commission for violence against our health workers and has contributed substantially to social change and mental change. In that sense, I would like to say Happy March 14th Medical Day again. Again, on March 12, 1921, we have an Istrillal Anthem, which begins with the writing date and the "Fear not." In both July 15th and the future struggle we've fought so far...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0039par0354	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0041par0357	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is March 14th, and we, the Republican People's Party, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, celebrate this meaningful day of all medical workers and wish that one day all health workers will find the opportunity and the opportunity to celebrate this day with the holiday spirit, with the true holiday taste. Mr. President, from birth to death, we owe heart and loyalty to medical workers who serve for a quality of life, for a peaceful life, to raise our living standards every moment of our lives. We owe a healthy, virtuous, long-term life to medical workers -- doctors, nurses, labs, technicians, technicians, technicians -- even all health workers who work in hospitals' laundry, mess halls, on this occasion...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0042par0361	I'll turn on your microphone, complete, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0041par0362	... On behalf of the People's Party of Turkey's Grand National Assembly Group, we offer heartfelt gratitude, loyalty, love and respect, and celebrate their day. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0042par0364	Thank you, Mr. Altay. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 14/03/2017 (today), I respectfully submit that the following proposal of our group should be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On March 10, 2017, Mr. Burcu Çelik and his friends suggested that the rights violations of political prisoners and prisoners in Turkey's prisons be taken ahead of their proposals to be read on 14/3/2017 Tuesday in a joint session of penal institutions and detention institutions and independent delegations in order to be under the control of civilian and independent delegations and to find ways to address the problems given to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in order to submit them to the information of the General Assembly. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal and against it, I will make a pledge to the members of parliament. The first statement, in favour of you, belongs to Burcu Çelik. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0043par0381	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I give my regards and regards to our dear people who have been watching us on the screen, and, unfortunately, to our long-standing co-chairs, our esteemed lawmakers, and our mayors. Yes, I know that I've spoken of this bench countless times about the violations of Turkey's prisons, the cases that have been exposed. I think the House is aware of that, and the esteemed MPs are aware of that. Now, I'm going to take power as a challenge, but I'm looking at the ranks of power, countless less than opposition. And that's why I still think you haven't noticed how serious this is and how important it is. Yes, in Turkey, when we look at history, the conditions of prisons are already under the circumstances that should never have happened, unfortunately, never been approached by healing policies, and unfortunately in the country's own way in both the coup process and in every government that is in charge, we'd like to discuss with you a little bit more about the current state of prisons, dear friends. Anyway, before the extraordinary situation, the prisons had become really difficult to live slowly because why? We already know that the only way to look at prisons in Turkey is by the political atmosphere in Turkey, by the political conjunctural. Now, we have information from both our observations and visits and family meetings, and we have brought this to the attention of the House over and over and over again, after the announcement of the extraordinary state of the violations that began before the state of emergency. But I would like to remind you again that so far, a single concrete step has not taken a single step in order for these violations to be resolved, to be revealed by better policies. The first thing to be done after July 15th, with a decree of law enforcement, the powers vested in prison administrations in the first place, and then, indeed, there is a series of violations that we can't account for in any social state or legal state, the collection of containers from wards, the taking of pillows, the taking of plastic buckets, the taking of sofas, the book bans, language bans, sightings, the bans of prisoners, the closed-opening of phone calls, and the recording of these talks with lawyers, and a series of violations that we can't even count here, unfortunately, continue to happen in prisons. Now, the important thing is we'd like to talk about what we're getting at right now, dear friends. We have always voiced the sick prisoners and prisoners on this stand as another matter that should be on Turkey's agenda, which should be discussed. But what did we say? He cannot stay in the prison. The patient with the reports can remain in the prison immediately. We regret to inform you that they have been converted into the form of these reports. We have expressed that their executions have been delayed, that their evacuations have been prevented here and on every platform we have been on, and today, I would like to address the attention of the General Directorate of Human Rights, the General Directorate of the Justice Department, and the Court of Human Rights. Please let the ministry explain for itself how many people have been discharged from the Forensic Medical Association, who have the authority to decide on these reports, and who are decision-making. Dear friends, what we have come to is that today in our country, Turkey, right now -- perhaps even as I speak, we will get news of another prison -- a hunger strike has been launched in countless prisons. We've said a lot that we shouldn't have come from this platform and therefore we need to find a solution to these violations under the roof of Parliament, but, yes, the point we've come to is, unfortunately, not pleasant. Hunger strikes continue in Edirne Prison, Şakran Prison, Van T Type Prison, Sincan Prison, Ermenek Prison, Menemen Prison so far. Well, when we look at the reasons for these hunger strikes, it's the rights that are required under very human and legal regulations. Yes, what prisoners and prisoners expect of us is the fulfilment of the rights and demands set out under the law. Like, what is this? The simplest way is to meet the right to health and treatment, to redesign the rights of opinion, to be considered within the framework of the law. What they still can't explain is that the newspaper clippings that we see with our eyes during the visit have been torn apart and given to the prisoners, and now they need to be returned from these practices, opening the way for him to enter prison within the framework of freedom of expression and again, the most fundamental rights, the rights of opinion to which the prisoner in prison is associated with the outside. Dear friends, how are we supposed to interpret all the conversations we've had from here, all the students, all the calls we've had, until now, in the first place, the power party deputies, the officials, the Justice Department, not to make a sound? If we continue to remain silent, if we don't turn our face, our eyes, our conscience, our heart, into prisons, I'd like to stress that we will soon be faced with paintings we never wanted, especially from here. What's to be done? We know that the entry of civil society organisations, democratic mass organisations, independent delegations, national and international delegations to the prisons has been blocked. Open the prisons. Instead of locking up all these committees, you must open prisons to these delegations who want to go and meet the prisoners, want to contact them, want to listen to their demands, their rights, their expectations, and seek a solution. So, what did the government do? He closed all these associations with a decree under the first rule of law. To keep it quiet, we've already faced shutting down human rights associations, women's associations, NGOs in order to prevent this organisation from being silenced. Now, while we're waiting for the government to find a solution, again, I'd like to bring to the attention of Parliament what's on the agenda of power: look, there's a bill on the shelves right now. This bill is the draft of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act. In 2013, we know that he came to this Parliament with the General Assembly, but with the pressure of public opinion, again under the pressure of opposition parties, the bill was withdrawn, but he's on the shelves again. Probably how Turkey will evolve, where it will go, and they will bring it up again. What is this bill, what is it you want to do with this bill, I want to make it very brief. This bill is designed to make tear gas, pressurized water, firearms basic intervention equipment. Security guards are authorized to use force at a gradual and increasing level in conditions where no limit is defined, such as preventing incidents that are disruptive, passive resistance. Intervention unit and outside guards can enter the prison with firearms. Law enforcement forces will also be tasked in cases of widespread resistance and violence or other serious dangers that significantly disrupt order and order in prison. Yes, we call it a solution, but the government has very different plans. We hope that this bill will never come to this General Assembly, but we have an answer from today. I salute you all again with love.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0044par0396	Thank you, Mr. Burcu Steel. Mehmet Erdogan Muğla MP against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0045par0400	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the HDP group's proposal. I hereby salute your high council. First of all, at the beginning of my words, I'd like to talk a little bit about the problems we've been having with the countries of the European Union lately. In particular, Turkish officials related to the referendum of Turkey, which the Netherlands and Germany have launched, have been blocked from the work of all political parties regarding Turkish citizens in those areas. Finally, last night, Belgium cancelled two of our party's meetings. We condemn these non-democratic, inhuman acts, and I would like to express that the European Union's swift review of these decisions regarding Turkey should not be blocked by the efforts of our ministers and political representatives in the countries of the European Union. Of course, when we look at the HDP Group's proposal, the prison conditions are specifically mentioned. Officially, there are 132,000 prisoners, 80,000 prisoners, 213,000 prisoners and prisoners today. When you look at the capacity of prisons, that's 202.938. So, right now, the prisons are 105 percent full, so there are 105 people in a prison where 100 people are supposed to be, and as long as we're here, we're looking at the changes in the Penal Code, and we're considering that over 30,000 people have been evacuated in the last few months, which is actually one of the most important, major investment areas that the government has done in the last few months, but this is the view. I need to see how he got here. Turkey is now a crime-making paradise, our borders are open, anyone can come to our country as refugees; there are millions of refugees from Syria, and there are many people from other countries who are refugees in our country, and in the end, it is clear that the work and the lack of anti-crime law enforcement forces have been made to reduce the tendency to commit crimes. Of course, after the crime has been committed, of course, the perpetrator will be punished, and there is no problem here, but there is a need to be a little more careful consideration of the measures the state needs to take in reducing its tendency to commit crime. Look, there are about 9,000 people convicted of terrorism in Turkey today and 50,000 prisoners. Given that some of these 50,000 people are members of the PKK, DHKP-C and DEAS terrorist organization, it is clear where the wrong policies of the past have brought Turkey today. Today, of course, the issue of trust in the judiciary must be focused as we look at this painting. Of course, the most important thing in a country is judgment. A country is the foundation of justice. It's the state. For the state to stay, the judiciary has to be strong, it has to work, it has to be fair, and everyone has to be able to give in to that judgment in peace. Today, unfortunately, in Turkey, confidence in the judiciary has dropped rapidly, and hopefully, it is important for our state to be removed from the environment of insecurities that will now be brought to justice by judicial reforms. Now, running a trial is a very important problem. The fact that there are 50,000 of these terror prisoners today is indeed... 50,000 of the total number of people, convicts, prisoners in the prisons are under arrest for terror crimes. It is imperative that their situation be quickly cleared, that they be judged fairly, and that they be judged swiftly. Of course, both his practices and his steps must be taken to strengthen his sense of justice in this regard. Now, who are these 50,000 people, especially according to what we've learned, about 40,000 of them are members of the terrorist organization; some of them are public officials at the lower level, teachers, police, nurses and so on in other public institutions. When we look at these allegations of imprisonment... here is a list of 185,000 people who have recently appeared in public. This 185,000-person bylock list is always on the lower side, so where are those who appoint them, their undersecretary, their chief of staff, their top bureaucracy and their political foot? As long as we don't get here, these trials will be removed from our conscience, from the right of the public conscience, the right state's struggle, legitimacy will be debatable. In this regard, immediate measures must be taken, and it must be taken to the top of this matter by the National Intelligence Service, by solving the communication systems used by Lock and Fetullahist terrorist groups and other terrorist organizations, quickly and better. Gene, of course, more than 100,000 civil servants were discharged. In this regard, the victims are knocking on everyone's door every day, meaning that more than 15,000 people have arrived at the door of the National Movement Party. As the National Movement Party, we continue our work on re-researching their situation. But, of course, there's a much-spoken extradition decree on the agenda. What is the scope of this extradition decree, who will be extradited, what will be the criteria, when will this extradition be made? Of course, people shouldn't be playing with their emotions during such a difficult time. We need to set the criteria for this and quickly do the necessary work and return those who will be returned immediately. And of course, there's a need for judicial and administrative investigations to be done here in a manner that is convincing, fair, and satisfying so that we don't face any new challenges here tomorrow. We don't want to get caught up in what we're doing because as you know, there are many international contracts signed by Turkey, the Court of Human Rights of the European Union. It is necessary to treat both prisoners and those who have been exposed today in accordance with the law, in accordance with the rights of those who have been expelled. Of course, it's important to know that there's a lot of numbers in prisons, but you should also know that Turkey has signed a lot of international contracts, especially in terms of prison practices, and that it has involved a significant portion of its extensions in internal law. In this sense, our prisons are controlled by the United Nations Committee for the Protection of Torture, and again controlled by the United Nations Committee for the Protection of Torture, Torture, and Demeanor. There are also contracts that we are part of according to the European Union's legislation, and international control is made by them in prisons in our country. In accordance with those international contracts that we signed, the regulations are also made in our internal law, followed by the criminal execution institutions, the General Directorate of Criminal and Economies officials, the state prosecutors in charge of the republic, the Attorney General's Office for the prison, the Justice Department, and the Commission for the Human Rights Review of the Turkish Parliament. Again -4681 -- it's being watched by the Criminal Execution Institutions and the Watch Boards of Prisons. Again, according to the City Administration Act, our governorships have the authority to investigate and oversee these prisons. Thus, there are rules in Turkey that all complaints will be assessed in our internal law. Both the Prime Minister's Office of Human Rights and our attorney general's office are reviewing all complaints. The fact that terror criminals in Turkey are considered political criminals is not something we can accept as the National Movement Party. I salute your grand delegation with the desire to live in a country with a growing confidence in the judiciary.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0046par0410	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Gamze Akkuş Ilgezdi, İstanbul MP... Here you are, Mr. Whitebird Illustration.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0047par0414	Mr. President, I've been promised the rights violations of the prisons. I salute the High Council. Yesterday was the 1st year of the Ankara attack. I honor our lost lives, I ask God's mercy, I want them to know that we are in the presence of their grieving families and that we are followers of their cause. And it's March 14th, Medical Day. As a physician myself, I celebrate the Medical Day of all health workers. Sadly, I regret that my colleagues in this area who have devoted their lives to human life cannot live in a holiday mood. Because in the process of losing the doctor's dignity and the patient's loss of rights, I wish that the next days would be a good day for all physicians, health workers, as well as for patient rights. I'd like to talk now about prisons that have become almost a bleeding wound to Turkey. At the beginning of my speech, I'd like to share with you a very dramatic data. The number of prisoners, which have watched around 50,000 years throughout the Republic's history, has reached 230,000 today, making a quick and stable climb since the beginning of 2006. According to the latest study, Turkey is among the countries with the largest population of prisoners in the world and in Europe it is very painful that it is ranked second after Russia. When we compare the total population in the country with the imprisoned population, we see that 238 prisoners and convicts fell to 100,000 people in Turkey. In this category, Turkey is the sixth in Europe. It looks like we're going to have a new record after July 15th with a growing prison population. Thus, the confederate prisons have been doubled by their worsening conditions. Today, we know that the prisons in Turkey contain more than their capacity, prisoners. Today, prisons have a 103 percent hailing rate. On the other hand, the evidence shared by the European Court of Human Rights on prison rights violations reveals that the violations of rights in Turkey's prisons were terrible. Again, many letters from prisons are coming to us, including the State of Emergency, that violence and violations are increasing. Many rights violations, such as torture, isolation, naked search, abuse, rape, deportation to remote prisons, are often raised. The Assembly must do a more comprehensive work on all the problems with prisons that burn families outside the prison. Sadly, we live in a country where saying a couple words means doing a story, multiplying your share, being thrown into solitary cells. Mr. Minister, those who are in prisons are entrusted to our state. Although he said, right violations in prisons are not interrupted by torture or death. Another bleeding wound in recent years is the rule of the penal system in prisons. It is a fact that today prisons are used as a means of intimidation or self-reportation. Your power, which says that you criticised September 12th, March 12th coups as we do, allows today, with its practices in prison, the dignity of humanity to fall underfoot. In one prisoner's letter, he says: "We have petitioned many times to go to the infirmary over our various ailments, but we have not been able to respond to any of them. The administration thinks we should die so we can see the doctor's face. Dear Regents, health is man's most basic right to live. It should be known that the prisoner has equal health rights to a free person. Being in prison isn't dying in prison. Look, according to recent research, 549 inmates get one psychologist, 986 inmates get one social worker. I'm just saying it wouldn't be right not to see or know that there are prisoners suffering from psychological and physical violence with arbitrary practices. Another problem: ring vehicles. I've mentioned this in my last conversations, and I've called the Minister twice, and I've told him about it, that prisoners call their ring vehicles a living coffin. Unfortunately, the Minister of Justice prefers to continue to ignore the ongoing problems in this regard. Again, I repeat, for the third time, I want the Minister of Justice to hear the prisoners' voices: One in the heat of July, one in the cold of February, from Silivri to Anatolia Courthouse, with these ring tools, in the conditions of the same prisoners, let's see if we travel in handcuffs, in the same density, see if we're cold, if we're able to match, see if we're able to catch our breath, see if we're able to get a good service. Again, are you in, Mr. Secretary? I wish the rights violations in prisons would end with this. The naked search at the prison entrance and practices in the women's wards, called deep searching and deep searching, are demeaning methods of human honor. Again, the ban on letters and phone bans, newspapers and books, that's what counts. Look, you want pens, forbidden; dry paint, pastel dye; no colors except black-blue colors; no hanging pictures of Pir Sultan, Ali İsmail (a picture of Ali) on the wall; you will read the newspaper; you will watch the Republic, One day, Universal; you will watch TV; you will not be allowed to laugh; you will not be able to watch humor magazines like Penguin, Sleepless; you are condemned, nor are you allowed to laugh! Is it over? No. You're going to see your lawyer, they're locking you in a glass fan, no right to defend you. He's not allowed to talk to other prisoners anyway. You're being banished to a remote prison, your poor low-income families can't come, so no sightings. We want these kind of isolation methods to be quickly abandoned. Let's get to the SEGBIS system. This is an application in the form of a conference for those who can't be brought to court due to distance, but does not lead to a fair trial system. Therefore, we demand that this be removed, because it creates irreparable consequences for the judge and for the accused. Dear Regents, where we come from, we all know our country has turned 21 prison types into a prison paradise. We'll probably fill it all up from A, B, to Z, but we still can't fit people into these prisons. Look, according to Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ, 2,300 people have died in prisons in the last six years. Now, statistically speaking, I would like to share with you one inmate every 24 hours in prison where 277 prisoners died in the first nine months of 2016 alone. In the days of the State of Emergency, the situation became even more dire. I just want to give you an example of the hundreds of letters I received: I wrote to you from Amassian Prison, and now we're in another prison. Yes, we've been banished once again. Since it's a new place, I wanted to give you the new address and share the new situation with you. December 28th; this morning they came and told me. As far as they're concerned, we'll be banished. Then an uncertain journey began. You know, they keep it hidden, they don't tell you where to take it, then they tell you. We arrived eight, nine hours later at Elazýg T Type. It was dark in the evening. Amasya was brought here by about 20 people. For hours, the transactions, the looting, many of them considered organized and confiscated. Confiscated what? A picture of a kid the size of a head shot. It's not over, and I cut this kid's picture out of the "Value" magazine that the Department of Justice took out and was distributed to us for free. Now that you're here, you do the math. Can you imagine, Congressmans, that the Justice Department has confiscated a photo of a boy in a magazine that they're handing out as an organizational photograph of him and the photograph he's allowing in Amasya Prison? Dear lawmakers, I would like to end my words again with the words of a prisoner: justice is the most flammable demand for anyone who defines himself as a human being. Wanting justice, striving for justice is a matter of conscience, says the prisoner. So, at the point where we're here today, I think you should be concerned, too, because that justice will one day be needed for everyone. When the prisons today become a human grinding machine are completely out of control, the consequences will be disastrous for all of us. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0048par0432	Thank you, Mr. Whitebird Illustration. Fatma Benli, İstanbul MP against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Benli.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0049par0436	Thank you, Mr. President. On this occasion, I salute our Veteran Assembly. I also celebrate the March 14th Medical Day of our valued health workers, who have worked day and night with great sacrifice for our health. Now, I have made a commitment to the group's proposal to determine the rights violations of HDP's rights to political prisoners and prisoners throughout Turkey, to open detention institutions and detention facilities into the supervision of civilian and independent delegations. First of all, I have to say that I care very much about the rights of the prisoners who remain in prison on the council bench, about the prisoners who remain in prison. Because whether we're in the usual era or in a state of emergency, it doesn't matter at all, in prison, torture or abuse or cruel treatment is never, ever, ever acceptable. These are not things that can be stretched according to the situation we are in, which can be used differently at different times. Our basic principle is to have the honor of being human for everyone. We have to do it for the people in prison, and we have to give it to everyone in Turkey. It is not acceptable for a person to be in a criminal execution institution to be punished as an additional punishment. That's our basic principle. Zero tolerance against torture is already a subject that the EC PARTY repeatedly repeats. It is not for us to separate prisoners of prisoners, prisoners, or jurisprudence who remain in prison as political prisoners or non-political prisoners. There's a distinction that only those convicted of the Anti-Terror Code will be separated as terror criminals and others as criminal criminals, but both criminals, terrorist criminals, and criminal offenders have the same rights. The court's additional measures related to the crimes committed by those sentenced to aggravated life sentences are an exception. We don't really have the concept of political prisoners, the most important distinction between terrorist criminals and criminal criminals is that one stays in secure prisons, the other stays in high-security prisons, and the other group stays in high-security prisons. It is also a matter of the high-security prisons in Turkey that have been required for Turkey to continue the bombings of Turkey in Kandil (Kandil) following the escape of six senior Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) officials from Diyarbakır Prison, who had previously escaped from Bingol Prison in March 2016 and had escaped from Diyarbakır Prison. However, the rules of prisons are the same for Turkey, as they are all over the world, and there is no way that we can alter any prisoner's rights while we amend another prisoner's rights, separate the two of them according to the type of crime, because there is no way that we can separate them because of their language, religion, nature, or sex or sex, no matter what reason they're in prison execution institutions when they're imprisoned. The important thing is that everyone in the penal institution can serve their time without being subjected to abuse or torture. The EC PARTY has made many legal arrangements for this, many applications have been made. However, if these practices do not take place in the way the laws should, there are already control mechanisms if there are arbitrary practices, rights violations stemming from management or administration. Therefore, we do not have a prison that should be under civilian and independent delegation control because the prisons are already supervised by many independent delegations, which is already open to the Ministry of Justice. Republican prosecutors will have to open criminal cases if there are cases that require such a crime if there is a crime, considering the appeals already made to them and considering the criminal complaint, which is under their obligation. Other than that, prisons are not only monitored by the Justice Department, they are not supervised; under the Parliamentary Commission for Human Rights Review is the Subcommittee and Obligated Rights Subcommittee, which has been ongoing since 1990. This commission consists of members of all parties, which performs the necessary inspections for the rights of prisoners who remain in prison, both in prison and in their prison audits. Of course, that may not be enough. For this, separate control mechanisms have already been created outside of routine inspections. There are prison monitoring boards in the Ministry of Justice, which are selected from different professions by lawyers, doctors, engineers, even one member as a woman, and they have to oversee prison monitoring boards. If we do not trust institutions in Turkey, Turkey is already open to international control. The CPT (EC) -- the Council of Europe -- has the authority to oversee the prisons without warning from the Committee for the Protection of Torture and Bad Responsibility. In the same way, the United Nations is also being audited by the Commission for Anti-Responsive Obstruction with Enjoyive Applications and Torture. Other than that, the Ministry of Justice has opened a new unit to listen specifically to applications made, taking applications related to it, overseeing cases, reviewing cases, already doing investigations if it finds a criminal element. As a matter of fact, in just six months, the Department of Justice processed 351 of his staff. At this point, I agree that further audits should be increased, so as the Parliamentary Human Rights Review Commission, we are taking into account both resen applications, reviewing the allegations made by newspapers or human rights organizations, and considering the written applications made to us. If there is a criminal charge, if there are financial cases related to the crime, we press charges against the state's attorney's office; if there are no allegations, rather, if there are no concrete statements about it, we ask the Ministry of Justice for information. After all, we have to fulfill our obligations to torture with zero tolerance if we want to. Since time is short, I just want to point out a few things. One hundred percent is true of any claim that exists in our prisons. It is a hundred percent wrong of us to accept it in the form of a prison or to admit it in the form of a prison. Prison officials never, never abuse, never torture. There is no denying it. We have an obligation to consider any procedure, to investigate it. However, it is not possible for us to allow a state of emergency to prevent people from being transported to the hospital due to the state of emergency because of the fact that we are in the same ward with terror criminals and judicial offenders, putting cameras in private areas, or because of the State of Emergency. It's just that in an extraordinary situation... the allegations are already being investigated, the allegations are already available to relevant units to conduct the necessary examination, but in some cases we have to accept that people make different interpretations. After all, it is true that in prisons, Turkey has a high proportion of fillings in prisons. There are 80,000 prisoners in Turkey. However, before the treasonous coup attempt was launched, the number of prisoners in Turkey was below the European Union standards before this Parliament itself was bombed on July 15th. As a result, the detention has passed the necessary legal arrangements to make the trial an exception in this parliament, the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0050par0448	That's what we're asking.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0051par0449	What's the other prisoners' fault? What's the other prisoners' fault?
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0049par0450	However, regulations are being made to ensure that the increase in the number of prisoners committed after a coup attempt against people by tanks and by people, by using the rights of other prisoners, without being subjected to torture and abuse, to serve their sentences within the penal institution. However, if they're not enough, it's possible that we can all fight together, and we can increase the control mechanisms for this. If we don't find the work done on these things to be very adequate, there may be a further increase in the duties of the Prisoner and Criminal Rights Subcommittee under the Prison Watch Board and Human Rights Review Commission, as a result, its own subcommittee of the Commission, which is constantly under way, and all parties support it. So far, he's been doing a lot of prison inspections to reveal his work on it. At this point, I salute the Supreme Assembly with respect to the matter of the motion, which I believe should not be set up a new commission, since there is already an Inmate and Criminal Rights Subcommittee in parliament.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0052par0453	Thank you, Mr. Benli.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0053par0454	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0052par0455	Mr. Steel...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0053par0456	Mr. President, the orator has talked a lot about the distinction of political and terrorism on our particular proposal, and has had a situation where there is no such distinction and that we are making a misleading, deceptive statement. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to explain.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0052par0457	Here you go, under Article 69, I give you my word for two minutes.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0053par0460	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I think with a question, we should really clarify this. I'm going to ask Mr. Benli to explain to this bench which wards are in Seoul Demirtaş, Figen Yüksekdağ and our current arrested MPs, our co-mayors and executive friends in prison. If we can't make a political distinction, if we can't make a political and judicial distinction, then the public will be able to figure out which status our presidents and lawmakers were first evaluated at, at which point. That's one. Second: If you hadn't entered the prison subcommittee, you should have never entered the Human Rights Commission, because let's open up how much the prison subcommittee and the Human Rights Commission are concerned about the issues we're talking about here today, how much they've been concerned about, let's present all the work that's been done here so far to the attention of both lawmakers and the public, and let's get it out in the open. Another thing I think should be explained here. The latest, national or international, which institution, which delegation has been able to visit prisons, let's explain this, or let's explain who has been prevented from entering the prison, including Turkey's Rapporteur Kati Piri. And finally, if we really want to face the facts, yes, let's decide whether the CPS report or the report of the board of prevention of torture, the report of the United Nations, the report of the Venice Commission, let's all discuss it here, and then let's all decide together. My respects.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0054par0467	Thank you, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0055par0468	Mr. President, I want word on 60.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0054par0469	Here, I'll open your microphone for 60.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0055par0472	Thank you, Mr. President. After all, I didn't make the definition of a terrorist criminal, or a misdemeanor, a definition in the Anti-Terror Code, which is part of the law.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0056par0474	That's right.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0055par0475	The second is to insult the work of the Human Rights Review Commission so far -- in fact, there is no -- that exists within that Commission...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0056par0476	Individual, Fatma Hanim, individual.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0055par0477	It would be to prosecute all lawmakers' procedures.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0056par0478	I keep the Commissioner of Human Rights separate; individual; individual and inadequate work.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0055par0479	So far, the charges filed by the Human Rights Review Commission regarding the prisons are very clear, and they are documented in writing, in order to further increase the rights of prisoners in this regard, in order for the administration not to be complacent.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0056par0480	I know, I'm not suggesting otherwise.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0055par0481	To ignore all the procedures at this point, as if we are insensitive to human rights, we don't take into account human rights when it comes to other people.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0057par0483	Thank you, Mr. Benli.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0056par0484	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0055par0485	Add one last sentence, one sentence...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0057par0486	Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone, complete it.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0055par0487	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I won't repeat the other issue, but the CPT has already arrived in October 2016, overseeing prisons in Turkey, interviewing nearly 1,000 prisoners and convicts. In no way is it possible for Turkey to be put into custody of prisons in any way, but again, I would like to stress that the Human Rights Review Commission has filed criminal charges concerning the rights of the prisoners in prison, their negotiations with the Ministry of Justice so far are very clear and clear. There is no way for any of us to separate the prisoners inside as political or terrorist criminals or criminal criminals. At first, we are the ones who say zero tolerance against torture, and if we make mistakes, we are the ones who have to fix it, and we are the ones who strive for it. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0058par0490	Thank you, Mr. Benli.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0059par0491	Mayor, if you want, you can promise...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0058par0492	Here you go, Mr. Steel, and I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0059par0494	Thank you. I would like to say to Mr. Hatibe that, in fact, to all lawmakers, I put aside individual efforts, and it's not that we don't accept that, but we're talking about something so important that individual efforts are insufficient. If the prison subcommittee doesn't work, it goes through the Commissioner for Human Rights. I'm saying that even though we've told the Commissioner of Human Rights over and over and over again, if there's still no solution, and there's a very arbitrary study, it's still the Chief of Human Rights Commission that needs to get ahead of it on the subcommittee, and I don't need to say anything else.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit01spe0058par0496	Thank you, Mr. Steel. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm gonna take a 15-minute break from the merger, and I'm gonna invite the group presidents into my office.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0058par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 81st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday/3/2017 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The agenda includes 458, 462, 466, 452, 420, 423, 424, 436, 444, 445, 449, 449, 453, 454 and 4555 in the "Other Jobs From the Commissions" section of the agenda, including 1, 10, 28, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 113, 116, and 116 in the order of the Law and 455 rows. The drafts 466 and 469 are considered by Article 91 of the Civil Code as the main law, and its sections are as follows: It's recommended. Turkey's Space Agency Charter on Building and Organising Space Actions [[1/823]] I'll give my word to lawmakers who have requested a statement on the Justice and Development Party proposal. On the proposal, in favour of the first speaker, Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP. Here you are, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0060par0021	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a pledge in favor of our group proposal. With our group proposal, we move the 458 international contract to the 1st place on the agenda. Again, we will continue to discuss contracts agreed by the group's representatives in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We also move the Bill of the Law to the 28th place on the agenda for the creation of Space Agency 466 rows -- all 36 articles, two parts -- to the 28th place on the agenda. We're also taking the Bill of Law to the 29th place on the agenda, and if this week's work schedule -- if our group proposal is accepted -- on Thursday, hopefully, we'll be able to complete it. The group welcomes our proposal to the discretion of the General Assembly, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0061par0029	Thank you, Mr. Can. Mahmut Toğrul, Gaziantep MP against the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group... Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0062par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, we clearly see that the AKP Group President changes the parliament's agenda every day, puts a draft forward every day, then brings up international contracts again, so there's uncertainty. At a time when we're entering the referendum sathmail, when you're looking at the Parliament right now, the total opposition is probably a 40-strong MP, including power, and the ranks of opposition seem to be more intense, more frequent than the order of the AKP. Dear friends, the AKP, in fact, has been particularly busy with the Parliament lately, but the whole country's focus is on the idea of keeping Parliament busy here, as it turns out, while the 12 September military junta constitution, which represents a regime change in our view, is towards a single-personed referendum. Dear friends, in such circumstances, it is possible to make neither quality materials nor quality laws. Again, can't the AKP Group Chairman just run the Assembly? To be honest, the AKP government can't run the country either. Clearly, when we look at the problems we've had with the countries of the European Union recently, we will all live together to see how attention or actions have affected the country negatively. It is not acceptable for us in terms of democratic rules, principles and freedom of expression that referendum studies are blocked by administrative and legal initiatives to continue from various countries of Europe. But, dear friends, I remind you, there is a clause in our current election law. It is also a provision brought by AKP power in 2008, and according to this, there can be no referendums or election studies in abroad and the embassies. Those who brought this bill in 2008 and those who are in power today are the same. So, why did they bring it back then? Because they brought it in to block the opposition at that time. Across the country, the propaganda work of the AKP was conducted through the congregation where they were friends at the time, where they were living lamb wraps, and in 2008 they brought something like this to prevent opposition. It's not true, we think everyone should reach out to your audition and tell you why you said yes, but there's something like this. And earlier, when Mr. Kilicdaroglu, CHP President went to Europe, where he was blocked, at that time the government said, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, you humiliate the country at European gates. Again, when Rauf Denktaş wanted to hold a rally here at the time regarding the elections in Cyprus, he said, "Go do the rally in Cyprus." Now, dear friends, I have said that we are not a party for freedom of expression, that we are not, that we are not, but that a state that says this should also defend these democratic principles, principles and freedom of expression in its own home. Look, we haven't forgotten, in the period of July 2015-December 2016, during the destruction of the city in this country, the ministers of this country themselves were unable to enter the counties and were prevented by military and police forces. And again, we know that it's not unknown that today the AKP will act as if it were going to a one-way referendum and close all the fields to people who say no. It's like if they could do it with one option -- those who say yes -- and we remove the option, no one can say no. In fact, that's what they really want -- look, there's a clear referendum going on today through the power of the state, through the governors, through the subcommittees, through a referendum, a reference is being carried out. All areas are closed for those who say no. We all live together in a time when it's almost like death to go out on the street. Today, we are faced with a political power that drives the co-captains of a opposition political party into law enforcement again. What freedom of expression is mentioned? What crime did our HDP MPs, group MPs, co-Chairs commit today? Are they known to commit any crimes other than expressing their thoughts? No, they expressed their own opinion and opposed the policies of the AKP government. Now, you will turn law into an instrument of law, judgment into a tool, and pawn it with law enforcement, and you will tell Europe that it does not comply with democratic rules, and you will teach Europe a lesson in democracy. Dear friends, anyone with a glass house, please stop throwing stones at someone else. In this country, has the European Union's Human Rights Commissioner been able to enter Cizre during the destruction of Cizre? Did he get into Cizre? Currently, representatives from different countries of the European Union wanted to visit our co-Chairs, our deputies; which one did you allow? It's not right to shut down all the fields and play democracy after that, and frankly, we've all seen what happens after that when someone is given an answer that starts in this administration. Today, if you can afford it, if you just don't want to take advantage of it, then raise your voice to Israel. He turned down the voice of the tyrant, can you say anything? You can't tell. In fact, we also know that this fight was forced on you. It's obvious, how did the Minister explain it? Just after Ankara Gar Square, our votes rose. Those who say "Yes" are now clearly saying: "The future of this country has increased by 2%." There is never an acceptable part of being sacrificed to a referendum with short-term policies. Dear friends, you have submitted yourselves to Israel, you have said, you Israel... you said, you said, you said, you obeyed. Our compatriots are gone, they're dead, they're dead. When the Russian plane was shot down, I dropped it. You entered the race, you pursued all of this country's energy resources to Russia, just to bring it back to a positive spot. And now this approach in democratic principles and foreign policy, which is unprincipled, not in line with diplomatic rules, is never acceptable. Tomorrow, the children of this country will pay the price, and it must never be allowed. This country can't be ruled, we all see it together. Tomorrow's the economic crisis... this country is already going through an economic collapse, and with these short-term policies, we're going back to the days when you're going to black out the future and bring it down even more. For him, a referendum is being held in this country, so please prepare the conditions equally. Those who say yes and those who say no should share their thoughts openly with the public. Let the public listen to us and decide what's right for him. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But you block all democratic roads, and then you throw stones at Europe -- you have a house of glass -- and we don't find it acceptable. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0063par0049	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. In favor of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, Erhan Usta, Samsun MP. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0064par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. In my initial short speech, I celebrated the March 14th Day of Medicine. Congratulations to our physicians, our midwifes, our nurses, all the health workers. They work in a truly selfless way, perform a sacred profession, but, of course, they face serious problems. These problems need to be resolved as soon as possible. Absence rights, working conditions, problems related to education remain on the agenda as problems that are expected to be resolved, but unfortunately, the Justice and Development Party government and the Parliamentary Group have been running the Assembly for three or four weeks instead of solving these problems, and Parliament is not working very efficiently. It's not possible to express that you've been working very efficiently before, but there's no way we can accept the situation in particular these last three or four weeks. I'll have my evaluations on that in a moment. Now, of course, there's a medical staff that can't be appointed by health. So we've trained at certain levels, at high school, at the university level, at the faculty level, but we've never been able to get them to work in any way in public or in private. How many? 350,000 people. 350,000 young people trained but can't get a job. Here, of course, is a problem where the economy doesn't grow big enough, the wrongs in public employment policy are a problem, but on the other hand, there's a serious organizational disorder. In fact, it's not just in health, it's in other areas. I mean, there's no plan in training, no plan at all. A country that makes so many mistakes. We call it our youth is our greatest asset. It's unthinkable for a country to waste its young population so easily, unfortunately Turkey is experiencing them. That's why Turkey is trapped in a mid-income trap, and there's no way it can get out of this trap. As he didn't survive, we see a Turkey that was down from the income level to the $8,000 per person he caught in 2008, which is at the nominal level, which is a lot more regression when we turn it into a reale. Here, it's based on a lot of organizational disorders, as well as mistakes in education employment planning, or rather not planning. Again, the other thing about non-planning is that a KHK came out in February, KHK No. 687. With this KHK, the decision to shut down study centers came to pass, and suddenly, everyone was shocked. I don't know where it came from. It's not clear what kind of work was made of this decision. We're issuing a decree on the immediate closure of previously encouraged educational centres, 2,000 institutions affected, about 40,000 employees. It's not a decision to shut down 500 thousand students and guardians in an instant. People have opened these institutions, parents have placed their children here according to this. You will immediately shut down these institutions without any planning. You will become a school or a school. Will the municipalities be able to provide this much service at once? It's never gonna happen. If this is not a need, why was it encouraged at first, so allowed? Why do we have to close now if we need to? There's no reason, there's nothing to tell the community. Here's an unplanned example, a lack of programming. So, right here, speaking of which, this decision regarding study centers needs to be reviewed. If it's worked well, if they really need to be shut down, which we don't agree with, but if there's such a necessity, it needs to be told well to society, and there needs to be a transition process here. Suddenly, I opened it like this and closed it. There is no way that an application shaped like this could be accepted. The municipalities don't have that capacity, and they don't have that capacity fast. Thus, these services will not be provided; children, families will be victims. Especially in these study centers... what are we complaining about? We're complaining that women's participation in the labor force is low. But it was a serious opportunity for women to work. They take their children to school, they take them to school, they study them. Thus, there was actually an environment for mothers to work in. Now, without thinking about any of this, you're going to say, let's increase women's employment, let's close down an institution, an institution that is the most important infrastructure for this. If there's a problem, we have to check them out. We can't do everything by government hands. It's supposed to be well controlled, but it's going to hurt people, companies, by making decisions like this, without making any kind of inspection, because there's a lot of investments here, money spent -- you have to avoid that kind of behavior. This is an application that is incompatible with a predictable public administration, and I've just given two examples. Is the inescapable only in public administration, or in decisions made by the Justice and Development Party alone? No, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's the Clave. Congress opened at three o'clock today, didn't know what to expect until quarter to three. What kind of Turkish Grand National Assembly would that be? What kind of Parliament is that? Where in the world is such a Parliament? We're dealing with a Parliament that doesn't know what to expect until we're 15 minutes away. What this means is that we don't need you anyway, and you're already in the form of formality. Is that what that means? What's that supposed to mean? Could the development, progress of a non-functioning country be possible for democratic governance? This is all very wrong. Anyway, it opened and we learned at quarter to three that international agreements will be discussed. Is there a law on the agenda? There are two laws, let's see which of these two laws will be discussed tomorrow, his decision has not yet been made. A Parliament entirely driven by the government is not acceptable. Of course, the government must coordinate. In any way, however, the AKP group in Parliament has no idea of the government's proposal. In no way does the opposition have a say in that sense. It wouldn't happen, my friends, in such uncertainties... then why isn't this country growing up, why are we in historical proportions at unemployment rates... I mean, the AKP is breaking its own record in unemployment rates. Here's all of this, in this kind of uncertain environment, there's no investment, there's no business, and there's nothing going right at work. And it goes against the courtesy of the job here, so the opposition is actually trying to solve some issues in a very serious coordinated, understanding, but here, perhaps a little bit, of course, representatives of the Justice and Development Party, and they're coming out of desperation... So we're actually stalling the House in a way that we don't know what it is. This is all wrong, friends. I said that last time. If the government can't come with an offer of law, there's a whole world of law proposals as the National Movement Party, all waiting to get in line on the agenda of Congress. Society has problems waiting, agriculture has problems, employees have problems, industry has serious problems; everyone has many problems. It is very wrong to keep this House empty while our proposals to resolve these problems are waiting, to stall this House with international agreements that are not clear how essential it is. The government must give up this attitude at once. For example, this Space Agency Agency is now on the agenda, and it's not clear whether it will be discussed tomorrow, but one of the two draft laws will be discussed. In 2001, the work of this Space Agency was launched during the 57th Government, when the National Movement Party was also a coalition partner. In 2002, TÜBITAK was appointed to continue these studies. Look, 2001-2017, there's a bill coming in 16 years from now, and that's not gonna happen. It's an important issue, though, something that needs to be done. I'm guessing there's no doubt about any political parties here, but why are such important matters kept waiting for 15 or 16 years? Who's responsible for this? So, we need to move things a little bit more focused on the issues of the country, or otherwise, without such a plan, without a program, without any predictability, there's no way to run things. The uncertainty is the worst thing, and we need our citizens, our citizens and the investors of the foreign capital sector, to know what to do -- what the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- is going to do in public administration -- we need to be able to predict -- we need to be able to predict what we're going to do; there will be no investment in this country as long as they can't predict it. In this framework, I respectfully salute the General Assembly with a more predictable, more planned public administration wish. Thank you all very much.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0065par0064	Thank you, Mr. Master. Engin Altay, İstanbul MP against the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0066par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. I've been promised the Justice and Development Party's group proposal to determine the Parliament's working order and schedule. Before I begin, I'd like to express my satisfaction that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has returned to the health of the President of the Parliament and has resumed its work at Parliament. On this occasion, I wish him a healthy, long, happy birthday. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I'd like to make a brief mention of this inconvenience, which has just been pointed out by the member of the group. Now, we've been interviewing international agreements in Congress for two weeks, three weeks. Some international agreements have to be ratified in Parliament, some of our accumulated past governments and the current government, and we contribute to ratifying these agreements in a national perspective, and we share our views and opinions with the General Assembly on the deals that we find objectionable, as well as the deals we find questionable. Now, there's a bill of law on the establishment of Space Agency 466 rows and the establishment of space-directional activities in the middle, and there's a bill on the establishment of High Technologies Research Center 469 rows and the establishment of the Science, Technology and Industrial Executive Board, and before that, we're going to discuss some international agreements. It is possible that the Parliament will interrupt its work on Thursday as part of the referendum on April 16th. My colleague has also told me that we, as lawmakers, do not find it right for the executive body to set the agenda of the House so arbitraryly. As of now, the ruling party's executives don't know whether we're meeting this week or 466, so they don't know which one we're meeting. I'd like to say in advance that maybe there'll be a little bit of light for the ruling party: space agency number 466, and we're looking ahead of the bill on how to organize space-directional activities, within the Commission and as of now. There's a gap; we'll say our reviews when the bill comes, but there's really a need for the establishment of an agency where Turkey is very, very late. We believe this was brought to the General Assembly before it was very mature, with the Research Center of High Technologies, 469 rows. It is possible to predict that the opposition has more to say here, and that the possibility of ending this week is less likely if the bill for the High Tech Research Centre comes to the General Assembly, as Mr. Deputy Director of the National Movement Party has expressed, as our friends have said. The majority party of appreciation, but the fact that the Turkish Grand National Assembly's agenda is so uncertain, is a desecration of the Turkish Parliament and lawmakers. Now, members of lawmakers, I would like to take this opportunity to address one or two more issues. Today we received two very bad news from Istanbul. One of them is that there are physical and actual interventions in a region known as Eminönuna, in a region in the limits of the Fatih Municipality, in which our party members want to preach no. After the development of Germany and the Netherlands, after considering it as an insult to the Turkish nation, the Republic of Turkey, and after the ruling party had sunk the needle in itself, we had hoped that it would sink it into those who had been aggressive with Turkey. We thought that those who campaigned for Turkey would do their campaigns in a bit more comfortable, free of charge. But, where we're coming from, I wish there was a minister on the General Assembly, and I can't see it here, but the ministers have television in their offices, and I hope they're watching us. Now, do you agree with the lawmakers to stop propaganda work by not parking our vehicle in Eminönu, the city of Fatih? Is this Holland? Is this Germany? This is for sure. Brother, do you accept this situation?
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0067par0077	No, it didn't.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0066par0078	Is that fair or moral? Is that even possible?
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0067par0079	It wouldn't have happened.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0066par0080	It's done. There's more to it than that, lawmakers, there's more to it: I'm calling on government, government officials, the governor of Istanbul, the governor of Istanbul, the governor of the state, and the police commissioner of the state. Of course, the government will move them and manage them, but the Governor of Istanbul and the Chief of Police are officers of the state. The more tolerant they are of their propaganda, the more tolerant they must be of their propaganda. Anyone who does the opposite has done the wrong thing. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I don't want to get my mouth dirty in here, and I don't want to get my mouth dirty. Mr. President, sometimes it's enough, it's enough, it's enough, and I'll keep my mouth shut. There's more to it than that. Mehmet Tofik Göksu, Mayor of the Works. And I'm speaking to this mayor here: if it comes down to treason, if it comes to brute force, I'll come back to that Mayor in Esens Square, whatever he is, whatever he understands in language, we'll speak in that language. I've never seen such a naughty, naughty man. He's sitting in a police car, watching. Republican People's Party Esenler District Secretary Nazim Free-fledged. Just as we all honor our family minister in the Netherlands, the coup of the Esen County Secretary must be the honor of the AK PARTI lawmakers in this parliament first. This is a punishment in your honor. Speak up, for God's sake. I want an AK PARTY manager to condemn this situation from here. There's no shame in that. Turkey is not a mountain, Istanbul is not a mountain. The mayors of Istanbul have no right to rule more than the king. We're not gonna let that happen. I'm calling on the Home Secretary to do the job, to do the dirty work, to do the dirty work. He's watching. He's watching from the car. Is that even possible? It's immoral. Mr. General Assembly, I now request that an official from the ruling party take a stand based on 60, and share his understanding of this matter with the General Assembly. That's not gonna happen, guys. Look, there's been a concession in the House for weeks. Politics is a matter of kindness and conscience, I always say, but as long as we do so, as long as we don't want to fight, I condemn the fact that some of the leaders of the Justice and Development Party, some of their spokesmen, are about to do almost anything to polarize society, I condemn it, I condemn it, I condemn it. Another shame, another shame, Your Honors, I know your respect for this House where you sit, your heart, your loyalty to the founders of this House, and I know your gratitude, but one of them doesn't know it, your Mayor of Esenyurt doesn't know it. The insult of the mayor of Esenyurt is not to me, but to you, not to me, but to you. In 1923 they struck and built the republic.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0068par0088	He built it with the revolution.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0066par0089	In 1923, this Parliament did what you call,,,,,,,,,. Right now, the majority of this House is members of the party you belong to. This Parliament has determined the decisions of this Assembly, as you call it, the President you prostrated before. Now, what I would like to say is, won't you have anything to say about this immeasurability, this ingratitude, this ingratitude, this shamelessness, and this treachery? Won't a brave man of 316 members of the Justice and Development Party come out and say you have no place at this party? I don't know about you, but our beloved nation won't say yes to this vulgarity. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0069par0093	Thank you, Mr. Altay. I submit to your votes the Justice and Development Party Group, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0070par0095	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0069par0096	Mr. Inecubine, come in, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0070par0099	Mr. President, we're trying to get to the point where the group vice president was just talking about the bench. When we find out the details of the unpleasant event he said, we specifically want to share it with them when we study it. What is the nature of this unpleasant event, what it is not, we're going to talk to the concerned, and we're going to share it from here, but I want to make it very clear that I don't understand the other issue. We don't know the details of what he said to the AK PARTY group. We'll explain these issues when you share them. We have nothing to offer in these matters. If there is a mistake, we especially want to point out that we never stand behind the wrong. Besides, we always say on a day when society needs a union of 79 million, we shouldn't use a quantifying, separative language. Especially in the way that we politicians are completely united... yes, we're going to a referendum.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0069par0102	I'll turn on your mic. Please complete it.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0070par0103	There is, of course, a campaign here, yes, and no, but we never do this: no matter what the outcome, 79 million citizens of the Republic of Turkey will continue these campaigns for unity and unity, but we've never preferred this language when this is being done, we've never preferred this language, we've never preferred these words in the same way as the actions. We, as citizens of the Republic of Turkey, in the desire to live here, we have favoured unity and unity, and we have not used a separatist language, and we have said that we will not use it after that, especially to those who use it, that we remind them of this particular time here, from this bench, from the nation's stand. We've always reminded you to pay attention to that language when you're told from around here. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0069par0105	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0071par0106	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0069par0107	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0071par0108	As a matter of fact, sir, I'd like it to go into the records. I mean, after the speech of Mr. Tüyöz, it's like it's not understood what I'm saying. I asked a very clear question to the majority party, and I said, "This is a coup," said your mayor for October 29, 1923. Will you or will you not keep this mayor at this party? Does the AK PARTY feel the same way, doesn't it, and according to the AK PARTY, October 29, 1923 was a coup, wasn't it? An AK PARTY official needs to explain that. That's my statement. I do, sir.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0069par0110	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Timberson...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0072par0112	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0069par0113	Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0073par0115	I specifically wanted to take a stand on campaigns. Because there is not only one mayor here; at the same time, at least 63 people have been taken into custody in the past fifty-seven days from January 21, 2017 to March 9, 2017. In almost all universities, we say no to the inequal life of people who jog the cake, distribute it, distribute the manifesto, such as the slain Özgecan Aslan, who legitimizes the violence of men. Five women who hang banners have been taken into custody. The tradesman, who said he would vote, was complained by the citizen. The attack was carried out on Umit Özdağ, on Yusuf Halaçoğlu, in the same way, on Mersin Silifke.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0069par0117	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Kerestecioglu. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0073par0119	Ankara Governorate has sent a letter to university rectors, announcing that election propaganda has been banned within the campus. A group of 25 men attacked the KAMU-SEN headquarters, which called, and the confederation building was raided. They're kept in the loop, and they have a lot of things. So, other than, you know, approaching everyone with good intentions, etcetera, etcetera, there's really a need to take precautions. Also, I'd like to ask you, is there anyone who is decent? I'd like to ask you also that there are 13 MPs in this parliament who are also under arrest, and that one of them is Vice President of the Constitutional Commission, Meral Danış Beştaş. What freedom, what democracy, what campaign are we talking about when 13 MPs are under arrest? What constitution vote are we really going to vote on? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] These parties of this House need to answer that, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0074par0124	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Steel, what did you demand?
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0075par0126	Mr. President, I need to present you and the Council with the call from our previous session.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0074par0127	Here you go. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0075par0130	Mr. President, it's very short, but it's a little bit more information that reveals the reality of our conversations. While we're talking about the prisons here, there's only one broadcaster giving the talks here, and this is TRT3 -- and I'd like to give you all the attention that today at Shakran Prison, where the hunger strike continues on the twenty-eightth day, the TRT3 broadcast has been cut off during the talks at this General Assembly, and the phone call from the prison that we received from the families calling us, and at this point, the perspective of all prisons has been revealed a little bit more.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0074par0132	Thank you, Mr. Steel. That's what I'm learning from your explanation. I'll investigate. Something like this should never happen, it's never acceptable. It is everyone's right to have these talks watched by all citizens, while negotiations are being held at the Turkish Grand National Assembly. No one has the right to interfere. I'm going to investigate what you just said. Thank you. Mr. Inuöz, you have a voice request. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0076par0138	We feel the need to make a few statements about what Mr. President just said. For one thing, we always say that the Republic is our common value.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0077par0140	That's what I said.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0076par0141	We said we had no problem with it in any way. This is the common value of this country, the republic, October 29, 1923. We've set goals for this in front of us, and we've always explained that we have never had a problem with the regime as a party and institutionally. Other than that, if there is a subject to be considered, there will surely be an assessment of it, and we want to make it very clear that this is our party's and especially our institutional view of it, and we've always said that we never had anything to do with regime and regime change. In this constitutional amendment, there is no change in the regime, as it was declared on October 29, 1923.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0078par0143	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz. Congressmans, the Council of Counsellors has a proposal. He has a suggestion. As it is known, according to the Civil Code, the postponement of parliamentary work may be in the form of vacation and recess. It is also recommended that the General Assembly do not meet on certain days when there is a place in the application of the Council of Counsellor's decision that I will now read. Because of reconciliation among the groups, the possibility of parliament's other activities, and its compliance with the policy economy, it has been deemed appropriate to implement the proposal. Now, I'm going to read and process the advisory board proposal, and I'm going to put it to your votes: At a meeting of the advisory Council on Tuesday (14/3/2017) on Tuesday (March 21st 2017), it has been deemed appropriate for the Turkish Grand National Assembly to interrupt its work for fifteen days, starting on Tuesday (March 2017); its absence of the General Assembly Tuesdays 5, 6, 11, 12 and 13 April 2017, and Thursdays were approved by the General Assembly. Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. İz Kerestecioğlu Demir Erhan Usta Peoples' Democratic Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Under Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly (2/1180) main no. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, I demand that the General Assembly be taken directly into the agenda. 13/3/2017 I'll give you what you need. Eskişehir MP Utku Çakırözer will speak as the bidder on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Cacharouser.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0079par0175	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to bring up my proposal for the establishment of our Eskişehir university of economics and high-tech law. I salute you all. Our Eskişehir (Eskişehir) is making sure that Turkey is on its way to becoming the science and culture capital, thanks to the University of Anatolia, the University of Osmangazi, and the University of Turkey, which provides education services to all four corners of Turkey. Our Eskişehir is also our province, which is at the level of socioeconomic development of Turkey, which is the seventh degree of socioeconomic development, with its industrial potential. With the change of law that we have proposed today, I propose that the third university, known to all as the student city, is founded in the name of the Eskişehir University of Eskişehir and the University of High Technology, which is now known as the student city. In fact, since 2011, Prime Minister Mr. Erdogan, the current prime minister, followed by Prime Minister of Education, Minister of National Education and MP of our city, Mr. Nabi Avcı, has repeatedly made this promise to our city, but so far no law has been offered. Now this offer is an opportunity for all of us. I expect support from all our MPs, especially our dear Eskişehir MP friends at our ruling party, who will pave the way for our Eskişehir. This is not just me, but the common expectation of our industrialists, entrepreneurs and all the people of Eskişehir who are waiting to employ our young graduates from this school. My dear friends, the creation of free, universal, rational science is as important as the creation of new universities. On this occasion, I would like to remind you once again that the number of academics who were expelled during the State of Emergency declared by the AKP government has exceeded the times of the coup. On September 12, 3,854 teachers were expelled, 120 academics were expelled, while 60,000 teachers and 4,800 academics were discharged after 15 July. These teachers and academics are expected to be extradited to science nests, missions, as soon as possible, to those who are not involved with the State of Emergency coup attempt. My dear friends, speaking of education and science, I'd like to stress something that is deeply upsetting to all of us. On Sunday's YGS test, hundreds of our young people and their families burst into tears in front of the exam halls, where they were not taken by seconds, due to the 15-minute law imposed by the YSM. Here's Dilara Filiz, here's the situation of Mehmet Kara. We've all read and watched. THE loss of our children's labors, our hopes, which hurt all of our consciences, due to this wrong attitude of the OSCE, must be removed immediately. The failure to destroy the dreams of these cubs must be a common demand for all of us with its power and opposition. Let's hear it, please. My dear friends, Turkey's agenda is discussing sanctions to be implemented in response to practices we have never approved for our two ministers in the Netherlands. Yes, let us condemn the Netherlands for not acting in accordance with the freedom of speech, which in all ways is European founding values. As a matter of fact, all political parties, including our party, are condemning it. This has nothing to do with saying yes or no to the Constitution. In the referendum, they will say "no" in the referendum as much as they will say "yes," and they will be offended by the shameful treatment. Such treatments also deserve to be condemned for increasing racism, a great danger of alien hostility, which is already rising in Europe, and for disturbing the peace of our citizens there. But, my dear friends, let's also have a look at ourselves. The world record for journalistic arrests is in our country. 156 journalists have been imprisoned in prison for months without even preparing indictments, not knowing what they are charged with, not knowing when their trial will take place. All they do is write, draw cartoons, criticize. These are all grounds for arrest. Despite the Constitutional Court's rulings, MPs are still on trial. Because of social media messages, hundreds of young people are put in prison. We're going to a referendum that will determine our future under extraordinary circumstances, but people are not allowed to campaign freely on the streets. I, too, once again, condemn, like our member of the group, the assault on our county secretary and the obstruction of our vehicle. Look, it's March 14th Medical Day. In Ankara, the capital city is blocked by the police even by the medics' march.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0080par0185	Mr. Cacharouser, complete.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0079par0186	My dear friends, these people don't ask much of you. We want a freer, fairer, more equal, more democratic, brighter Turkey. We also say no to the administration of the only man who will remove Turkey from our most basic demands. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0080par0189	Thank you, Mr. Cacharouser. Secondly, as an MP on the motion, İstanbul MP Onursal Adil will speak nicely. Here you go, Mr. Nice Name.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0081par0193	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, one year ago on March 13th, I honor the loss of our fellow citizens in the security park massacre. Dear lawmakers have long not been remembered for their scientific work at universities in Turkey. Unfortunately, today, the academics who were first exported to us in Turkey, the robes crushed by the boots, the scientific freedom underfoot, the university campuses printed with knives and clubs. But we would like young people and academics to come to mind when they are called "university" and to walk with confidence and trust in their future. Dear lawmakers, the government that has ruled the country for fifteen years has condemned our young today to unemployment and despair over their future, with its idea of employment policies, polarizing and ignoring young people. Failed education and employment policies affect our young and our women the most. I want to tell you about the reality of numbers beyond the words of the porter. Turkey is ranked 1st among 35 OECD countries at the point of the majority of young people who do not work or read. According to government official statistical institution TÜİK (TİK), one out of four young people in Turkey is unemployed. Women are even worse off. The unemployment between our young women is around 29%. There's also the bill that you paid to enter KPS, a door of hope for our young people, in an environment where unemployment grows exponentially every day. In Turkey today, the child of a laborer working for 1,400 lira minimum wage has to pay $420 to enter KPS. I'd like to ask the trustees of a party called justice: Is this justice worthy of you, the poor, the labourer, and the young? Dear lawmakers, without justice and democracy in a country, there is neither prosperity nor stability in that country. We have a educational system where children born with AKP power are not even aware that they read it today. Patents, AR-Ge, waiting for high-end products, that's probably just imagination, because it's impossible for high-profile products to come out of a place where there's no freedom of thought. So, by ignoring these structural reforms, you can pass any law you want, but as long as you don't guarantee democracy, freedom, law, there will be no more investments and unemployment in this country. With such economic management, our country, once a grain barn, will have to import wheat today. Dear lawmakers are measured by the value a country values for development, education, science, and scientists first. Turkey's educational report card is obvious. In fact, recently, the AKP's government has also admitted that education is one of its weakest links. However, I can't help but say that I wish that you would have listened to our warnings earlier so that today, they would not have been referred to as generations who didn't even know Turkey was reading children. You will export scientists, academics, in one night, unfairly, unlawfully, and then you will speak of development, prosperity, stability here! With all due respect, it's called hypocrisy in literature. Do you, in fact, realize the evil you've done to the future generations of this country, your children, and your children's tomorrows by expelling hundreds of valuable academics? Even if you fit all the names you fear in a KHK, you try to silence all the opponents one by one, they will come out of that referendum chest, no. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has been late for its YGS exam for two days, and a 19-year-old whose year's work has been thrown out in the garbage. He talks about these two sentences that a 19-year-old boy says: "If I come home, I'll catch up, I'll be late from work, I'll be late. A year has gone by, it's not easy, what am I going to do? It wasn't just Mehmet whose work was wasted on the 15 years of AKP power.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0082par0203	Here you go, complete, Mr. Adil. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0081par0204	We haven't forgotten how many thousands of young people you've done well with yesterday, nor have we forgotten how much you've done for them. But rest assured, the hundreds of thousands of young people whose future you have wasted will give you the best answer on April 16th. In addition, I wish that this sad event in the Esen district today would not be repeated, and the leadership of the Justice and Development Party should also condemn the incident and prevent the mayors from taking such actions. I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit02spe0083par0209	Thank you, Mr. Nice Name. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Members of parliament have just expressed a problem with the Burcu Steel TV broadcast. From Mr. Çelik's description, I thought the talks at the Turkish Grand National Assembly could not be reflected by TBMM TV because of a malfunction or a problem, but it seems to be a much more local problem. Mr. Steel actually expressed it, but I think there's been a misunderstanding. The broadcast is untraceable from a prison. This is a situation that needs to be investigated in a more specific way. We're about to move on to international agreements, and a minister representing the government will be here. I believe the minister will have an explanation when we address this question to the minister. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit03spe0083par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 81st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Under the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move on to the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Institute of Islamic Lands Standards and the Institute of Metrology, which are ranked 1st, in accordance with the draft of the Law and the Foreign Commission Report, in accordance with the Agreement Amendment Protocol on the Establishment of Islamic Lands Standards and the Metology Institute in Turkey. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 458 rows. There's no demand for a word on the whole bill on behalf of groups. On behalf of the person, Barış Y friend, the Istanbul MP has a request for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Yfriend. [[Applause from CHP rows]] How fast is this, Mr. Yfriend?
tbmm-2017-03-14sit03spe0084par0015	Let's make good use of time. The AKP has lost a lot of time to Turkey, so let's not lose it. Mr. President, I have made a pledge between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Institute of Islamic Lands Standards and the Institute of Metrology to ratify the Amendment Protocol on the Establishment of Islamic Lands Standards and the Metology Institute in Turkey. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, we regret to see the ruling party destroy our country's reputation in the international arena while making arrangements for the international agreement we will be meeting shortly. The ministers of the Republic of Turkey are being treated in a way that our country does not deserve. While the ministers' planes hang in the air, some ministers are being turned away from the borders. The government is trying to turn this humiliation into an opportunity for how to get three or five more votes before the referendum, and unfortunately our country is paying the price for this wrong and opportunistic policy of power. How? Look, the photo I'm holding isn't much. It was taken a few days ago at the Berlin Tourism Fair. Those who went to this fair knew that in the past, in front of the Berlin Tourism Fair, people used to study Turkey in a crowd, try to get to know Turkey, ask about Belek, Antalya, make reservations, and those who came to this fair in front of the coffee machines would form long lines. Now, let no one come to this tourism fair, especially the Turkish stand, and let the people line up in front of the tea coffee machine. When you say "Turkey," they go away saying, "Thank you, I don't want to." Why is that? The reason for this is the quarrel with the European boatman and the wrong foreign policy. Unfortunately, the AKP is trying to isolate Turkey with its wrong foreign policy and undermine our economy because of its policy for three or five votes. Those who criticise Germany for not being democrats of the Netherlands are not believable in Europe because nearly a thousand times what the Netherlands and Germany have done is being held against the opposition in Turkey, and the opposition is being used against them. As the government monitors its policy, it has been constantly exploiting the public's national feelings and trying to get a vote from here. See, the Speaker writer Yilmaz Ozdil made a very serious claim on a programme he attended at People's TV last night. Yilmaz Ozdil said: The account of the crisis with Europe and its transformation into a victimization was done at the beginning of March, late February. A commercial film was also filmed by outsiders who sat at the time of Turkey's national match as a result of the injustice of a girl with a Turkish flag in a stadium, and thus tried to get the AKP to vote through the sense of victimism. These stories show that the crisis created in an international arena was artificial and planned, and that there was a collection account of votes from here. The power must give Yilmaz Ozdil ▪ an answer to his claim. If this is not answered, it will also be revealed that the crisis created by power in the international arena is planned and calculated and aimed at exploiting Turkish society's national emotions. We look forward to your response to the abuse. Because we know that when you criticize the Netherlands and Germany, you practice the same practices in Turkey, and therefore we don't believe any of the words you put out through democracy. I strongly condemn that the ministers should not be taken to Europe. I strongly condemn the Turkish Foreign Minister's flight to the Netherlands. Everyone's freedom of speech and propaganda must be used to the fullest, but they must remain in the legal framework. Now, why don't we believe you? We don't believe in this: Look, I have a photograph taken in Umraniye. Five minutes later, the banners hung by our citizens who voted no have been dislocated by the AKP Ümraniye Municipality. Friends, as soon as you remove these banners, no one will believe your so-called struggle for democracy in Europe, and neither will the Turkish people. The Mayor of Esenmen in Eslen, with an incredible militant attitude, is attacking the CHP's district secretary. I know the reason for the attack. Because it is known that Kadir Topbaş will have to resign after 16 April because of his claims that he will have to quit his job as mayor of the capital city. Tofiq Göksu also plays from Kadir Topbaş to the empty space, which we know from all the rooms of the AKP. Tofiq Göksu now instructs the dismantling of the Republican People's Party by taking the Constitution under his feet to see if I could take the place of Kadir Topbaş, and ignores the Republican People's Party's vehicle to the region. The Mayor of the Conqueror, we know him from December 17th to 25th, now in great haste he does not allow the Republican People's Party's vehicle to propaganda. Guys, we don't know if that's Holland or Germany. Are you the minister of the Netherlands, the mayor of a province of the Netherlands, Mustafa Demir, Tevfik Göksu, what are you aiming for? If you believe you can raise your vote by starting a fight, by creating a scene, you're wrong. I was in Diyarbakır yesterday. We have seen once again what weather there is in Diyarbakir, and how people look at power, and how these artificial fights, the accounts of creating conflict, never hold up. While the ruling is trying to convince the community of the Constitutional Amendment, we have no problem with the Republic. When you say "Esenyurt," Mayor Necmi Kadıoğlu is the coup d'état of the Republic. It says 650-year-old synths were destroyed by a blow. We have no problem with the Republic. Does it represent the opinion of its party, or does it express its individual opinion? I think it's the individual opinion of Banilli Yıldırım. If it weren't for that, the AKP Mayor of Esenyurt would have raised at least one criticism or a counterpoint from the ruling party's ranks when he attacked the republic. If this republic was founded by a coup, then your party is the power of a coup d'état republic? Then you're a coupger. No one has the right to attack Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his friends in such an immoral and despicable manner. Everyone has to answer in front of the law one day because of those words. It's clear today that you've taken the court into your hands as you requested, forcing prosecutors, judges to give instructions, to open investigations. We know that no prosecutor can investigate that mayor today, but we also know that this will not always be the case. Let it not be forgotten that those who attack this republic, those who hold grudges against Ataturk, and their comrades, will one day bear their account before the judge and before the independent judge. The AKP representatives talk a lot about freedom of speech these days. Of course we're happy with that. We're glad they remember democracy, freedom of thought, freedom of expression, freedom of the press, but you don't have to look so far away when you're angry with the Netherlands, Germany, you don't need the Dutch to sanction you to remember democracy. Turn to a Silivri. Look at Silivri. Journalists in Silivri Prison are still unable to write letters, they are deprived of their basic rights, the writers of the Cumhuriyet daily, whom you have arrested unjustly and unlawfully, and the journalists who share the same cells with them. That's why you're not believable in anything you say, so your democratic record is dark and your report card is broken. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit03spe0085par0027	Thank you, Mr. Yfriend. The negotiations on the entire bill are over. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, as it is known, the title of the bill is read and processed along with Article 1. As the talks of the drafts begin in today's merger, the title of the bill will not be read during Article 1 in order not to set a precedent, as the party groups agree and there is no intercession. However, the document will also be included in the title of the bill during Article 1. The government of the Republic and the countries of Israel have stood up and the establishment of the United States of Turkey and the establishment of the government of the United States and the establishment of the United States of the United States of Turkey and the establishment of the United States of Turkey and the establishment of the United States of the United States and the establishment of the United States of the United States of Turkey and the United States of Turkey and the United States of Turkey and the United States of Turkey and the United States of Turkey and the United States of Turkey and the United States of Turkey and the United States of Turkey and the United States of Turkey and the United States and the United States of Turkey and the United States MADDE 1- (1) was approved on March 14, 2016 in Ankara by the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Institute of Islamic Lands Standards and the Institute of Metology of Islamic Lands Standards and the Metology Institute of Turkey. First speaker for the group on Article 1, Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit03spe0086par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, first and foremost, I wish to inform our citizens of the damage caused by the tornado disaster in our Antalya Manavgat district today, that they will be compensated immediately. On this occasion, let's remind Mr. Secretary here that we've got disaster money that's been left before, that's not paid, that's what the municipalities have to pay, that's from 2014, Mr. Secretary, and let's remind him of that again. As soon as possible, we think the damage from the past, from such disasters, should be done as well. Dear friends, it's an important international agreement, but when we look at the agenda, I'm afraid there are some very serious developments. In this process of public voting on the constitutional amendment of Turkey, significant developments are taking place that concern foreign policy closely with the reputation of the Republic of Turkey. Mr. President spoke very clearly of these issues in his messages the other day. First of all, we must point out that we do not only accept and condemn the state of the Republic of Turkey's ministers, but any such attempt, provocation, treatment, in any country in Europe. For whatever reason, we must point out that it is not right that the consulates there, which are considered Turkish soil, are even prevented from entering our embassies' buildings, are also against international law. There really is a different turn-on. Yes, there are elections in many countries in Europe, and there are elections in Germany, especially in some other countries, including the Netherlands, where there is the most debate, and we understand that they can be used as domestic policy materials, and we understand their own responses, but unfortunately, in a very different way, there are some behaviors that offend the corporate personality of the Republic of Turkey. We believe that we are behind any measures the state will take within this scope, and that the necessary response should be given to them within the scope of international law. Mr. President has also called on our citizens abroad, where our federation officials have carried out their necessary work and democratic responses, and have yet to say to our officials that they should not support our Turkish noble citizens, or our relatives, who have been nominated during these elections, who have insulted the state of the Republic of Turkey and the state of Turkey, if there are any candidates, should also respond to them and withdraw from the nomination. Frankly, it doesn't make much sense for them to react so harshly, just to connect them to domestic politics and the current elections, to connect them to the European elections. Since July 15th attempted treasonous coup, delegations from many countries have visited both our Parliament and our country, and we have visited some countries along with members of the Foreign Affairs Commission, along with the MPs' delegation. Sadly, in general, the view of the West, and in private Europe, of the Turkic and Islam, is a morbid view, and it is a process that continues from the past to the present. When we look at the historical Sharq problem, what they call the Sharq issue, it has not been possible to break this preconception that's been going on since these Crusades inside of them. The officials of the European Union still come and visit us and the parties from time to time, and we tell them: that double standard is clear from the actions they've already committed to our European Union membership application, some of the political unfair criteria they've set in front of us. In this context, I would like to remind you that not only these reactions, but our full accession process to the European Union, which has been going on since 1963, must also be seriously reconsidered and reviewed. Because there's a double standard here, and that's not fair. There's one thing that we've expressed over and over and over and over again, we've told our concerned ministers here, and we've told the delegations that we've told them, and now I'm describing it as an engagement that doesn't end in a period of fifty-four years, but doesn't go to marriage. This has to be ended in some way, or they really have to come... not half as much as we do, but as many countries who are not half as full members, and on the one hand, there's a European Union's will, which has taken even the troubled part of Cyprus as a full member and led to these problems, and it's important to take it seriously. However, if the Customs Union Agreement does not have a full accession process, it is also necessary to put it on the table and go to work in mutual understanding. For example, we need to take some lessons from the recent Brexit process, which has been approved in Britain, and consider that even the countries in which they have been together for many years may step out of the process. As our president-in-chief said in the previous day, we clearly can't base it on domestic political developments and vote anxiety, the elections within the countries of the European Union. We say this kind of intervention is unacceptable to intervene outside a public vote or an election in Turkey. We're having a really hard time understanding these things. We can understand parties, some groups that are campaigning, but we find it difficult to understand these types of approaches by certain rulers of the European country, and we say to them: "You first question the kingdoms of your own countries, question the monarchys, then come give us a lesson in democracy. Let those who discuss our regime first review their regime. We feel that the countries ruled by the kingdom, from the Netherlands to Belgium, Spain, Sweden, Norway, to the United Kingdom, have no right to teach us about it. We can't help but wonder if the referendum process here is because they're afraid of the reflection of this kind of people's will in their own country. In these countries, we think they may have the same concern that the outcome of April 16th in Turkey would cause new reactions and people to choose who they want to choose, that there would be some expectations for the end of these monarchys. In this context, we think these relationships should be reviewed. Hopefully, this discussion will be over soon. At the end of this process in our country, we will end a number of instability debates, and we will take steps together to a strong Turkey that will focus on resolving its structural problems, focusing on the solution of its economic, political, social problems.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit03spe0087par0046	Thank you, Mr. Günal. The second speaker on behalf of groups on Article 1 is Müslüm Doğan, İzmir MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit03spe0088par0050	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our current arrested co-chairs, our group presidents, our deputies. Dear lawmakers, our country is going through a lot. There's been a coup attempt, you know. The result of the coup attempt was too severe, tens of thousands of public workers, academics, and vaccinated in order to deal with coupgers. If there are all these problems, then there's been a government purge of left and socialists under the name "tasty" for those who attempt a coup. There's been a disturbance in society. People are invisible, not out of work. There are problems that need to be solved and urgent. The international situation is clear. It's important to understand that you can't go anywhere with this foreign policy. You're in there, you're ending democracy, you're out there looking for democracy. You'll have to review that. In 15 years of AK PARTY, our country's most important problems have been detected, but no barley has been able to reach its solution. Who's going to solve these problems? Of course, the Parliament, which carries the will of the people, will solve it. Look, dear lawmakers, why aren't the solution proposals taken into consideration when we've identified the problems? A very valuable process, such as the resolving of the Kurdish problem and reducing the country's agenda, the opening of our people's strong ties from the past into the legal plane for the first time, such as the process of dialogue and resolution. If this process hadn't been wasted, if Turkey had moved to the agenda and will of the Grand National Assembly, hundreds of lives would not have been lost in our country. It's natural and innocent to want to be transformed into an equal relationship by the law of brotherhood, which has come from history and has been a savings. It is stated that this request can be resolved by constitutional citizenship, but avoiding this request and demand will make problems worse in our country. Global powers are now our neighbors. It's a product of the wrong foreign policy we're implementing. We can solve the problems of our country. There is no new situation that global forces offer for our people. They don't want a strong, democratic and liberal republic. Dear lawmakers, the demand for equal citizenship or constitutional citizenship is a matter of recognizing differences and guaranteeing their right to improve themselves. Constitutional citizenship will not harm the cultural and ethnic identity of individuals and will not harm their rights to their own state's citizenship in any way. With the status of this demand, a higher identity will be limited only to political quality. This identity will be Turkey's identity, a democratic nation's identity. In fact, it means the construction of a patriotic nation's identity. We wouldn't be discussing these issues today if we had become a democratic nation 90 years ago. Because of the possibilities of capitalist modernity, it has inevitably affected our country as well as our country as in the world and that even minor differences are becoming too important. At first, various groups, including Kurds, Alevis, other religious groups and Islamic factions who were victims of the headscarf issue, began to strongly appeal to the republic's dominant code of citizenship, which is the sovereign nation and the dominant belief system, and focused on its demands for cultural rights. The collapse of Soviet power, which was valid for Turkey until the end of the process between superstates -- which is where Ataturk separates this ideology from modern society, and I also want to say that he wants to separate it from modern society -- and the ideology, such as secularism, was insufficient to meet those demands. For many years, this formal understanding has been able to hold different ethnic groups together, respectively, against common enemies such as imperialism, communism, radical Islam. However, at the coming point, there is no longer a possibility that ethnic, religious, and cultural groups will be united by producing historical rhetoric from the past. With the use of the past, national integrity is not possible. Thus, a new concept is needed to move Turkey into the future unitedly. So, at this point, the definition of constitutional citizenship is the time to define a constitutional civic identity that will lead to the formation of a democratic nation. The definition of citizenship must be excluded from all ethnic, religious, and cultural implications. In constitutional citizenship, citizenship should not be defined by reference to any ethnic, religious or cultural identity, and as a natural result, there is no preference between differences in the pluralist structure of society that make one/one/one/other/others special. It should be redefined. Dear lawmakers, in this approach, the constitution contains pluralistic values and stays at equal distance from groups that form society. In this way, any difference will be protected by the constitution, and they will be able to maintain and develop their own existence. The second feature of constitutional citizenship is that it prohibits public authorities from following secret or open policies aimed at filing and assimilate differences. In this approach, citizenship cannot be viewed by an instrument that homogenizes society; on the contrary, citizenship is a shield of protection that provides legal assurance to differences. With this quality, it sets the stage for democratic politics. Because the protection of civil and political rights of individuals under the constitution, the recognition of their rights from their identities, also allows them to discuss their problems on a democratic basis without violence. In Turkey, in the constitutions of the republic, citizenship has always been described as a reference to an ethnic identity. In other words, the republic's policy to impose its identity on other ethnicities in the community has found its most specific expressions of citizenship in the constitutions. In particular, citizenship regulations in the 61 and 82 constitutions are problematic in many ways, written by a concept of nationalism that is incompatible with the needs of pluralistic societies. All of these constitutions have served as one form of diversity in our country and have eliminated the ability of different ethnities to declare themselves politically as well as to serve that purpose. Today, this notion of citizenship, which leaves out various parts of society, rather than being inclusive, is one of the biggest obstacles to providing social stability. Therefore, a constitutional text that aims at the peaceful life of members of society must first change the concept of citizenship. As a result of the definition of citizenship through one ethnicity, one of the ethnic identities was forced to accept the other. In order to address this situation, which has emerged in the sense of an ethnic structure of citizenship, the republic's project for modernisation as a joint project, unfortunately, was intended to create a nation and a state at its base. The bureaucratic elite structure of the republic's founding will saw the "multiple" and "differentness" as a cause of weakness. Again, the founding will carried out a policy of creating a new nation with an ethnic identity, following all the different ethnities so that the state they built would never experience the danger of being torn apart again. This was a great illusion, and all the problems came from that understanding. I'd like to continue with examples of valuable lawmakers: Minister of Justice Mahmoud Assad Bozkurt of the period, speaking to voters in Payback during the Ağrı uprising in 1930: "We live in the freest country in the world called Turkey. Your mebus couldn't have found a more suitable environment to speak honestly about their beliefs. I won't hide my feelings for her. The Turk is the sole master of this country, the sole owner. Those who are not of pure Turkish descent have only one right in this country: the right to be a servant, the right to be a slave. Let friends and enemies and even mountains know this truth. Of course, those words have no value anymore, and they're unacceptable. Of course, we can replicate these examples. With thousands of examples like this involved, the wrong and the reason that I brought up the testimony of the irresponsible politicians of the era, which made life difficult together, is because it has to be left behind. Dear lawmakers, the definition of a country defined by an ethnic structure is not accurate. All ethnic structures living in Turkey are members of a nation, so we're describing the democratic nation. The current constitutional definitions are not an expression that recognises the ethnic, religious and cultural differences of the Turkish community; rather, this term is a reference to a completely sovereign ethnic identity and it is a function of praising its values, and it only protects it. This is an unwanted situation, and we need to resolve this situation that has led to a different spiritual process in society. If Turkey is truly going to have a democratic and civil constitution, it says that the constitution will have to develop a new sense of citizenship that provides legal guarantees for differences rather than the idea of homogenizing citizenship in the context of citizenship. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit03spe0089par0073	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. The speech of Müslüm Doğan was completed in Article 1. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. Congressmans, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, I submit to your votes that all votes of the following international agreements should be carried out by separate electronic voting devices: those who agree... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm not going to repeat the general rules of open voting every time. I'm going to read it right now, and the rules I'm going to give you for your information apply to all open voting. I ask that members who have not been able to enter the system during the time of the vote ask the technical staff for help, and that the members who have not been able to get the ballots into the voting process during the scheduled time. In addition, I would like to ask that the ministers who will vote by proxy vote be voted by any minister, the color of the game, and the ballot bearing his name and name and signature be delivered to the presidency again during the time envisioned for the vote. Now I'm giving you three minutes to vote on this deal. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-03-14sit04spe0089par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 81st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. An open vote of all of the 458 rows of the Bill of Law was not enough for the meeting. Now, I'm going to repeat the open vote. I'll give you three minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The Government of the Republic of Turkey and Islamic Lands Standards and the Institute of Metology of Islamic States Standards and the Institute of Metology in Turkey has passed a clear vote on the adoption of additional amendment protocols for Turkey: ▪ Number of votes used: 202 [[x]] İshak Gazel Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with EK-G (/636) and the Foreign Commission Report (1/636) on the Responsibility of EK-G. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 322 rows. There's no demand for word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. As part of the development of the EK-G, on the subject of the disparaging agreements on the State of Emergency, on the subject of the establishment of the court's organization, on the subject of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers, on the basis of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and ADDDE 1- (1) The approval of Ek-G (Econ-G) on the Resolving of Conflicts added to the Stockholm Convention on Permanent Organic Polluters was approved. There is no demand for word on Article 1. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of a clear vote on the Approval of Subsections Against Permanent Organic Pollutions in the Stockholm Convention: ▪ Used Number of Votes : 216 [[X]] İshak Gazel Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The bill has been adopted and legalized. We are starting talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the State of Ecuador, and with the Foreign Commission Report (1/658). Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed by 323 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. REPUBLICATION OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION AND COMMUNITY OF EKVADOR REPUBLICATION CONTROL TO THE CONTROLATION OF ACTION OF THE AIR The approval of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Ecuador, which was signed in Ankara on February 20, 2015. No one wants a word on article 1. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I'd like to present to you the outcome of an open vote by the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Ecuador in accordance with the adoption of the Air Transport Agreement: ▪ Number of votes used : 222 [[x]] İshak Gazel Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The bill has been adopted and legalized. We begin negotiations with the Turkish Republic Government and Foreign Commission Report (1/665) and with its Union of Kohors, where the Agreement for Air Transport is in order. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed by 333 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. REPUBLICATION OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION AND THE AIR FORMATION OF COMMUNITY BEHIND THE AIR INTERVIEW OF COMMUNITY The approval of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Union of Komors, signed in İzmir on May 31, 2012, was approved. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I'd like to submit to your information that the approval of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey 333 rows and the Kohors Association is in order to conclude the open vote of the Dair Legislature: ▪ Number of votes used: 218 [[x]] İshak Gazel Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The bill has been adopted and legalized. We are starting talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report, which has been ranked in the 5th place, and with the approval of the Air Transport Agreement between the government of the Islamic Republic of Turkey and the Islamic Republic of Mauritania. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 336 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. REPUBLICATION OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION AND MORITANIA REPLICATION REPUBLICATION CONTROL TO THE CONTROLATION OF THE CONTROL OF THE ACTION OF ACTIVITY OF ACTIVITY OF ACTIVATION The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Agreement for Air Transport between the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, which was signed in İzmir on May 31, 2012. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I'd like to present to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Bill, which has been approved between the Government of the Republic of Turkey 336 and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Moritania: ▪ Number of votes used : 217 [[x]] İshak Gazel Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The bill has been adopted and legalized. We begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the Companies of the Court of Ministers, where it is appropriate to ratify the Co-operation Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 315 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE PROGRESS OF CONTINUATION OF CONTROLATION WITH THE OCTIVITY OF TURKEY MADDE 1- (1) was approved on 3 June 2013 in Rabat, where the government of the Republic of Turkey and the agreement on Co-operation between the Kingdom of Morocco were signed. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 2 is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I'd like to submit to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Bill that the Act of Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey 315 and the Government of Morocco has been approved: ▪ Number of votes used : 219 [[x]] İshak Gazel Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The bill has been adopted and legalized. We begin talks by the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked 7th among the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Madagascar. The commission is in place. The government is in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 335 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. REPUBLICATION OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION AND MADAGASKAR REPUBLICITY CONTINUES THE CONTACT OF THE AIR CONTACTION IN THE ACTION OF ACTIVATION OF ACTIVATION The approval of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Madagascar, which was signed in İzmir on May 31, 2012. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I'd like to submit to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Bill, where the approval of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Republic of Turkey 335 and the Government of the Republic of Madagascar is appropriate: ▪ Number of votes used: 214 [[x]] İshak Gazel Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The bill has been adopted and legalized. We are starting talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the State of Djibouti Government and the draft of the Dair Legislature and Foreign Commission Report, which are ranked in the 8th place. The commission is in place. The government is in place. The Commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 337 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. REPUBLICATION OF TURKEY REPUBLICITY AND CIBUTI REPUBLICITY CONTINUES THE CONTINUATION OF AIR CONTROL The approval of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Djibouti, which was signed in İzmir on May 31, 2012. I submit the first article to your votes: those who accept.. Those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I'd like to submit to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Bill, in accordance with the Government of Republic of Turkey 337 and the Government of the Republic of Djibouti, that ratification of the Air Transport Agreement is in order: ▪ Number of votes used : 220 [[x]] İshak Gazel Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The bill has been adopted and legalized. We are starting talks with the State Commission Report (1/532) and with the Council of Foreign Affairs Report (1/532), which has been ranked in the 9th ranking position of the European Agreement on the International Transport of Dangerous goods. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 224 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE CONTROL OF THE DANGERAL CONTROLATION OF THE UNIVERSE WITH THE DANGERAL MESSAGE OF THE DANGERAL MADDE 1- (1) Admissions of the European Agreement on the International Transport of Dangerous goods have been approved within the United Nations European Economic Commission. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I'd like to present to you the clear result of the open vote of the Dair Bill of Law, where the European Agreement for International Transport and Dangerous Property Number 224 is suitable for ratification of Approvals: ▪ Number of votes used : 223 [[x]] İshak Gazel Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The bill has been adopted and legalized. We begin talks between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Arab Tourism Organization (ATÖ) between Turkey and its 10th Republic of Turkey, where it is appropriate to ratify the Agreement on Representativeship (Agreement in Turkey) and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 462 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. ARAP TURISM PRODUCTION WITH THE REPUBLICITY OF TURISM (HORE) PRODUCTION PRODUCTION OF ACTION OF ACTIVITY IN TOURCY MADDE 1- (1) Agreement on Responsibility between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Arab Tourism Organization (ATÖ) signed on May 3, 2016 was approved. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I'd like to present to you the clear result of the open vote of the Dair Law Bill, between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Arab Tourism Organization (ATÖ) and Turkey: ▪ Number of votes used: 225 [[x]] İshak Gazel Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The bill has been adopted and legalized. We begin talks with Biology and the Foreign Commission Report, which are ranked 11th in line, in accordance with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Human Dignity from Biology and Medicine. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 344 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Human rights and the protection of human life from the harmonization of the bio-medicine and TIBBI are still in place for the execution of human population. The Convention on Human Rights and Protection of Human Dignity, signed on 12 January 1998 in Paris, has been approved of the Protocol Against the Prohibition of Human Rights and Human Dignity. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 2 is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] A clear vote from Biology and Medicine Maintenance to Human Rights and Human Dignity Convention on Prohibition Protocol Approved: ▪ Number of votes used: 229 [[X]] İshak Gazel Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The bill has been adopted and legalized. We are starting talks with the Turkish Ministry of Health and the World Health Organization's European Regional Office, drafting the Law and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked 12th, in accordance with the Annual Co-operation Agreement 2010/2011. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed by 342 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. ENGLISH REPUBLICITY CONTINUES OF THE REPLICATION OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE WORLD REPLICATION OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE WORLD MADDE 1- (1) On behalf of the Republic of Turkey on January 7, 2010, the adoption of two annual Co-operation Agreement between the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Turkey and the European Regional Office of the World Health Organization 2010/2011 was approved. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 2 is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 3 is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I'd like to present to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Court of Health of the Republic of Turkey and the World Health Organization between the European Regional Office for Two Years' Co-operation Agreement 2010/2011. ▪ Number of votes used : 221 [[x]] İshak Gazel Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The bill has been adopted and legalized. We are starting talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the National Defence Commission and Foreign Commission Reports, which are ranked 13th, in accordance with the Cognitive Act on Support from Turkey's Homeowner Country between the Turkish Republic and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 346 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. As a matter of fact, I'd like to say that I'd like to say that I'd like to say that I'd like to say that I'd like to say that I'd like to say that I'd like to say that I'd like to say that I'd like to say that I'd like to say that I'd like to say that I'd like to say that I'm a little bit more than a little bit more than a little bit of a little bit more than a little bit more than a little bit more than a little bit more than a little bit more than I'd like to think that I'd like to say that I'd be a little bit more than a little bit more than a little bit more than a little bit more than a little bit more than a little bit more than a little bit of a little bit more than a little bit of a little bit more than a little bit of a MADDE 1- (1) was approved by the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus on 10 April 2015. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I'd like to present to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Bill, between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, on Support from the Homeowner Country. ▪ Number of votes used : 217 [[x]] İshak Gazel Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The bill has been adopted and legalized. We are starting talks with the European-Caucasus-Asian Transport Hall, where it is appropriate to ratify protocols on the Multilateral Basic Agreement on International Transport Over the European-Asian Transport Corridor. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 347 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The development of the development of the development of the nationalisation of the European-Personal-Personal Council for the European-Estructure of the Republic of America and the Constitution of the United States of Europe and the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the United States and the United States and the United States of America and the United States and the United States and the United States of America and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the ADADDE 1- (1) Protocol on Multilateral Basic Agreement on Development of International Transport Over the European-Caucasus-Asian Transport Corridor signed in İstanbul on 29 January 2015 has been approved. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I submit to you the conclusion of the open vote of the European-Caucasus-Asian Transport Hall in 347 rows, the draft law bill and the Foreign Commission Report, that it is appropriate to ratify the Protocol on the Multilateral Basic Agreement on International Transport Over the European-Asian Transport Corridor: ▪ Number of votes used: 216 [[x]] İshak Gazel Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The bill has been adopted and legalized. We begin negotiations with the National Defence Commission and Foreign Commission Reports, which ranked 15th in the ranks of the Turkish Republic's Government and the Government of the Republic of Portugal, where it is appropriate to ratify the Agreement on the Reciprocal Protection of Information. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 348 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE PROTECTION OF TURKEY REPUBLICITY INTERVIEWING THE CONTINUE OF UNIFERENCE CONTINUES THAT THE CONTINUE OF PROTECTIVE INTERVIEWING KNOWLEDGE IS CONTINUED The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey between the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Portugal of Portugal, which was signed on March 3, 2015, was approved. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I present to you the result of an open vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Portugal in accordance with the draft of the Law on Mutual Protection of Information, and the National Defence Commission and Foreign Commission Reports: ▪ Number of votes used: 216 [[x]] İshak Gazel Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The bill has been adopted and legalized. We are starting talks with the Turkish Ministry of Public Works and the Ministry of Housing and the Ministry of Housing and Construction of the Republic of Iraq and The Covenant Zaptı and the draft of the Law and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of Notes. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 349 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In the event that they've been able to deal with Turkey's Republic of Turkey and its poverty and the establishment of Iraq and humanity, they've been able to maintain their position in the area of the development of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Turkey and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Turkey and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Turkey and the People of Turkey. MADDE 1- (1) was approved on October 15, 2009 in Baghdad. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... The 2nd has been accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I'd like to present to you the conclusion of an open vote by the Turkish Republic's Ministry of Public Works and the Ministry of Housing and Construction of the Iraqi Republic. ▪ Number of votes used: 218 [[x]] İshak Gazel Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The bill has been adopted and legalized. We are starting talks with the Minister of Environment and Forestry of the Republic of Turkey and with the Minister of the Austrian Republic of Turkey and the Minister of the Federal, Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management, who are ranked 17. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 351 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE REPUBLICATION OF TURKEY REVOLUTION AND THE ORMAN'S CONTINUE FEDERAL TO AVUSTRY COMMUNITY, AGREEMENT, CONTINUATION OF THE CONTINUATION OF THE CONTROLATION OF CONTINUATION OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TRANSLATION AND FORMATION The adoption of the Minister of Environment and Forest of the Republic of Turkey, signed in Vienna on June 18, 2009, and the Minister of Co-operation between the Minister of Federal, Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management, has been approved. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 3 is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The Minister of Environment and Forestry of the Republic of Turkey and the Austrian Republic, the Minister of the Federal, Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management, may I present to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Perpetual Law, that the Memorandum of Co-operation in the Environment and Forestry is appropriate: ▪ Number of votes used: 215 [[x]] İshak Gazel Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The bill has been adopted and legalized. We are starting talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the State of Moldova Government in accordance with the Constitutional Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 353 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. CONTINUES CONTINUES TO CONTROL THE CONTROL OF THE COMMUNITY OF TURKEY AND THE COMMUNITY OF MOLDOVA MADDE 1- (1) was approved on 1 November 2012 in Ankara, with the approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and The Covenant in the Environment Area between the Government of the Republic of Moldova. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I'd like to present to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Legislature Charter, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Moldova. ▪ Number of votes used : 217 [[x]] İshak Gazel Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin talks with Turkey's Environment and Forestry Ministry, which are ranked in the 19th place, and with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Iraqi Republic, and with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will not be found after this, it is Wednesday (March 15th, 2017) that we should discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision taken. I'm closing the assembly at 00, and I wish you a good evening.
