tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 10th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Balıkesir MP Ali Aydınlıoğlu who wants to talk about the massacre in Arakan. Here you are, Mr. Aydınlıoğlu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes, so please observe the deadline.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise on the massacre and genocide of Muslims living in Arakan. I hereby salute your high council with respect and love. At the beginning of my words, Mr. Baykal, former President of the Republican People's Party, who has had heavy brain surgery, I wish you an immediate recovery from the People's Party of the Republic, the People's Party of the Republic. Since August 25th, thousands of Muslims have died in their attacks against civilians in Arakan, claiming the fight against armed militants by the Myanmar army. The number of civilians who died was not fully determined because Myanmar's administration refused to allow entry and exit to the region. Around 200 villages, armies and Buddhist nationalists were burned or unusable in the attacks, tens of thousands of Arab Muslims are still moving away from the region due to their safety. Civilians fleeing Myanmar are trying to cross the mountains, the Naf River, or over the sea into Bangladesh. Bangladesh has reached more than 540,000 Arab Muslims since 25 August. Dear friends, despite the pressures of the international community, especially Turkey, the persecution of the Myanmar army and radical Buddhists against the Arab Muslims continues, unfortunately. The United Nations rejected Turkey's urgent request for talks to draw attention to the violence inflicted by Arab Muslims. Well, why? Oil and natural gas are the cause of the Arakan massacre. Arakan is one of the seven provinces of Myanmar in Southeast Asia. About a million Muslims live. Buddhist massacres against Arab Muslims have been systematic since 2012. Behind the attack policy is the strategic location of Arakan (Arakan). Myanmar is located in the Bay of Bengal in Southeast Asia, and Arakan Province is right on the shoreline. In 2010, construction of two separate pipelines from Arakan (Arakan) to Yunnan Province of China began. The lines that carry energy to China go from sea to Arakan to Yunnan. With the construction of the pipelines, the territory where the lines crossed became a military zone, and attacks began on Muslim villages in that region. Arakan is a natural port of energy transfer to the far east. This is the least expensive route. One of the lines is natural gas, one of which runs through oil. Construction, which began in 2010, was completed in 2013, and was carried from these lines to China on average 12 billion cubic metres of gas annually, while the Arab Muslims who crossed pipelines across their territory were brutally slaughtered. Also, oil and natural gas reserves have been detected in the Arakan region. In Muslim territory, 1.2 trillion cubic metres of gas and 2.1 billion barrels of oil reserves were found. For reasons such as the protection of natural gas and oil pipelines, unfortunately, Muslims are being massacred. But, unfortunately, the world is silent, the world is silent, the United Nations silent. What is the purpose of the United Nations? What's the Security Council for? During these massacres, Arakans fled from death, crossing the river in boats, trying to escape to Bangladesh, while many of them died, dead bodies of babies washed up on the shores of the sea, but no Western country paid attention to them. After all, the Arab Muslims continue to be slaughtered for the energy that moved to China. Given the oil and gas pump heads, the issue is clear. Dear lawmakers, in our state archives we have the love, interest, and help of Arakan Muslims in our country. As Turkey, we conduct a multilateral diplomacy to put an end to the drama in Arakan. Since the beginning of the massacres, Mr. President has made phone calls or face-to-face with many leaders. In addition, his wife, his son, his wife, and our ministers visited Muslims who had taken refuge in Bangladesh, and they discussed all the issues, and we tried to get humanitarian aid to that area. If the Bangladesh administration had assigned us a territory, we would have built tent camps here with our experience. We are planning to build reliable tent cities, and we are continuing this request as the Republic of Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My dear friends, I wish all of you, with all due respect, to the immediate end of the massacres against Muslims, especially in the world, especially Arakan.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0003par0020	Thank you, Mr. Aydınlıoğlu. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Antalya MP Ahmet Selim Yurdakul. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0004par0025	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party to discuss the problems of valued lawmakers, respected citizens, loyal health community; health, health, and fully trained and selfless health workers working in this area. There are problems in this community that we trust with our lives that he wants to bring up. First of all, our health community wants us to end violence in health. As the National Movement Party, let's make it legal as soon as possible for the law proposals to prevent violence in health, or the law proposal to co-operate. The second issue is the share of wear and tear. The entire health community already knows that we've made the wear-down portion of the election manifest a party policy. What we have said is that every four years of self - sacrificing work without day and night must be paid a year's worth of wear and tear. We speak of it sincerely every chance we get. Mr. President, we know that the Prime Minister and the Health Ministers have promised us a share of the wear and tear, but there's no result. Perhaps a deputy from the AKP Group will soon explain to us why his share of the wearout has not yet been given. I'd also like to point out that we have a position and a position as the National Movement Party, whether it's a part of the wear and tear, or whether it's a reflection of return capital revenues on pensions. On these two issues, and our proposals for the increase of current salaries for employees and pensioners and other motions await the Parliamentary Presidency. From the Minister of Health, I beg you, please take it into consideration. Let's quickly improve the rights of our health community. Honourable MPs, dear citizens; there are a group of Turkish youths who are listening to us on their screens right now, their number is about 450,000, so their families and 1,800,000 Turkish citizens have a simple demand, we have studied well in health to serve our citizens, to give them their health. Despite all these trainings, the hospitals are being taken into the hospital with unspecified certificates, even though they have not had as much training as we do. My brothers and sisters, who are not employed despite the need for health care, or who are unable to do their job due to job descriptions and legislation problems, expect hope from us. 450,000 young people from 36 majors are asking the government for their rights. We've submitted motions as the National Movement Party for almost all of them. We worry about the troubles of these young people. I believe that the government's consciences will not remain silent. Let's figure it out, these are simple things, ten minutes of work in a time when we're united as a nation. As our president and leader, Mr. State Gardener, stated, putting stones on stones is among the principles of politics that make us who we are, if necessary. By the end of 2017, you can make many young people happy with a new appointment to assist medical staff. Another issue is that we have brothers and sisters who are waiting for security investigations to be completed, who are appointed, but who can't get back to work. At the very least, let's get the records of the archives back to work. Only a few thousand, after the final appointment of 3,300. These brothers have been waiting for months. Believe me, they're all depressed. If the security investigation is negative, you can finish them off anyway. Actually, we don't have much to talk about in health, but I'm afraid our time is five minutes. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0005par0035	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Eskişehir MP Utku Çakırözer, who wants to talk about foreign policy and human rights. Mr. Cakirözer, here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0006par0040	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Our heroic expert sergeant, the one we buried in Eskişehir yesterday, is our Chosen Arikan brother, and I ask God's mercy on all our martyrs, and my condolences on their families and on our nation. Again, I wish mercy to our citizens who have lost their lives in the job murder, which we can't call an accident in Şırnak. And I would also like to convey to Mr. Deniz Baykal, our former president, who has provided our country with very valuable services, our sincerest wishes to see him among us as soon as possible. My dear friends, our strong cooperation with Western international institutions and organizations, the most fundamental anchor to our foreign policy, has recently suffered significant damage. Our country, the founder of the Council of Europe, which we call the conscience of Europe, has been re-examined, as in the coup of September 12th. The Council's esteemed legal arm, the Venice Commission, has issued reports one after the other showing that the amendments to our Constitution and laws have been removed from democratic standards. Again, the European Security and Co-operation agency, which we founded, reported in detail how it had cast a shadow over the constitutional referendum. Even if our EU accession process isn't official, it's practically frozen. Our contribution to peace and stability in our region has become questionable within the North Atlantic Co-operation Agency, one of our oldest and most influential members. Bilateral relations with friends and allies such as Germany, the U.S., are experiencing tensions that have never happened in the past. My dear friends, we all know that Turkey is a country that has been shown by finger in the very near past, in our region, and in the world. The most important reason for this was that we were among the dozens of countries in which the people were Muslims, the only country that could turn their face towards democracy, the state of law, freedom, secularism, pluralism, equality of men and women, and science. The fact that we deviated from those traits also cripples our relations with Western institutions, which have contributed to our international reputation so far. Of course, there's no denying that we have faults and responsibilities in relationships that go back. It saddens all of us that our relations have become a hostage to the perpetrators of the July 15 coup attempt, the politicians who are driven by the rising racist, anti-Islamic currents across the world to compete with them. We emphasise at every opportunity the wrong approach of European institutions to punish our citizens for authoritarian orientation in Turkey. We said it was unacceptable for the US administration to punish our people for the crisis with Ankara, and we will continue to say and contribute to the solution of the crisis. When we say all this, we've got to sink the shit out of ourselves. My dear friends, look, this is the 5th time that the OHR administration and parliament, which have been brought in as three months, have been bypassed by bypassing the KHK. The State of Emergency administration is being used for almost every purpose except to fight the perpetrators and supporters of the coup attempt. Although the Constitutional Court has made decisions, elected MPs have been under arrest for months. Our Istanbul MP Enis Berberoglu is living his 125th day among the four walls today, despite the ruling by the upper court to remove the grounds for his imprisonment. Once again, my dear friends, would it be an arrest for a broken decision? Cumhuriyet daily Editor-in-Chief Murat Soapcu and other employees of the newspaper will fill their 1st year at Silivri Prison next week. One day, Mahir Kanaat, the reporter, was unable to hold her newborn baby for two hundred and seventy-four days, but for the first time next week, she will appear before the judge. The Speaker is Gökmen Gökmen Ulic has been in prison for 46 days and has reported to the coupkers the location of the President. But look, there's news in the papers today, in the documents of the Raider case, that the coupgers went to Marmaris, not with Gökmen's news, but with marked maps. 60 journalists, including Ali Bulaç, Mehmet Alton, Şahin Alpay, Nazlı Ilıcak, are wanted to be sentenced to life in prison for the past four hundred days. How do we compare the blood-soaked gangbangers who killed our citizens to the names of those who were only tried for their writings? You cannot tell the world about the arrest of human rights defenders Idil Ezer, İlkinur Uzün, Özlem Dalkeran, Nalan Erkem, and others. No one is immune to the judiciary, but with the logic of holding them hostage just because we trade, the citizens of our own country and other countries cannot be held in prison. Two hundred and twenty-four days on a hunger strike, we must hear the cry of justice from Nuria and Namih. On October 10th, we must respect the feelings of families who want to remember 102 lives. We must make our citizens seek justice in independent courts, not treetops. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As we strengthen our democracy in our country, our state of law; as we strengthen scientific, secular education; we believe that we will regain our rightful place in the international arena.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0007par0056	Thank you, Mr. Cacharouser. Now, I'm going to make a commitment to the 15 congressmen who have entered the system for one minute under the Internal Code 60. Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0008par0061	Mr. President, thank you. Seven of our workers were killed yesterday in the coal mine in Şırnak. As a country, we have to experience new suffering before we forget the pain of Soma. The ones responsible for these sufferings were the ones who fled from responsibility, saying, "Maden had no license." You've been running the country for 15 years, how come you don't know where it's registered and where it's registered? Now the mining company has tricked you? Who's responsible for the illegal mine being able to work? What are you going to do about these responsible people? Or will you continue to protect the employer by saying, "We are in the State of Emergency?" If you can't take responsibility, if you can't manage it, resign immediately. With these thoughts, I wish God's mercy to our citizens who died in the cave-in, and my condolences to their relatives.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0009par0065	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0010par0067	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I would like to announce once again the voice of those of our citizens, who are victims of the age of retirement, who are under the roof of the House, who have been given an age requirement after a period of premium day and insurance. I have expressed many times the problems and expectations of solutions by means of written and verbal question proposals and press releases. A written question motion on the matter would negatively affect the active balance of the Social Security Agency and increase the transfer of the treasure. The answer was given. So when it comes to palaces, summer homes, minions, there's no saving dignity. When it comes to our citizens, they suddenly think about the treasure of the state. From here, I call to all parties: "Come, let us give all of us the good news that they deserve in the 2018 budget.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0011par0070	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0012par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, members of the public police, are our only value. Under the 5th Amendment of our Constitution, the main objective and duties of the state are to ensure the prosperity, peace and happiness of individuals and society. I've offered the law to raise the standards of living by police under heavy conditions from 3,000 to 3,600 ▪ the additional indicators of prosperity during their retirement. Police officers suffer a great deal from this and the heavy working conditions. When will it be better for law enforcement to have a problem with additional indicators and heavy working conditions? When will this additional indicator bring up our bill of law? Why does the government not support this? All police officers await this good news. I thank you, all of you, and give you my regards.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0013par0076	Mr. Akkaya instead of Mr. Adil...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0014par0078	In this parliament, the commission for Şırnak mining areas has been established, and it has been said to be closed. The Department of Labor sent an inspector, it's been declared closed. Well, is it closed? No, the production has continued. There was another job murder in 2013, sent by an inspector from the Department of Labor. The Minister of Energy has made a statement: The escape mines will be closed. Is it closed? No. 2014-2015, business murder again in the same place, similar explanations: ▪ The escape mines will be closed down. • Is it closed? No. Seven workers were killed yesterday. The explanation is the same: the mines will be closed as fugitives. Dear friends, in the process, 18 workers were killed in business. The question is, can a weak government manage this country in a healthy manner without even inspecting the Şırnak minefield?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0015par0084	Mr. Mountainer...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0016par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. And first, I'd like to send my condolences to the CHP Group. And to Mr. Deniz Baykal, I wish you a speedy recovery. Today is the 97th anniversary of the rescue of our lovely, beautiful district of Adana from the enemy invasion of Saimbeyli. On this occasion, I remember all our martyrs and veterans with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude, especially as Veterans Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the commander in chief of the struggle for salvation. I'm celebrating the salvation of all my fellow citizens. I send greetings and greetings to all my countrymen, and I entrust all my people to God.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0017par0089	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0018par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Whether you want it or not, it will pass through the House. The law, which gives the mufti he calls "wedding," divided society before it was passed by the General Assembly. The young man in Anatolia doesn't listen to the words of your officers, Mr. President, but a teacher listens to the words of his master. We can't accept this separative, polarizing expression. Who are our president's officers? So, Mr. President, who are your officers? We don't accept this majority politics that divides society by religion, sects, lifestyles, that ignores the sensitivity of all segments of society. And so, before this law is passed by the General Assembly, I call again to dismiss this provision that separates society from the bill before it's in effect.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0017par0093	Mr. Gündüz...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0019par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. Can Azerbaijan, a nation of two states, became independent on October 18, 1991. I celebrate the 26th anniversary of Can Azerbaijan, who was independent, and the 26th year of Independence Day. To the people of Azerbaijan, I wish the two states good luck to Turkey, a nation. And I long for that independence to continue. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0020par0098	Thank you. Mr. Bassman...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0021par0101	Mr. President, my dear deputies, today we were in control of the TÜRKSAT Enterprises Corporation as members of the CSI Commission. You know, TÜRKSAT is one of the faces of our country, where very serious money is invested, a lot of work is done. But it's interesting, I looked at the Board of Directors list, Maksut Serim, İbrahim Kala, Mustafa Varank from the staff of the President's advisers; Ali Taha Koç from the prime minister's staff. Just out of curiosity, if anyone knows, please answer: is it necessary to be a counselor or a board member to become a member of a board of directors at any OSCE institution? I'm curious about that. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0020par0103	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0022par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. While 400,000 teachers are still short of teachers in our country, opposition teachers to power are thrown into position and replaced with low-paying teachers. As we have seen in the example of the town of Çaldıran of Van, some of the paid teachers assigned to teach pre-school and classrooms are selected from two years of disinterested undergraduate undergraduate undergraduates such as field plants, large and small livestock, furniture and decorations. Unfortunately, those who need to feed, carve wood or grow vegetables are now being raised by our diamond-valued education system, as the Minister of National Education calls it. The AKP is sacrificing Turkey's future to ignorance to make it permanent. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0023par0108	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0024par0110	Thank you. Many towns locked in the gates of the Metropolitan Law and its municipalities are devastated so that the AKP's mayors do not lose elections in major cities. They can't be served, and they can't find an answer to their troubles. The same problems are happening in Demirtaş neighbourhood of our town of Bursa Osmangazi. The Demirtaşs want to be a county with a population of 100,000 to get service because their roads, their streets are a mess, as they haven't been served since their municipalities were taken away. Fulfill the request of this neighborhood, which is beyond the reach of your idea of non-human-oriented municipalism, and ensure that it becomes a county. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0025par0115	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0026par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. Although we as a country cannot produce high-tech devices, we are first in the world to use these products. Social media accounts such as cell phones, internet, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram are used by the majority of our citizens. However, on social media, people behave in such ways as blasphemy, insults, defiance. Complaints are not answered for a long time due to legal deficiencies. Facebook, with social media accounts such as Twitter, requests that the required protocols be signed and the insulting pages be closed at the moment of complaint, that the courts continue later and that the victims be immediately resolved, and that I offer respects.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0027par0120	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0028par0122	I'm asking the Minister of Labor and Social Security: it is said that between those who have retired from your Ministry's Social Security institution and those who have recently retired, there are between 200 and 500 Turkish liras paid different pensions. Retired pensioners who pay your institution more premiums receive less, pensioners who pay less. This increases complaints in creating inequality among pensioners. When are you going to settle the inequality between pensioners as a ministry? When are you planning on doing an attitude adjustment on this? There are also complaints that pensions have been cut for Syrians. When are you going to stop these interruptions? Do you plan to make a improvement for those who are waiting for time to retire? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0029par0126	Mr. Heroalp...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0030par0128	Mr. President, I ask God's mercy on our citizens who died in the mine murder in Şırnak, who lost their lives in the job murder. Following the State of Emergency declaration, KHK No. 676 is required to conduct a security investigation and/or archive investigation to become an officer in Article 48.0 of State Officers Act 657. Therefore, 3,233 personnel from 12.500 health personnel appointed at the Ministry of Health in June 2017 were involved in a security investigation, and they were still unable to take office after four months. In the same way, staff assigned to many majors are also involved in the same investigation and expect to be launched. We've had a lot of applications on our side lately. How many personnel have not been appointed by your ministry, and since the security investigation and/or archive investigation has not been completed? In order for the appointment of health staff in your ministry to be made...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0031par0132	Mr. Aras, instead of Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0032par0134	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish the people of Friend and Brother Azerbaijan success in the 26th anniversary of their foundation. Established in 1918, the First People's Republic of Shark, the People's Republic of Azerbaijan, was only alive for about two years, ending the existence of the People's Republic of Azerbaijan in 1920. Azerbaijan, who remained in the abandonment of the Soviet Union for seventy years, made demands for independence under the glasnost of the 1980s, and led the Soviet Union, which tolerated the Baltic republics, Armenia, Georgia, and Baku on January 20th, to slaughter the Azerbaijan people. However, the people of Azerbaijan, who did not give up their fight, gained independence on October 18th 1991, and then was raped by Armenia, the spoilt country of the region, and lost the seven departments and the ancient Turkish homeland of Karabağ to Armenia.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0031par0137	Thank you. Your Excessive...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0033par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, there were injured by the terrorist attack on the staff service vehicle belonging to our County Security Directorate in Mersin, and by our police and civilian citizens. I pray God to heal our wounded. I condemn and condemn this treacherous attack against our country, our brotherhood, our unity and our union with violence and hatred. As lawmakers of Mersin, we went to Mersin, visited our wounded police and civilian citizens in hospitals where they were treated. These treacherous attacks, designed by our country's peaceful, well-being and inner peace centers, will not reach its goal in any way today, as it did yesterday, but will continue to rise as one heart in unity and unity, increasing its stability and growth, he says, with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0031par0142	Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0034par0144	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today is Azerbaijan's day of independence. After the fall of the Soviet Union, the people of Azerbaijan stood up for the second time in the last century and declared their independence. At the session of October 18, 1991, the Azerbaijan Ali Assembly unanimously adopted the constitutional bill of independence of the Republic of Azerbaijan. Today, Azerbaijan, a shining star in the Caucasus, has become a number of civilized states in the world, protecting his language, religion, and spiritual values as a pupil. It has made great progress in social, cultural, economic and commercial areas. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0031par0146	Thank you. Finally, Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0035par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday there was a traitorous terrorist attack on a staff vehicle carrying members of my district of Mersin. Immediately after the incident, we took a break from our work at the Turkish Grand National Assembly and went to our city with our fellow MPs. We wished for immediate healing by visiting our wounded policemen and fellow citizens in hospitals. Turkey's fight against terrorism will continue, however, under any circumstances. It has to be known that these attacks will not weaken our fight against terrorism. Turkey's more effective challenge will continue from now on. I curse all forms of terror, and ask God to heal our wounded policemen and my countrymen, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0036par0152	Thank you. Now, I'm going to make a two-minute commitment to the members of the group who entered the system. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0037par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. We have a very interesting treatment in the House, and I'd like to bring it to your attention. Indeed, some of the points are tragic. Now I have 122 rejections or extradition proposals in this 26th term. 122 is a very important number, but there are some of the ones that have actually been discussed in this Parliament, which are written here by us, although the groups have expressed their views, and then there are some of the ones that come in. Now, I would like to make a specific point about today's motion: "In a short period of time, detention, arrest, dismissal, threats, forced resignation or retirement from administrative duties, a number of lawless practices such as Mobbing and this one have been followed." This sentence has been drawn. Now, do we have to express who wants it? So we didn't do it all the time, we didn't do it; we didn't do it, we didn't do it, we didn't do it, we didn't do it, we didn't do it, we didn't do it, we didn't do it, we didn't do it, we didn't do it, we didn't do it, we didn't do it, we didn't do it, we didn't do it, we didn't do it, we didn't do it, we didn't do Another sentence: "Don't let the children die." The teacher Ayþe was condemned to give birth to her own child in prison conditions. Now, I'd like to ask you again who we choose our words for. The demand for peace is most severely punished, as all these examples show, in the last two years... it begins.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0038par0162	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0037par0163	In a country where the demand for peace is considered a crime, it is impossible to speak of law, democracy, and human rights. Now, what are we really supposed to do? How good you are, how well you run this country; what a spacious, beautiful democracy there is, and we're all very happy, and... so we're a political party and we're the opposition party, we're the 3rd largest party of this Assembly, and we'll decide for ourselves if we don't insult our own words. We would like to make it clear to you and to the Parliament that we are seriously denying this. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0039par0166	Thank you. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0040par0169	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the anniversary of the independence of Friend and Brother Azerbaijan. When Mehmed Emin Lezade declared independence for the first time in 1918, Azerbaijan said that the rising flag would never land again. In Azerbaijan, on October 18, 1991, the Constitution Act on State Independence of the Republic of Azerbaijan was adopted. Despite twenty-six years of independence, Azerbaijan's territorial integrity has not yet been established, and the occupation of Azerbaijan remains. The Azerbaijans, which make up more than 10 per cent of the country's population, have been displaced and are still refugees. Hopefully, the day will come when the Mountain Karabakh will be freed from captivity, from occupation, and will be united in its homeland. Once again, I want to express our faith and will that friendship and brotherhood, based on unwavering foundations between Turkey and Azerbaijan, and that cooperation and cooperation will grow forever in accordance with the understanding of one nation, two states. On this occasion, the National Movement for Azerbaijan, especially Mehmed Emin Evalzade and Abulfez Elçibey, whose life was dedicated to the struggle for freedom of Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan), remembers the members of the Movement for Azerbaijan with mercy and gratitude, and celebrates the anniversary of Azerbaijan's independence. Mr. President, yesterday, in the cave-in in Şırnak, we learned that seven of our workers have lost their lives, and as we said yesterday, we ask God's mercy to the miners who lost their lives and to their families, to their relatives, to our nation. I'm afraid this issue of illegal mining continues. We also regret to know, especially after the Soma mining accident, that the report by the Turkish Grand National Assembly research commission has been taken into consideration and is not necessary until now, and we are his followers.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0041par0177	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0040par0178	The way of the mind is one. It is absolutely necessary to prevent the immediate taking of necessary measures and the running of illegal mines in the cases of mining and business accidents and the deaths of workers. Yesterday, a bomb attack was launched during the passage of a police vehicle in Mersin. It's our only consolation that there are no casualties in this terrorist attack that wounded 12 of our officers. I say to the police community and to Mersin. I wish our wounded officers a speedy recovery. Terrorist attacks can't be considered independent of time and space. It is not a coincidence that yesterday's attack in Mersin took place during a period of developments in Iraq and Syria in accordance with Turkey's national policy. Operations are under way in Syria. In the region, we must continue to exist without allowing a corridor of terror, while the necessary diplomatic steps must be taken. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0042par0182	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. By the way, our brothers from the Multi-Magla Milas Veterans Association have come to our General Assembly, and we welcome them, and we thank all our veterans. (Applause) We also ask God's mercy once again for all of our martyrs who died in the fight against terrorism. Yes, it's time for Mr. Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0043par0191	Thank you, Mr. President. And on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I am grateful to welcome the esteemed members of our V.A. Association, their executives, and welcome to them. We were with them on my road trips. They have honored our coven. The gratitude of our nation, our people against them will last for the rest of our lives. Mr. President, it's a good coincidence that my Mehmet Mush President is here. They had heated discussions with our member of the group, Mr. Eren Erdem. And in this case, Mr. Mush -- as he went to trial -- Eren Erdem -- had been declared a bit of a criminal in the first place. That trial is complete. There's been a lot of talk in this House. Those who complained about the people's hatred and hostility were not far away from the ruling party group, and the complaint was: Eren Erdem threw a letter and said: "If Turkey and Iran face each other, I will be on Iran's side. If Iran falls, the whole of the East falls. It's called something, and the D.A. got this tip. First to the Crime Lab, after answering him, he wrote to Cyber Crimes everywhere, and he made a decision, and he said: "Even though such a claim was not confirmed, neither those I've written nor those I've ever written have confirmed that such an institution has been thrown out. There is no need to prosecute. I will do so if such a thing is proved. All the roads are open. He said. I wanted to make it clear once again that Eren is behind what Eren said, and that the trial did not embarrass Eren Erdem.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0044par0195	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0043par0196	There's a second issue, we've talked about it before, we've all expressed our regret together: I also mentioned the conversation I had with Helin Palandöken, his father -- he had an interview in the Cumhuriyet daily yesterday, where he says, "Surrender, everyone called me, the Prime Minister called me, but they censored our conversation with the Prime Minister. They didn't say what I said. For example, make laws against women's murders against that prime minister. It'll take you two hours. There's a law every day. I said, "Why shouldn't there be a law on women?" The media only gave the Prime Minister's speeches. Here, of course, I was sad to read about the interview yesterday in the Republican newspaper, where only the cameras of the prime minister's reporters were taken, and then when the meeting was served through agencies, a father's right-of-the-art was not considered worthy of service, and a blackout was carried out. The ruling party group can be a little more careful about this, and they can tell the Prime Minister about our service. And finally, I'd like to say that Mr. Erkan Akçay just said that we served on that commission together. We'll keep saying that every day. This Assembly has a Soma report, which it shares in a significant part; there are 130 pages of proposals to avoid mining accidents; there are 12 pages of summary of these proposals. He's not coming up on that council agenda. Please...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0044par0199	Let's open it up, guys.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0043par0200	We address the ruling party group and the Speaker of Parliament: this report needs to be put on the agenda of Parliament. On that day, our esteemed MP from the ruling party, who chaired the Commission, also served as the minister of the 25th term. He can be invited again, his views can be taken. We have a Balıkesir MP working on that commission, Bartin's MP. Let's sit down, let's do that report together, let's make the government do what it's supposed to do, and let's not cry to our martyrs after the mining accidents. And let's tell Mr. Collarak that the mine -- every time -- runs on the run. He says, "But then we control it, it's closed." He says, "Someone's dying again." Such an excuse is not acceptable, let the Ministry do its duty. I'd like to point out that in the coming days, we're going to be pursuing the Minister's irresponsibility in an effective way that the House is going to take on. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0045par0203	Thank you. Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0046par0206	Mr. President, thank you. And I wish Mr. Baykal....that we follow your health condition....again with urgent healing. I'm hoping he'll get well and come back to us as soon as possible. By the way, today is the 26th anniversary of Azerbaijan. I wish all Azerbaijan's people well, and congratulations to the Azerbaijan people. Mr. Private himself wasn't here at the debate. In my speech, I told him that if Iran-Turkey fights, I'll hire Iran. You're a man who calls himself Eren Erdem. Then he went up to the stand, and I didn't say that, there was a court order. He said, "He accused me of lying, I am sending the court order immediately." Of course, he didn't send it right away, so he reached out to us on Monday or Tuesday. There's this situation... and then, I came down, Eren Erdem is making a statement, admitting that the tweet had been thrown out. I can send that statement to Mr. Special. In his own statement, he admits that something like this had been thrown into the Doğan News Agency. Later, he made statements from his Twitter account, and in terms of that day, he was thrown out in terms of the meaning of that day. The court makes various correspondences on Twitter -- central in the United States; the court makes the decision that Mr. Special is making because the information is not available as a result of the correspondence, so it can't confirm it here. But Mr. Eren Erdem says in his own statements that this tweet was thrown out. I can send this statement and this statement to Mr. Special Branch at the Doğan News Agency. In this regard, the expressions I use are expressions against the statements used earlier. Eren Erdem here understood his mistake in this, and I was throwing the speech away, in an interview, and it was a speech used at a conference, and I shared those words. I hope, of course, that someone who is a member of the Turkish Republic will be on the side of Turkey in such a situation, that I will wait, that he has made such a mistake and realized it, and if he has returned from this place, I will appreciate it, but what I say is true. I'll send Mr. Special as well as his statement shortly. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0047par0211	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0048par0212	Mr. President, report to the report. Mr. Eren Erdem has now made a phone call, and we know exactly what it is, and his statement is this: this is not mine. They took it from here, and they took it from here, and they took it out of there, even though I said something that was said by someone else, even though I showed it to them. There's a court order coming in like a door. On that day, you said: "You can't show that court order." We showed it.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0047par0213	Thank you. It's on the record, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0049par0215	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0047par0216	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0049par0217	Mr. Special isn't here that day. I told him... I said, "I'm sending it right now. I'm going, and it's been two or three hours, and I'm here, and there's still no decision." Look, you need to take good care of the court order, the court...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0050par0218	Come in, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0047par0219	Let's open it. Let's finish this, but it's polemic now, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0051par0221	I'm not running this polemic, their statement is clear. The court is writing to Twitter, and it says: "Is such a thing thrown out? " Twitter is not responding to our Security's correspondence with the relevant institutions here. When he doesn't, the court can't make a decision when he doesn't get an answer, but there's his own statement from the Doğan News Agency.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0052par0223	No, he says he doesn't.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0051par0224	I'll send you the date, the number.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0053par0225	Well, it's been filed, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0051par0226	He says there was such a thing, and then he says: "Ya, this was thrown out, right, but it was a writer's, so I threw it at a conference in an interview. Why would you throw that away, a word that could be misconstrued? You'll notice, you're politicians. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0053par0228	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0054par0229	Mr. President, I would like to take advantage of the same right.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0053par0230	You're mutually... Let's get you a cup of tea, if you like. Let's move on to our agenda.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0055par0233	We drink your tea all the time.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0053par0234	Here you go, Mr. Special. Let's finish, please.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0055par0236	Mr. President, for one thing, I find it true in the House: I didn't throw such a thing. If someone says, "You can't prove it." If he says, and then he shows you the court record, why did you still do it, then why did you do it? The man said, "I didn't do it." He said, "I can't bring a court order." You said, "He did." As long as you don't bring a court order, we owe Eren Erdem. We owe Eren an apology, and I'd like to remind you of that. The purpose of Eren Erdem. He said, "There is no such thing on the stand." He said, "I said the word of this and that." Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0056par0239	Mr. Special, we'll send it to you. It's Mr. Erdem who should apologize.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0057par0240	Well, it's in the transcripts. Congressmans, we, as the Presidential Court, are celebrating the anniversary of the independence of friend and brother Azerbaijan. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's 18/10/2017 meeting on Wednesday (now), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On October 18, 2017, TBMM President was proposed to conduct talks Wednesday (May 18/10/2017) on the launch of parliamentary research in order to determine and resolve the problems of MHP Deputy President and Manisa MP Erkan Akçaj, as well as cotton producers in our country. Adana MP Muharrem Varli will speak on the proposal of the National Movement Party Group. Dear Varli, come in.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0058par0262	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today is the anniversary of the liberation of Saimbeyli district of Adana Province. From here, I'm celebrating the salvation of all the Saimbeys, wishing I'd never have to suffer like this again, never to fight for salvation again. Again, the anniversary of Azerbaijan's salvation, his independence. From here, I wish our Azerbaijan brothers and our Turkish brothers there to continue their independence forever. I made a commitment to our proposal to investigate the problems of the cotton manufacturers. Dear friends, I told you here last year that the government must take precautions. Solution? I've told you the solution, but as if we didn't say it differently, we're faced with a very different practice, and a problem that could be a victim of cotton producers. Last year, the price of log cotton was $2.85 on the free market, which is $2,850,000 on the old money. Right now, the price of log cotton is $2.35, which is $2,350,000 in old money. There's a loss, like $500,000 in the old number. Now, when fertilizer prices and diesel prices have increased between 10 per cent and 15 per cent, what does it remind you of? I mean, who won here, who lost here, and that's what I asked you last time, again. So, when we need to produce cotton, is it our gain to increase cotton production when Turkey needs 3.5 million tons of loggers of cotton from outside, while we import $2 billion of cotton a year, or are we supposed to lower cotton prices and put them in front of the farmer's profits and put them on the initiative of three or five traders? Our gain, of course, is to ensure that the farmer produces it and encourage the farmer to produce it in a way that makes money out of cotton, so that it doesn't hurt the farmer every year. However, it's always the wrong policy, the more the farmer's loss continues. My dear friends, today, if our farmer had actually produced cotton in Çukurova, in the Aegean, in the area of Urbana and Diyarbakir, we would be able to produce 3.5 million tons of gravel cotton; we also have land available, air available, water available, and our farmer knows how to grow cotton. But, what are we doing? We should be encouraging cotton production, but we're undermining cotton production. My dear friends, look, I told you here last year about the bonus, and when we met the minister one-on-one, and when we met the previous minister, I told him, and even though I was right, cotton bonus benefits are still at $800,000. Yeah, well, let's get this country's farmer to plant cotton, and I just told you, our land is available, our water is available, our air is available. So instead of taking $2 billion to other people's farmer, Greece's farmer, India's farmer, America's farmer, and putting it in their pocket, the Turkish farmer's gain, the Turkish state's gain. Our textile industry is the most competitive institution we've ever sold out. What's the raw material? Snow. Where do we get cotton? We take it from the outside and we pay for it. I mean, is it right to do that, or is it more profitable for us to make 3.5 million tons of cotton and run our own cotton and use our own cotton to sell it out in textile industry, giving the farmer more premium support? Of course, it's true that the textile industry that we make of the raw material, which we can market outside, is our own, but we're telling you here, unfortunately, the Department of Agriculture has failed to implement it. A month ago, there was $2,850,000 in the free market, and the old money is now $2,350,000 in cotton. Who won? The money earns money. Who won? The interest lobby won. Who's the loser? I'm afraid he's a farmer. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0059par0272	Thank you. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Diyarbakır MP Alton Tan.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0060par0275	Mr. President, lawmakers, one of the things Turkey has been bragging about over the years is that Turkey is one of seven self-sufficient, self-sufficient countries in agriculture and livestock in the world. But for some reason, over the years, this legend has become a huge failure and unfortunately an empty bet, and Turkey has become a country that has to import straw, which has to import meat from Serbia, which has to import cotton from the outside. Why, why, why, how? Now, in the three minutes we've been given, I'm afraid it's hard to explain this, but there's a very famous saying in the world: reinventing America. You don't need to reinvent America. There are countries in the world that do it in perfect order. At first, the Netherlands, France, the United States, set record after record for seeding in tiny Israel, both in agricultural products and at the point of livestock. In Turkey, there's everything: there's flour, there's oil, there's sugar, there's fire, there's a pot, there's a pan, there's no cook who can cook properly, and there's a lot of reasons why... there's a Ceylannar State Production Farm, there's about 1,800,000 acres, almost as small as a country, but unfortunately when we look at these production numbers, we're dealing with a failure. Dear friends, if you know nothing and you can't do it, you know, France, America, Holland, what do you do, brother, what do you do, how do you do it? You have dozens of brands in the industry, you have products, you export all the way around the world, and you ask, "How do you do agriculture and animalism?" I've traveled almost all of these countries within my means, and I've tried to understand, see, and figure out what they're doing within my means. Let's just give an example of the Netherlands -- everyone's giving examples, and I'll give you an example -- a country the size of our province, 85 billion euros a year, about $100 billion in exports of agriculture and livestock, $100 billion. Our entire export is $145 billion. I wonder what the Department of Agriculture is doing, what the State Planning Agency is doing. We need to get some serious work done as soon as possible. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0061par0279	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Bursa MP Orhan Sarıbal. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0062par0283	Mr. President, we're discussing cotton; we're discussing cotton, as in other areas of agriculture, but we need to say to power in particular: Know that the problems of agriculture are not technical; the problems of agriculture are not economical; the problems of agriculture are not human labor or mechanical issues; the problem of agriculture is the government's policy, the problem of agriculture is politics, of course, the problem of cotton is political; depending on where you look at it. In 2015, there was 143 billion dollars in agricultural general exports. This is $18 billion in textile industry exports. What's the source of the textile industry? Snow. Turkey consumes 1.5 million tonnes of cotton a year. 700,70,000 tons of this is domestic production, and we import the rest. Where? From the United States of America. Where? From Turkmenistan. Where? From Greece. 40 percent of the cotton produced in Greece buys this land, we buy it, and that's how we make Greece's village rich. So, what are we doing here, what are we doing here? So what we're doing is we're saying that the deal we made with the World Trade Organization in power and politics in 1995, the process of the European Union, the resetting of customs, that's exactly the point. This import issue has become the fundamental agricultural strategy of the Justice and Development Party. It is possible that the land of this country is able to produce 3 million tons of cotton." In the same way, wheat, corn, barley, canola, sunflowers, rice, livestock... This land is capable of feeding 200-250 million people - climate, soil, geography, all kinds of wealth available, it's possible. So what's the problem? The problem is, the Justice and Development Party doesn't want the farmers on this land to develop. The Justice and Development Party does not want production on this country's territory. Look, precious politicians, there's a very clear concept called land gasbide. This is the way the imperialists do it in this land and in less developed countries: 1) First it makes your farmers poor, your inputs become expensive, your farmers leave your village, come to cities. 2) Then foreigners enter the land slowly, rent it, contract and trust farm. 3) You come, you buy this land, and you live as slaves on your own land if you find a place to work. This is the main source of policy in agriculture that is currently being implemented. Is it possible to get out? Of course it's possible. 1) Give up your love of imports. What is it with you and the importers that you're so fond of? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm really curious, tell me this, on the stand, let me get this straight. 2) You must and must make a genuine support. 3) Anthrax, Children's Association, needs support. 4) The price of inputs must be reduced. If that happens, not in this land, but in tobacco, not cotton, we'll be able to produce all kinds of products and stand up for food sovereignty and food safety. Dear President, that's as much as I can say in three minutes. Thank you. Good luck.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0063par0299	Thank you, Mr. Saribal. I submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's 18/10/2017 meeting on Wednesday (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 18 October 2017, İstanbul MP, Group Deputy President Fliz Kerestecioglu proposed that the meetings of academics and teachers, teachers and other public workers who have expressed the demand for peace number 5662 rankings be met in a joint session Wednesday (18/10/2017) in order to investigate their dismissal, trial and other sentences in the context of national and international law and academic freedoms. The first word on the proposal, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, is Mardin MP Mithat Sancar. Here you go, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0064par0313	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the most important, positive phases in this country's recent history, was the process of resolving. A process was launched to resolve a very difficult problem that had been going on in Turkey for decades with dialogue and negotiations. Unfortunately, that process was put on the shelf just as it gained an important momentum towards success. After such an important historic meeting and meeting, known as Dolmabahçe's agreement, the President of the period himself declared that such a agreement would not be recognized, and after that, it was the return of the conflict. After two-and-a-half years of non-conflict violence would have devastating consequences at that time, such views were passed on to both the report and verbally to the prime minister and the relevant ministers of the period, as I was a member of the Council of Akil people, but unfortunately this process was not continued. There was a demand for peace in various environments to end the subsequent conflicts. This request was addressed with various activities. For example, on December 29th, public workers had a day's work layoff, and the goal was to promote peace immediately, now - no to war, peace, right now. Later, a declaration of academics, 1,128 local and foreign academics, was issued with the title "We will not be a party to this crime." What was required here was to return to the process of resolving the terms of peace. But once, power had decided to return to violence policies, war strategy. Prior to that, the solution was declared a traitor who did not take the word "peace" into his mouth as the process continued. There was a mistake there, too. Of course, criticism of the process could be made, but whoever was critical of the process was immediately declared a traitor. The word "peace" was claimed to be the sole monopoly of power. Then, this time, the traitor who spoke the word "peace" was declared. Although the declaration of the traitor was a solo promise, however, the rally in Ankara on October 10th, demanding peace, was the most bloody attack in the history of the Republic of Turkey, the most severe, the most violent massacre. When peace was expressed as demand, it became a concept with a very high price. Then the liquidation process for academics began. Not only the dismissals, but the seizure of passports, the curfews, and then the trial. All of this is aimed at preventing peace policies in all areas because power believed that it could only continue with its policies of violence and war, and the demand for peace was shaking that strategy, disturbing it. Obstructed peace actions, murdered peace activists, purged peace academics should remind us of something again, dear lawmakers. If you continue with the war policies, the day after tomorrow, these policies will start to hit you badly in person as a party and as a power, because what is built on these policies is the one-man administration, the one-man administration, the one-man administration. In this administration, no one has a say in either of you, not everyone... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...he takes his share, he has to pay the price here. There's only one way out for Turkey: peace. There's only one solution: dialogue, negotiation, democracy. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0065par0319	Thank you, Mr. Sancar. [[Applause from HDP rows]] On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Ali Şeker will speak. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0066par0324	On January 8, 2016, the teacher Ayþe, who was on a television program, said: "Are you aware of what happened in the east of the country? What's happening here is very different in the media. Don't be quiet, approach with a little more sensitivity as a human being. See, hear, and give us a hand. It's a shame that people don't die, children don't die, mothers don't cry, children don't die, children don't get killed, mothers don't cry. Copperville 2. In the trial held at the High Criminal Court, the prosecutor demanded a sentence of up to seven and a half years for the charge of propaganda for Ayşe teacher. On 2 October 2017, the trial was closed and a year and three months in prison were approved. Ayþe told the teacher to give birth to her child in prison. Today, while Ayþe is sending her teacher to prison, the children you had her teach at pedophile schools when she was forced to give birth to her child are thinking about suicide, suicidal tendencies, and 3-5-year-olds. This is the education system you brought in. Just before the June 7, 2015 elections, we lost many of our civil citizens, soldiers, police, in the massacres of our country, starting with the 400 MPs or the headlines of chaos. We wanted to investigate the terrorist incidents of the CHP by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and you rejected all our proposals. Almost everyone in the country who expressed their discomfort with blood has been declared a traitor by power and his lackeys, and has been issued notices about them, condemned. I've been in Parliament for two and a half years, and I haven't seen any of your steps for peace. For example, why did you immediately expel Lieutenant Colonel Mehmet Alkan, the brother of Martyr Ali Alkan, for those who said "Peace be upon you" until the end of the day? Peace Academics who want peace as a teacher and sign a declaration for it are being tried. During the September 12th fascist junta, intellectuals were tried in a case known as the Peace Association case. You're doing the same thing to the Peace Academy. You're trying to prove that you're not missing anything from the other blows. Dear MPs, please don't let the children die, don't let the mothers cry. The young teacher, Ayşe Çelik, who says, "Don't let the children cry." We ask for peace for two hundred and seventy-four days, without making indictments for Mahir Kanaat and Ömer Çelik. We will not be a party to this crime. You cannot ignore your own crimes, the facts, by dismissing academics and public employees who say, "We will not be a party to it." Remember, you guys, you're gonna need justice one day.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit01spe0067par0331	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0067par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 10th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Republican People's Party has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Counsellor's 18/10/2017 on Wednesday (now), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. The meeting of Turkey's Grand National Assembly agenda (10/1770) of the Council of Parliament (10/10/2017) was proposed during the General Assembly's 18/10/2017 Wednesday (now) merger of the main Council for Assembly Research in Ankara in order to protect and resolve the structures of the Republic, which have been destroyed and threatened to be destroyed. The first statement on the Republican People's Party Group's proposal belongs to Ankara MP Nihat Yeşil. Mr. Green, please.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0068par0014	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have made a commitment to the structures of the Republic and the structures that should be protected. I salute you all with respect and love of the High Council. Dear friends, for the first time, I wish for immediate healing for the illness of our former President, Mr. Deniz Baykal. I also cherish our fallen citizens who were killed in the mining accident. I pray for immediate healing to our security guards who face a vicious attack on Mersin. Dear friends, the capital, Ankara, was an example of modern Turkey and the modern Turkish city, a symbol of modern Turkey's and the ideals of the republic's regime. Ankara was the first city, not only urban, not spatial, but social and cultural dimensions. So Ankara was very important for the history and culture of the republic, not just for examples. Dear friends, among the buildings that were threatened with destruction were the historic Bank of Provinces in Ankara, which was considered a work of the Republic, and was destroyed in June by an operation in the middle of the night. Melih posed as a victory over the debris. His basic duty in Ankara was to erase the republic's tracks in this city. That's why the republic's legacy, which was destroyed by a night raid on June 16, 2017, posed as a victory over the ruins of the Bank of Provinces. We submitted the motion in May. Ankara's most important green areas, again a republic's legacy, were also torn apart by road projects in the process. The process of the destruction of the Ataturk Forest Farm was also carried out by the construction of an illegal palace. During the early years of the Republic, the land that was founded as a urban farm and entrusted to the treasure was looted to pieces over the years, with the restoration of a barren and swamped land. The gas factory, founded as a major industrial move in the Republic era, was Ankara's first electricity production facility to work with air gas, coca coal. The Maltepe Air Gas Factory, which contains 350 tons of asbestos, was known to have caused irreparable damage to human health, even though it was known that all of the buildings in our country in the year 2000 and earlier were used with asbestos. Saraçoglu neighborhood, the first public housing project in the Republic, was also one of the target areas. At Ankara's most important central centre, the housing area was located in the focus of a large range, while the first public housing project of the republic, the neighborhood, was forced to evacuate. We've all heard that with its historical texture, its original architecture and its appearance in the greenery, the neighborhood, which has an important place in the capital basin, is being pursued by other institutions, especially different, like TORGEV. Dear friends did not deal with one single structure during the AKP republic, but also tried to do everything possible to deal with all republical values. About the law we're just discussing, our women were left with all sorts of atrocities yesterday when they came in and tried to bring it up with what they called an imam wedding. For him, the AKP is not only dealing with structures, it's dealing with all the values of the republic. He's doing everything in his power to destroy all the values the Republic has established for us as a blessing. In education, in culture, in health, in all areas, he is also involved in such an effort in this field. We've all seen with our eyes that hundreds of structures that we can't count here have been destroyed during this period -- which are already in disposable -- Mr. Mayor of the EC PARTI administration -- which is not considered official -- are disposable -- Melih Gökçek. It's odd that we, as Ankara lawmakers, have brought this up without an audience. They tried to bring them up with various excuses, but they never explained their reasons and reasons, just trying to apply pressure to get them to resign. So we say, why they quit, why they first sold a parcel of this city, we never find it right to leave without paying for it. In that sense, before Mr. Melih Gökçek leaves here, without explaining the reasons for all this, we will always be litigators, we will continue to ask the Ankara people to answer for it.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0069par0023	Thank you, Mr. Green. Ankara MP Mustafa Mit will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Dear Mit, come in.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0070par0027	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Republican Party Party Party Group regarding the group's proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Honorable MPs are Ankara Turkey, which witnessed the birth of the Republic of Turkey and is identified with the republic, and is the Republic of Turkey. We look at the world from Ankara, in terms of Turkish-Islam civilization. Ankara, on the one hand, represents the history of Haci Bayram with the tradition of Veli and Ahilik, Turkey with the Grand National Assembly and the republic with modern Turkey and the future. Ankara has a silhouette of mind. With zoning changes, Ankara in the minds is disappearing day by day. For Ankara to make more visible architectural works, the symbol of the republic, construction around it must be cleaned, and the green areas of Redia and Ulus will be increased. The nation must be judged as a whole, on the one hand its history, and on the other hand it must be the tourist centre of modern Ankara. State institutions must have that understanding, but it is not right for some institutions, general managerships, to move from Ankara. The Bank of Business in Ulus (National Bank of Agriculture) in Ulus (National Bank) has identified Ankara with the Republic with these institutions. These practices that have eroded the government's sovereignty must be abandoned. The architectural monuments representing Ankara are the same as the government's sovereignty. The attitude toward one of these will affect others. Buildings such as the Ankara Gar Building, the Opera Building, the Turkish January Building are symbolic structures of Ankara. The problems of full-central concentrations affect all Ankara, all Ankara residents. In this regard, the discovery of Ankara's historical and natural environment and face, the transfer of the mentality that Ankara represents to future generations, not just politics, but every institution's duty, I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0071par0031	Thank you. The last speaker for the groups is Diyarbakır MP Ziya Pir on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Pir.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0072par0035	Mr. President, of course the republic has a memory, but before that there were Ottomans, before that there were many civilizations, but also cities and communities have memories. We're not just supposed to have the republic's memory, we're supposed to have the memory of the others that I'm counting, we're supposed to protect them from being destroyed. Now, of course, we've talked about societies outside cities, and societies have memories. In Turkey, not only the Turks, but also the Kurds. As a Diyarbakır MP, I'd like to draw your attention to that side. At present, destructions are being done in Surici (Suriçi), the central district of Diyarbakır Province of Turkey. I don't want to go into this polymax with you: Here, there was a shootout, and this one burned, and that one, and that one, and that one, and that one, and that one, there was no conflict in any way, but Ali Pasha and Lalebey are being destroyed right now. Surici has 7,000 years of history and is now a site of destruction. No one knows what's out there under the ground right now. Before there's destruction there, before the buildings are built, a scientific team has to go in there and do some archaeological excavations and see what's underneath. There's got to be something under 7,000-year-old cities, 30 inches under the ground, maybe three feet under. This is the same as destroying the memory of those civilizations and of the Kurds without explanation. Let us tell you more about what happened in the last months: Diyarbakır Yenişehir trustee Mehmet Uzon has taken down the sign, his name Mehmet Long has been rewritten, but the Kurdish writings are now incomplete, not written. The East Whiteite trustee Ahmadi Hani destroyed his statue. Diyarbakır trustee tore down Roboski's memorial. He destroyed the monument of Uður Kaymaz, who was shot with 13 bullets at the age of 12. Before, the monument of Orhan Doğan, who was a member of the city, was destroyed. The former Diyarbakır Yenişehir Kayium -- a new trustee was appointed because he was corrupt -- destroyed the Marvanis -- and the image of Ahmed Arif. Friends, give up this TOKI mentality, it's time for us to take care of all of our assets, all of our cultural assets, not just of the republic. My respects.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0073par0041	Thank you. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and move to the part of the agenda with the draft and proposals of the Law and other actions from the Commission. We will resume the talks of Justice and Development Party Deputy Mehmet Mush and 4 MPs İstanbul MP Mehmet Mush, who are ranked in the 1st place, under the Population Services Act and the Amendment to the Law on Population Services and the Interior Commission Report, where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. The talks on the 497-line bill, which was considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code, were held on behalf of the National Party of Action.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0074par0050	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0073par0051	I'm going to make a personal promise, but let me make this a reminder. We took a break yesterday, and I'll repeat the names of the members who entered the system for the question: Mr. Tanal, Mr. Basmacı, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Özdish, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Tekin, Mr. Özdemir. These guys were in the system to ask questions when they started all the interviews yesterday, so if our interested friends get back into the system, they won't lose their rights. Mr. Special, I'm listening.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0075par0054	Mr. President, we're still negotiating. The 497 rankings came as both a bag of laws and a basic law, as the Justice and Development Party, particularly in the 24th term, abused heavily and continued without adopting another method in the 26th period. When the bag comes in as a law, there's no way you can talk about a substance that we're completely opposed to, and there's no way you can talk about it. When these talks are completed and voted to be passed, which is why sectional talks will begin -- the adoption of this law by the Parliament, the adoption of its agenda, and the talks on the matter will begin. In fact, we have stated that both in the relevant Commission and in the Parliamentary Presidency, the number of 497 rows in particular carries open discrepancies to the Constitution in terms of Article 6 and Article 31. Now, the law that we're about to begin today is that if you don't return it to the commission, or if we don't establish a will to be pulled out of this bag by these 6th and 31st articles, we'll be doing something against the Constitution. For this reason, we ask the office for supply and demand that the negotiations be continued after the removal of the talks to the Commission and the removal of these violations of Constitutional provisions, particularly of Articles 6 and 31.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0076par0055	The negotiations have begun.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0077par0056	We started yesterday.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0075par0057	Talk to your group and object accordingly.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0076par0058	You'll be on time for violation of the Constitution...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0078par0059	Mr. Special, of course, such arguments and conversations have been expressed in a lot of fundamental laws, in a similar way, and the presidency has made decisions that are actually a unique practice. So we already talked about having this discussion today, and we started talking about the whole thing. But other than that, the bill was transferred to the presidential internal commission. The Internal Affairs Commission is continuing, continuing the same debates, and has agreed to those discussions, it has the power to bind them, rather, and it's tied to a report. This report has been distributed, and with the General Assembly's vote, this has entered into our agenda today, as of yesterday. So as the Council of Parliament, as the Court of Parliament, we have no luxury of not discussing a matter that has been decided in front of us as the Court of Appeals, which is bound to the report; we have no opportunity to discuss such arguments; which, in the process of the Commission, as well as in the matter of the General Assembly, we will already submit to the approval of the General Assembly, and the matter will actually take into account the Inland Charter, which you have just mentioned about the violations of the Constitution, if you have such a serious claim on the Articles -- it commands it again -- in the matter of the matter -- in the matter of the Constitutional Court itself -- we will already look into its approval, and we will look into it as if it passes through the Constitution of the Constitutional Court of the Constitution. So there's no way we're going to be able to discuss a proposal or a bill that's been made like this, cooked, subcontracted as the Presidential Court. I don't think there should even be a formal debate on this, but I'd like to suggest that, in your insistence, we've started their discussion on the general, as well as your insistence, I'd like to open the legal debate.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0079par0060	In favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0080par0061	Lehte.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0081par0062	Against Mr. President and against Mahmoud Tanal.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0082par0063	There's no argument against procedure, Mr. President. We've started the procedure.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0083par0064	Lehte, Mr. Mehmet Mush, Mr. Mehmet Doğan Kubat; opposite, Mr. Special and Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0084par0065	Mr. President, can the camera zoom in on Mr. Turan? We want Mr. President to see that he's in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0082par0066	It's all over now!
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0085par0067	Mr. President, in fact, you need to open up a legal debate about your attitude, because you can do something like this easily on the 6th Amendment. It was supposed to be a motion, but if you could just put it on the record that you did it on purpose.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0086par0068	Yeah, as long as we don't register.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0085par0069	It would be more appropriate to call it opinion, because there's no way that the procedure debate can be here, so I guess our friends will be on the stand to give an opinion.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0086par0070	Yeah, well, I've already expressed my opinion, so the way he argues about it, because we're following procedure, so I've already expressed that I have no choice but to discuss it.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0087par0071	Mr. President, we have a special situation here, let the record show.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0086par0072	It'll be on the record, we'll talk about it on the stand, you'll talk about it.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0087par0073	Not him, but Mr. Elitaş will agree. Since the claim of violation of the Constitution is unique to each law, we begin it this way. It is fitting to give it to the Constitution and to respect the Parliament rather than to say it. I mean, I'm actually in favor of your position to open up this argument of procedure, so let me put it this way.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0086par0074	Thank you very much. Okay. Yes, now the first word in favour of my position in the legal debate belongs to Mr. Mehmet Mush. Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0088par0080	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, for once, I don't think it's right to have a formal discussion here. The talks have already begun over the law; there is a violation of the Constitution over a law text which they are negotiating. It is not right to open a procedure called "It is not right, it is contrary to the Civil Code." I invite everyone to act according to the Civil Code. Article 38 of the Civil Code is very clear: Commissions are obliged to first examine whether the bill or proposals referred to them are contrary to the text and the spirit of the Constitution. Hence, if the Commission referred this to it, the arguments at the point of violation of the Constitution will end.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0089par0082	No, no, Mr. President, no.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0090par0083	They didn't.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0088par0084	The debate at the point of violation of the Constitution ends, and it is not necessary to open the same arguments here again. Now, let's get to item six. What's in item 6? The 6th article also provides authorization for the district and county mufti for the official marriage. The main opposition claims it is contrary to the Constitution, and asks that this text be removed from this bill. Now, I'd like to say that the debate that came to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as a bill, which was discussed in the Commission and sent here -- if there had been any violation of the Constitution, this would have been discussed in the Commission -- is not true. Turkey's Grand National Assembly takes legitimacy from the nation and has the authority to make laws for the nation. An officer, appointed by the mayor or mayor of the wedding, is assigned to the villages by Muktar, borough and county population managers, foreign diplomatic missions, and that includes county and county mufti. Here, it is not a religious wedding for the county and county muftu. Just as an officer in the municipality is having a wedding, just as a concerned bureaucrat or civil servant in the foreign diplomatic mission is having a wedding...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0091par0086	Mr. Mukhtar...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0088par0087	...as the Mukhtar performs a wedding, the marriage of the mufti is subject to the same procedure and basis, there is no change in the Civil Law. There is no change in the requirements or conditions of an official marriage. The requirement for an official marriage is the same whether you go to the city official or to the mayor, whether you come to the mufti. There's no change here.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0092par0088	The Mufti is an official in this country. Is the mufti an officer of another state?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0088par0089	But here's what they try to do: it's as if it's a religious wedding, as if it's a marriage for the mufti. In that sense, I'd like to invite the vice president of the group to read the letter of the law with caution. There's no wedding for the mufti. Besides, if someone wants to have a religious wedding, they also need to do it. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0093par0092	The commissioner told me at the meeting that we would take the two of them out together.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0094par0093	The first word against my attitude belongs to Mr. Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0095par0096	Mr. Tanal, the applause is good for you from the group. Is there a new nomination or something?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0094par0097	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0096par0098	Dear President, we'd like a round of applause.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0095par0099	We'll applaud in a moment.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0096par0100	I hope so. Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with respect. This bill is not contrary to the Constitution? The debate was proposed in the Commission, our fellow commissioners suggested it, and the subcommittee suggested it, very comfortable, the number of rows is here, we have it. There is a principle in the law called "substantial writing." And there is no decision in this commission, in the subcommittee, and in the main commission that has been made, not by the Commission, but in a way that is not contrary to the Constitution. First of all, it's important to point that out. Dear friends, now, the preacher has just said... that if we give the official wedding here to government officials who have no religious references, then we will agree with you. It's not today's issue to discuss giving this to a civil servant with religious credentials. In 1923, during the discussion of Article 42 of the Lausanne Convention, minorities discussed marriage, divorce, alimony, during that period. It was said by both Christian and Jewish other heavenly religions at the time that the state of the Republic of Turkey would be a secular state. For that reason, any religion will be married by a person who has no religious reference to everyone without a segregation on the sect. (For that period, such assurances were not granted by the Republic of Turkey because the Civil Law came into effect in 1926, the Lauzan Convention and the debate began in 1923. But we come to 1925. At the time, Jewish and Christian authorities and other heavenly religions waived that right, and a single legal system was adopted by the Civil Law in 1926 to implement it in the country. Article 110 of our Civil Law at the time, Mr. Mush, Constitution 174/4, clearly and clearly, the laws of revolution and this cannot be changed; the rule of law in Article 2 of the Constitution shall not be changed, nor shall it be offered to change the Article 4 of the Constitution. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm going to finish in a minute or two... I'm sorry.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0097par0106	I can't give you two minutes, but I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0098par0107	No, Mr. President, you'll have to give it to me. No, but we're keeping track of our time.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0097par0108	Mr. Tanal, the grace was too much.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0099par0109	Let's get in the middle of this, Mayor.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0097par0110	Please, complete.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0099par0111	Okay. Now, the 24 lasts of the Constitution, the 10th article of the Constitution, equality and 174, are against all of them. Now, friends...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0100par0113	Tell me whether he's a civil servant or not, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0099par0114	Mr. Mush, look, the way to tear the country apart and divide it is through here, plain and simple.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0100par0116	Oh, you're interrupting.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0099par0117	This project is the project. This project is not the project of the secular legal state. In Rome, the inter-religious dialogue talks said: "Ya sir, how beautiful it is that you have married in the church, but why can't we do it in the mosque?" If you're cut off from the project, give up, but if your secret alliances continue, your own votes are too high.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0101par0118	Did you cut it?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0099par0119	But if there is a law state in Turkey, if there is a rule of law, it is against Article 2 of the Constitution, Article 4 of the article, Article 10 of the Article 24, and the last joke of the 24th article, and 174/4. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My plea from you is, please, let's not divide the country, let's not tear it apart. For the sake of national unity and unity, let's try to solve this country's problems with terrorism, try to solve unemployment, solve poverty. So these are our problems, dear friends.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0101par0122	Did you break up with him, with him? Mr. Tanal, what's your level of relationship?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0099par0123	Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0102par0125	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0101par0126	Mr. Tanal, what is the nature of the relationship?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0103par0127	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0102par0128	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0103par0129	Mr. President, Mr. Tanal, we're trying to divide the country by mentioning my name...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0104par0130	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0105par0131	By bringing this law, you're dividing the country. Yes, you're dividing the country.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0103par0132	...that this is a project of.... and he has asked me such questions. According to 69, he taunted me by mentioning my name.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0106par0133	Here you go. Please, let's not afford another tease. In two minutes...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0107par0138	Mr. President, we've never had an agenda to divide the country, never had one. We're even a party that can be expressed as Turkey's cement because we're the only party in Turkey that can get MPs out of 78 provinces. He didn't have to put this reality on the table first. Dear lawmakers, look, Mufti is a government official, so he's an officer. The one who works at the city hall is an officer. There's no difference between the two at the point of public service.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0108par0140	There is.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0107par0141	A public servant or a public official who works for the Local Register Office is also an officer, both of whom are civil servants.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0108par0142	One has a religious label.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0107par0143	This formal marriage is not a religious wedding. Sir, we're being given samples from abroad. With examples abroad... If people from different religions and groups within the country also have such a wedding, will it be accepted? Unacceptable, dear friends. The reason is that they're not civil servants.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0109par0144	Why was it mufti?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0110par0145	Then have the head of property sign it, too!
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0107par0146	According to religious rituals, people can perform weddings, but in order for this to be considered official marriage, it has to be done in accordance with the form and basis of the law. That's the authority here.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0111par0147	You're interrupting, you're interrupting!
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0107par0148	Beyond that, there is no basis or basis for the expressions used. I'd also like to point out, sir, that this is a project, so let's see if you're cut off from it.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0111par0149	What are we going to see if they didn't cut it off?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0107par0150	Well, dear friends, we are a party that is fighting decisively, and we continue to make that determination. [Cheers and applause from CHP rows!] But you know what? I couldn't stop these channels from being closed in Tarik Toros' room while the canals were being closed. I'm so sorry. Those who shed tears can't even understand the fight against him. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0112par0154	Who signed their channel opening, which minister?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0113par0155	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0114par0156	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0113par0157	The preacher must've teased me by hinting at me, so I'd like to speak according to 69.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0114par0158	Were you the one who shed tears? Those who shed tears." He said, "No name. If you're offended, be my guest.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0115par0159	The one who sheds tears, Mr. President. Did he shed tears?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0113par0160	Now, look, I just talked to him, and he said...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0115par0161	Mahmoud Tanal, did you cry or not?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0116par0162	I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0113par0165	Dear President, dear friends, let's not get ahead of ourselves, and let's get down to business. Now, this bill that is available, the laws of revolution, the principle of equality in Article 10 of the Constitution... Our Christian brothers, who are Turkish citizens the day after tomorrow, are Jewish brothers and sisters who are Turkish citizens, and we want to do so by taking religious references in this way, and we want to do so according to our religious guardianship. What will you do if he tells us?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0117par0167	He can do it, but it's not an official wedding.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0113par0168	Sir, our friends made an offer, why did you refuse?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0117par0169	No formal weddings, he's got to be a public servant.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0113par0170	Look, second of all, I just showed you this yesterday, and I said, "Here's one, here's two." The one that ended it... [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, a good lawyer friend of ours was here in Turkey, and a lawyer of the President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0118par0173	Mr. Mahmut, is your relationship with Mr. Mahmut really going on?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0119par0174	Did you cry or not?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0113par0175	And he knows very well, Article 37...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0119par0176	Mr. Tanal, did you cry or not?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0113par0177	The 37th article of the Turkish Penal Code states that any contribution and assistance is an accomplice, an accomplice. Now, are you an accomplice or not? Put his hand on your conscience, our lawyer friend.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0120par0178	Oh, come on, don't give me any words.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0119par0179	Mr. Tanal, did you cry or not?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0113par0180	I mean, look, it's the last joke of Article 37 of this.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0119par0181	Did you cry or not, Mr. Tanal?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0113par0182	I don't doubt my master's jurisprudence, it's better if he takes it from the law and tells it.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0121par0183	We've got work to do, so let's get out of here.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0113par0184	Look, Article 37 of the Penal Code...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0122par0185	Mr. President, we're asking if you've been crying.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0113par0186	The statute of limitations has been talking about the statute of limitations for 37 years. After all...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0123par0187	Open your eyes to crying!
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0113par0188	Whose money did you open the factory with? Come on, tell me about the opening money for that factory. Do you understand?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0123par0189	Let's be clear about that.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0113par0190	Whose support did you open those factories with?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0123par0191	Did you cry or not?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0113par0192	Who did you buy from? Who supported you in that factory of yours? What's your economic contribution? This is all... you're cooperating with them.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0124par0193	Please, let's not pick on him, let's not mess with him.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0113par0194	Thank you. My respects.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0125par0197	Mr. President, for the record.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0126par0198	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0127par0199	One second, I'm listening to Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0125par0200	Mr. President, we asked a very clear question. Whether she cried or not.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0128par0201	Who took his property, and was selling his property. Who's selling your stuff? Where do you sell your goods?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0125par0202	Mr. President, I used a phrase called teardrops. I said, "Who shed tears?" I said those who shed tears cannot understand it. But, Mr. Tanal, this doesn't explain the tears. Did she cry or not? Let him say it. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0129par0204	Yes, Mr. Yasar?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0130par0205	There was an individual bullying. With whose money did you open the factory? You opened it with a letter. He said.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0129par0206	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0131par0207	He didn't give a name. It was taken over. So...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0129par0208	Please don't challenge a new taunt.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0132par0210	So, if we can make a joke without lowering our sense of humor to a certain level, there's an average level of intelligence in this House, and I'm going to try to say something above that level as much as possible. One: Yes, there's a factory my family built 25 years ago, and in this factory, there's not a penny in it, there's not a penny in it, there's no CHP, there's no PKK, there's no PKK, there's nothing, it's just a family organization.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0133par0212	And how do you use CHP in the same sentence?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0132par0213	I think it's inept to stand up here and execute such personal dignity with cheap polemics, and I think it's necessary to answer that, because these things are multiplying. Only our friend Mehmet Mush asked if you cried. He said other things instead of coming in here and saying that he didn't cry or cry. Second: I ask Mr. Tanal. I ask him a very clear question, and my opinion is that he had a close relationship with Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0134par0216	Oh, my God! Oh, my God!
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0132par0217	I'm saying I saw it, so I don't know about the organic bond. Is this relationship really going on or has it been cut off? Was he in a financial relationship? I don't know, I don't know, but what I've seen in the media, what I've seen in public, is that he was obviously in a close relationship, and I thought he might even have an organic connection, but I'm not in the position to claim that there is one.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0135par0218	Pool media, pool media!
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0132par0219	If you are also reading the newspaper, watching television, you are able to see all of this. Third: As I understand it, the CHP has no obligation to marry in this new bill, so there is no need for alarm. We have an obligation to respect the rights and freedoms of citizens who want to marry in the kitchen.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0136par0221	You're dividing society, Mr. orator, you're dividing it, you're dividing it.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0132par0222	We have to respect the rights and freedom of citizens. As a parliament, our main goal as a representative of national will is to expand the freedom of the citizen, the citizen, or else, to point everyone in a certain direction, you will get married here. I'm defending the freedom of the People's Republican Party (CHP) people, who do not have to marry in the kitchen. I'll be there to fight this, I promise.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0136par0224	You're interrupting, you're interrupting.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0137par0225	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0138par0226	Mr. Tanal, please let's finish.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0137par0227	Now that he's made a clear and clear taunt, I beg of you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0138par0228	Okay, I get it, but when you're talking, please state your point before you accuse anyone else or challenge the new tease. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0137par0230	Thank you for your sensitivity. Look, while I'm talking, our dear friend is talking out of there. In fact, why did we change this Civil Code? To stop this kind of bullying. Under your normal circumstances...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0138par0232	Well, if you guys don't pick on each other, that's fine. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0137par0234	I was just talking about my problem, my point, so it wouldn't have been an argument if it hadn't been for me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0139par0235	Mr. Tanal, explain all the people.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0138par0236	Please don't let us make a new taunt. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0140par0239	Dear President, dear MPs, dear friends, you have a natural connection with the........... I've never been married from a family -- a family that I married -- a revolutionary family -- nor has my child married from a family that's not from a family that's not from my daughter-in-law, nor has my son-in-law been married from a son-in-law.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0141par0241	She just cries!
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0142par0242	If you're not interested, why are you crying?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0140par0243	So you're going to say, who's connected to.....? Look, why don't you just finish laughing here from "CHP" and tell me why you didn't finish it? Al, that saved the laughing AK PARTY. Look, see? Who did? Who said finish it?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0143par0244	Who saved him?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0140par0245	Two: can you show me a picture of myself? I don't know the way to America yet. I haven't left yet. Who's gone? You're gone.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0144par0246	There's one right here. Mr. Tanal, look, the bank is in front of Asia.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0140par0247	I mean, I'm sorry, I didn't want to show this to your president, but could you show him a picture of me or a picture of my president?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0144par0249	Look, it's your picture.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0140par0250	I mean, I'm sorry, I wouldn't say that to the President, but you're bringing it to that stage yourself. Three: look, there's...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0145par0252	Look, there's one over there.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0146par0253	Mr. Tanal, look, it's right here.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0140par0254	Dear President, look, you're the president of the group, you're the president, you're the primary school leaver, you're always talking like the president. I mean, I'm sorry, this isn't the presidential style for the AK PARTY group.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0146par0255	Look, it's right here.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0140par0256	What's this? In 2004, the decision of the National Security Council says to end the term. It was signed by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan at the time. You're not finished, my friend.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0147par0257	Don't beat around the bush. Why did you cry? Why did you cry?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0140par0258	You're the ones who nurtured, brought him up, made him an inn bath, raised the grooms, brought up the brides, not us, my friend. You can't find a son-in-law in CHP, you can't find a bride in CHP.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0147par0261	Yeah, that's why you cried.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0140par0262	I don't want to take it all personally, but it's not a good thing for you to come here. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0148par0265	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0149par0266	Mr. President, Mr. Tanal would like to demonstrate that we're on an elementary school leave...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0148par0267	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0150par0268	He said, "It's possible."
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0151par0269	All of Tanal's words are true.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0148par0270	Let's finish this polemic, guys.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0152par0272	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're doing our duty. I asked you a clear question here, whether you cried or not. He's going around, he's going around. He's showing pictures from there. I showed him a picture of myself, and this Bank was one of those who performed there during the closing of Asia. I'm asking you to give me an answer. There's no answer to that.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0153par0273	Why doesn't he show his opening?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0154par0274	Why didn't you show me your opening, Mr. Mush?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0152par0275	Later... look, Mr. Özdish, you'll be in charge of the House, stay calm.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0155par0276	At the opening.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0152par0277	He later uses this expression: After asking him this question, he talks about elementary school leave. Look, Mr. Tanal, a friend of yours has done this before, and I didn't want to answer, but there's a level to this House, we're all doing our duty. Not in the age of reason, but in the beginning. I absolutely cannot accept the use of inadvertent testimony here.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0156par0278	Invite him to a clean language, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0152par0279	I can never accept you targeting my person. Look, you can't go past the AK PARTY even on elementary school leave, let alone primary school leave, your level and capacity won't allow it, they won't take you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0157par0280	It's not a permit, it's a play! It's the truth.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0152par0281	Stop dealing with personality and say what you have to say politically. Answer the questions we've asked you. If you have no answers, do not occupy the bench in vain. If you have a glass house, don't throw stones at other people's houses, or stones will come to your house, remember that. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0158par0284	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0159par0285	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0158par0286	Mr. Tanal, we're closing this discussion. So the same phrases came back and went back and forth a few times.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0159par0287	It won't be the same statement, Mr. President, it won't be the same. I'm sorry, I mean, look, I didn't want it to come to this level.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0158par0288	For the record, if you have one. I'm closing this discussion. Look, we've had a little bit of a discussion about the procedure, and we've gone over this in a manner of speaking, and it's going through a lot of polymics. Thank you, Mr. Tanal, for telling me. Please, I beg you, let's get this over with. Tell him to file a report.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0159par0289	Dear President, dear lawmakers, Bank, I'm not the one who opened Asia, I'm not the one who cut the ribbon. I'm not the one who gave these licenses.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0160par0290	Okay.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0159par0291	I'm not the political authority that gives you the OGS passes on the bridges.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0160par0292	They're not asking what you did, they're asking what you did.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0159par0293	You're from Adıyaman, I'm from Şanlıurfa, but my late parents are from Adıyaman. We used to have mountain cakes back home. What would hunters do, Mr. President? Since it's your experience... they'd go and put one of the pet cakes in a nice place, and when he squealed, the wildlings would come and hunt him down. Now, Bank, this power that opens Asia, this power that cuts the ribbon, all of the citizens who answer there are terrorists, and none of the people who let it open are terrorists.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0161par0294	Well, it's on the record.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0159par0295	I'm sorry. So what does that mean, Mr. President? It means that he doesn't ambush a citizen of the state. The government shouldn't ambush. So...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0161par0296	Mr. Tanal, yes, it's on the record.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0159par0297	Ending, last sentence. I mean, power shouldn't ambush innocent citizens, just like the hunter ambushes the bakery. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0162par0303	The second promise in favour of my conviction belongs to Mr. Mehmet Doğan Kubbat. Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0163par0306	My dear President, I have made a commitment to express my opinion in favour of the position of the President in a formal meeting. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Vice President of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Special, has voiced an objection to a procedure that states that all of which we are discussing is in violation of the Constitution, that this should be extradited to the Commission, that the talks cannot continue, but the issue has gone a little off course. The president's office has declared that he has no authority. This is a righteous attitude. More or less four procedures have been discussed in this regard. Therefore, there is no procedure for the office of the presidency to perform in this regard. Essentially, dear friends, a political party group does not have the authority to make such a request according to the Internal Charter. Dear friends, a bill of law or proposal is clearly regulated in the Civil Code in the process of legalisation of how to conduct a constitutional regulation. In Article 67 of the Civil Code, the office examines the drafts and proposals that have come to him. Two: The commissions continue to negotiate, if they find that the laws and proposals that have come to them in Article 38 of the Civil Code are in violation of the Constitution and the spirit of the Constitution, whether it is in violation or not. Again, in the General Assembly phase, we are also conducting a constitutional examination of compliance with the Constitution. How do we do this? The 87th article makes an exception in the 87th article, saying "There is no other law in the law," although the 87th article states that the bill will be submitted to a motion to change all or all of its articles. According to Article 88 of the Civil Code, the authority to request the return of a bill or proposal to the commission is solely the commission and the government, and such authority is currently not used. Our opposition parties may also submit an anti-constitutional motion on the 6th article and other clauses they claim to be contrary to the Constitution, which, according to Article 84, will be considered as a priority. That's where all the debates about the foundation have been made. So, when it comes down to it, our lawmakers will issue anti-controversies motions, where they will discuss those motions, where they will object to the Constitution, where the General Assembly will make a decision. Which, in a moment, the General Assembly will decide to vote all of them, and if he sees these allegations seriously, if he finds out that the bill is contrary to the Constitution, he will reject all of the provisions of this bill. Such an inspection would still be carried out by the General Assembly. Therefore, the position of the office of the president is in order. With these feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0164par0313	Thank you, Mr. Kubat. Mr. Special, you've entered the system. According to 60, here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0165par0318	Mr. President, thank you. When Mr. Nurettin, our esteemed Malatian MP, was just talking about an institution founded by his own family, he said, "There's no capital in it." He said, "There's no name in the name of every terrorist organization he's ever known and, for some reason, I guess -- I hope so, and I hope so. There's no conceivably. There's no People's Party." A valuable MP from the Justice and Development Party did something similar. When we said to the minister of budget talks who was here that day, do you agree? The minister said, "I don't mind that the main opposition party in Turkey can be called like this." My goal is not to expose a contradiction in the AKP. So, what do you say to Mr. Secretary? I'm not saying that this MP's classicization? But I'd like to remind you that this should never be done again, that it's hurtful, and that if there's a political profit in this, it's going to be a damage to the negative household.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0164par0320	Thank you. Second and final speaker against my conviction, Mr. Flitz Kerestecioğlu. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0166par0326	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, it may be true that this House has an average level of intelligence, but I'm not really sure if it has an average level of conscience. Because this law is about women the most, but I don't really understand how this argument got to these points again, how it turned out to be a man's quarrel. And I actually want to be a voice in the voice of women who were forced into marriage at that young age, and so I want to express their claims of violation of the Constitution. Now, this extraordinary law proposal, which allows the mufti to marry, can't be outlawed in this way by being abducted from the public in the state of emergency. It is against the Constitution of the 7th Amendment, which gives the authority to law on behalf of the nation to bring a law that endangers women's civil rights, abandons children's marriages, reduces them, leads to unsupervisedness, and raises it in a time when any opposition is suppressed in the most severe way. You don't have the right to take this law into custody, by attacking women who don't ask women, by covering your ears with their voices, and by attacking women who express their objections with a press release. You can take it out with your grain, but it won't be as legitimate as many other laws have been before. According to Article 10 of the Constitution, each person is equal to the law, without distinction, with language, religion, race, sect, gender, and so on. What's going on now? Muslim citizens, Christian citizens, believers, non-believers are being separated by government hands. However, according to the laws brought in by the ECHR, the difference between treatment among individuals is contrary to both the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights, which prohibits discrimination. This law violates civil law and Article 2 of the Constitution, which defines the Republic of Turkey as a secular legal state. The Mufti is not, as they say, an officer of the religion, who represents the religion, and a minister of the religion who represents the religion. The European Court of Human Rights stated that after applying for the Welfare Party, it would be against the human rights agreement to bring separate laws to the Alevis, Nusairis, Christians, Jews, Bahai. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I want time, too.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0167par0331	Now, for a minute... we've been like this before, we've agreed on this, one by one... it's only for this procedure debate, and they won't have any extensions from now on. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0166par0333	Multi-legalism leads to the transfer of the government's duty to protect rights and freedoms to institutions that have made many segregated statements against women such as Religion. Look, today, an understanding is being imposed on society, which is going to send three-year-olds to pedophile schools. The authority to marry the imams is an important part of the project to design society according to AKP's own understanding. Don't try to drag society into a religious, non-religious segregation. The security of the people's faith, of their freedom of religion, is that the state will withdraw its hand from the citizen's religion. Yes, in Article 41, the Constitution mentions taking the necessary measures to protect children, but today there is a serious problem in Turkey, such as marriage at a child's age, and unfortunately, official imams are having an imam wedding for under 18-year-old girls. We say that this law, which threatens women's rights, such as divorce, inheritance, and property sharing, is against the Constitution and should not be voted today. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0168par0338	Thank you. Congressmans, I have stated at the beginning of my statement that there should not be even an argument about the procedure, because what we're doing here, completely following procedure, is nothing more than carrying out an issue that comes to the attention of the General Assembly's decision. Now, I would like to briefly renegotiate our presidency's view of this: The bill, which was given to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in accordance with the Constitution and the Civil Code provisions, was originally transferred by our presidency to the Interior Commission and was subject to the report by the Commission. According to Article 38 of the Civil Code, the commissions are obliged to first examine whether the bill and proposals referred to them are against the text and spirit of the Constitution. The Commission has to reject the bill, which it considers unconstitutional, before it becomes subject to its clauses. The Interior Commission did not view the bill as unconstitutional, so it has made its report to our presidency and has taken its place on our bill agenda. The General Assembly also has the authority to reject the adoption of claims against the Constitution after its talks on all of them. Again, the motions for rejection are voted before other motions, on the grounds that a specific clause of the bill is contrary to the Constitution during the meeting of the General Assembly, according to Article 84 of the Civil Code. As you can see, there are many rules that allow a bill to be rejected either on the commission or on the General Assembly in case it is considered unconstitutional. On this occasion, I hereby announce my decision to continue my attitude. There's no change in my attitude. We continue negotiations, negotiations, from where we left off. We started talking about the whole bill. The second word for the groups belongs to İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0169par0356	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable MPs, the women came here and said, "Mr. Congressman, we want an equal and free life." They explained why they opposed it, and they sent this letter to every member of parliament. Once again, I salute their struggle. I'd like to start by conciliating once again to the families of our citizens who lost their lives in the mine cave in Şırnak. Yes, we have a jet-speed from the Interior Commission to the subcommittee, which is almost full of men, then back to the Interior Commission, then back to Parliament. The amendment to this bag with the law is to allow the mufti to marry. Women have been telling each and every one of you on the street, on social media today, and on the squares and on the Capitol, as I've just told you. But I think all lawmakers from the AK PARTY are entitled to this law. Therefore, other than Mr. Naci Bostanci and a few friends, I don't think anyone needs to listen to this. I mean, we're talking about a law that's almost more than half of this country, but we get this view every time. In fact, on behalf of this House, I regret it and find it unacceptable. You remember, Mr. Fatma Betül Sayan Kaya, Minister of Family and Social Policy, said, "Why should an imam have a wedding?" Nevertheless, the bill was expanded to allow the mufti to pass on their authority to imams and preachers. This is not a small detail; here, the statement of the inspectors in the bill has been changed to... so the imams and ministers will actually be able to perform the wedding. On the basis of this expression, we are afraid that we can't meet all the demands of those who live in small towns and want a mufti wedding. The vast city limits in the mufti's area of responsibility will be used as an excuse for transportation and will open the way for marriage to imams. So even though the bill is referred to as the law of staff, it gives imams, preachers, mufti the right to marry. Either Fatma Betül Sayan Kaya is really misinformation the public on purpose, or, sadly, she has no savings in a bill that affects women's lives so deeply. Who's saving money? Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on Friday that the law will be passed whether you want it or not. Again, unfortunately, it appears that this law came from above with instructions. It is intended by this law to create a system where religion dominates every aspect of life, which has been tried to be implemented since 4+4+4. Let's see what's been done to build this system and what damage it's done. At age 3, the children were sentenced to a school of minors where they were subjected to heavy religious education. Foundations such as the Ensar Foundation have been assigned to raise a religious and vindictive generation. All of this was done so crudely, so fast that children were abused in unsupervised institutions. The state ministry in charge of women and families was renamed the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. The Women's Status General Directorate, the only official mechanism tasked with producing policies for strengthening women-men's equality, has been turned into an ineffective and unauthorized unit under the Ministry. The main cause of violence against women is inequality between men and women. Although the Istanbul Convention, which Turkey signed, was drawn in six thick letters, the idea of equality between men and women was deliberately destroyed, and an abstract family concept was imposed on every woman. Religious answers to women's problems have been sought. Through religious protocols, family education was given, training that ignored violence against women under the name of family counselling. They were asked to have three or five children without being observed what women want in life. Young people who have never had the chance to be encouraged by science in their entire lives have been encouraged to marry early. The abortion ban has been tried. In many judicial decisions, women's murders have increased since male violence has been deemed legitimate and the law has not been enforced. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy was so busy with social benefits, 95% of the budget, that women continued to be killed even after applying for prosecution. According to reports from local and national newspapers, news sites and agencies, men killed at least 28 women in September, raped seven women, harassed 29 women, sexually abused 22 girls and injured 28 women. Dear friends, unfortunately, an institution that clearly states that it does not believe in the equality of men and women by this law will be given a very serious authority that prompts women not to get divorced all the time. It was never considered the consequences of the expansion of power. Weddinging the imams means going outside civil law, and we're afraid that multi-laws are being taken a step forward. If that happens, the next step would be to impose Islamic law and misreadings, endangering women's civil rights. Perhaps the next step is to discuss the transfer of some areas of law into Islamic law. Therefore, we feel that many rights for women to share with civil law are at stake, such as divorce. That's exactly why we know very well that every woman of the world is against this bill, and even some conservative women writers have made it very clear. Even conservative women within the AKP are resisting the mufti wedding because they are aware of the difficulties the law will bring. Because women, Muslim women, also know the struggle they started during the Ottoman period on issues such as property sharing, divorce. As you know, women are constantly told that certain rights are given from above, so our struggle is tried to be pushed under the mat. In fact, it's from not reading history or reading too much official history. In the Ottoman era, both Muslim and Armenian women had been making magazines about women's problems, fighting for education, preventing multiple marriages, having more say in their congregations. Like Hayganush Mark, Nezihe Muhiddin, there were many women who fought actively in the women's movement at that time. In the beginning of the 20th century, women received partial civil rights, with the contribution of the legal freedom and equality environment in the Ottoman Empire. The minimum age for marriage has been appointed. They have the right to appeal to multiple marriages and the right to divorce. Later, this civilized law was put back on the shelf, but along with the republic, it was revised in 1926. As a result of women's struggles, they gained civil rights with this power. The Muslim who knows this history, Christian or not, will not approve this law on religious grounds. The women's rights struggle did not end with the acceptance of the Civil Law, since there were still male dominant substances in the Civil Law. In 1990, after a long struggle, we cancelled the law clause linking the woman's work to the husband's permission. Later, in 2002, the head of the family got up with changes in the Civil Law. Despite the lack of women's rights in custody, the changes after that have now been shared equally, and there are many things that I can't count here -- since the process won't be enough -- between women and men, for example, in marriage. In 2005, the substances related to sexual crimes changed, and in 2005, there were significant gains in the change in the Turkish Penal Code, and there was an important clause, the title, which was called against common morality and propriety, and in the crimes against women, we said: "No, this is not about common decency, nor is it about women; it's about the person who is being raped, whether it's about a boy or a man." Now, after all this struggle, if his eyes are not turned around and closed in power relations, who can give up the Ottomans from the young republic and the rights that women are fighting for today? None of us want to give that up. Dear friends, in secular states, the state does not interfere with the religious freedom of citizens, but at the same time, public resources cannot be used to support any religion; religion cannot be governed by the state's hand, nor should it ever be the state's religion. The use of public resources for religious education in any educational institution in a secular country leads to scandals, and courts condemn this practice immediately, whereas one belief is revealed in Turkey, which is brought forward. The annual budget of diabetes is $6.8 billion. That's not enough, he's asking the government for an additional budget. It's not enough, it's signing protocols with various ministries, expanding its field of influence. So religion is also a religious marriage in Turkey. Unlike Western countries, it has become a state religion. Erdogan's church is doing it in the west. I'd like to respond to his claim. In the United States, almost every state and most European countries can't have a wedding ceremony without presenting a formal document to the church. In church, symbolically, people can get married. It's not only these that are at fault with giving marriage powers to the mufti, and with these segregations, of course. Stop weddinging imams, mufti, in a country where child abuse is common, such as Turkey, and we fear ending imam weddings at an early age, as the minister suggested, and the second wife, will lead to increased marriages at a child's age. It is also expressed in a letter sent to lawmakers by women against the bill. Do you guys know that according to Hacettepe University Institute for Population Studies's 2014 research sponsored Ministry of Family and Social Policy, most of the imam weddings of children under the age of 18 are being performed by official imams? So the government official imams are already involved in the crime. This is very clear data, and these are the results of the research conducted by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. Now, has he not read this research or been aware of its consequences? If so, why is it that instead of solving this burning problem in society, the imams are being given more authority and more children's lives are being ruined, more children's lives are at risk? Dear friends, the arrangement of the wedding by religious officials, especially in small places, will lead religious leaders -- women -- to take too much initiative, and what will result in their taking such initiative? As I have just said in that study, if there are many official imams who have married under 18-year-old girls in the current situation, unfortunately, giving the imams this authority will result in the protection of the abuser, the rapist, if necessary, the imam wedding, and the closure of the incident. Moreover, if given that authority, a new arrangement, regulations, and regulations will be required. We don't know how to regulate this regulation, and we don't know what will be brought to this regulation right now, and it's going to lead to a serious lack of supervision, I'm afraid. This change has no effect on preventing multiple marriages. Men either choose to marry their daughters or to marry them more than once. Thus, whether the official marriage is performed or not, the men will continue to perform it, not officially, but again. With the Constitutional Court's decision in 2015, as you know, it is not a crime to have a religious marriage without an official marriage, but in a way, it has been a matter of time before such marriages have been opened through the judiciary. Yes, this bill also, we're afraid, will serve to further expand the existing polarization of society. Like families who send their children to imam-gap high schools, schools, or pedophile schools because they can't find a school to send them to, women will now have to commit their marriages because they are going to have an official marriage. Because of the pressure of the neighborhood, many women will feel that they have more control over religion, whether they want to or not. There will also be new polarisations in the society, such as the marriage of the governor and the marriage of the husband. Yes, the United Nations country's team of Turkey also has some views on the Population Services Act. This is one of the most dangerous, important substances, especially about verbal reporting. The UN country's team of Turkey in particular has expressed an opinion regarding the part of the bill to be given a verbal notification after the birth. Now, here's the arrangement, in fact, in the new arrangement, there's already a verbal notification in the old arrangement, so there are so many wars, migrations around the world, of course, that births may not be subject only to written notifications, but they can be made verbal notifications. However, this oral notification is now, in fact, referred to as a improvement by the family physicians under the direction of the head of the property. Now, this is not a improvement, my friends. I don't need the owner's instructions on the property. The oral notification is already risky because, in fact, at a young age, for example, if there is a multi-married marriage that is being asked to keep hidden, it will easily allow that child to be registered on top of another woman, and the master of property will not know about it, and the family physician will not know about it. Therefore, where there is a verbal notification, control is weak, so in no way should it be investigated without further instructions, etc. Likewise, the United Nations report says that the absence of research is at risk of making it possible for the population to register as a result of pregnancy, childbirth, sandbags, multiple marriages, pregnancies and rape. Yeah, one last thing, as I said, is that the general moral criterion for the marriage of refugees... that's the morality of men, my friends. The general moral criterion is just a criterion for women. We've fought for years to get this thing up. It's a completely subjective, non-compatible concept. Yes, lastly, I'd like to say that even though they were killed like the Mirabal brothers, even though they were actually put in a mental hospital like Nezihe Muhiddin, women don't want to give up the fight. They will not allow any political power to take away their civil rights. I don't think we should lose hope. Even if this law passes today, our struggle will continue, and then we'll try to get it annulled. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0170par0378	Thank you. The third word on behalf of the groups belongs to İzmir MP Murat Ministry of Turkey on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0171par0382	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the Law to Change Some Laws. Dear friends, first and foremost, I would like to point out that the Interior Commission's approach to the Republican People's Party member's Bill on the Commission is constructive. I'm not just saying this about the bill, our approach to all the bills that come to the commission is constructive, we want a full settlement, we want a law, and we'll set up all the work on it. But I can't say that our approach was fully reciprocal on the commission. Let me explain this to you: Call to the commission is a rule that if there's no emergency, it's two days in advance. However, the call to our commission regarding this bill was sent to the e-mail addresses on the afternoon of October 1st, when Parliament's legislative activity was just a ceremony, which was distributed to our rooms on Monday, when the legislative activity was not held, and it began to be discussed on Tuesday. Again, our proposals for the quality of legislation during the Commission talks have not been taken into account. We said, "The issue is first to be sent to the Women's Equality Commission, the Constitutional Commission in respect of our claim against the Constitution, and again to the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission in order for the marriage to be a civil legal arrangement." We said that the mature opinions of these commissions would have to come to a full consensus in the subcommittee, but we couldn't agree on that either. Each one of them is on the agenda of the Internal Affairs Commission, with 323 drafts and proposals on the country's very important problems, all of which have been skipped out and have come to the Commission first. According to the Civil Code, our claim to violation of the Constitution, which should first be examined, has not been considered, nor has there been a vote on it. In this arrangement, considered a phase of the secular republic's liquidation strategy, we think that law has been completely ignored. Dear friends, we don't approve of the timing of this arrangement coming to the agenda of Congress. In the two legislatures of the Parliament in the 26th century, the acts of terrorism, which led to the martyrdom of many of our civilian and military citizens, have faced a coup attempt. Some of the acts of terrorism took place in Ankara, the capital of our country, very near the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We just got an anniversary of the October 10th Gar massacre a week ago. Our country has suffered a coup attempt, our Veteran Assembly has been bombed. I'm not talking about the four million Syrians who have escaped from our crisis with neighbouring countries, near us, the bloody slaughter in the Middle East, war, harassment, rape, and shelter in our country. Dear friends, in a very sensitive geography, Turkey is having perhaps the most difficult time in the history of the republic in both domestic and external security. So, who's responsible for this? In favor of the territorial integrity of the neighbours, peace in yurta, peace in the world. Is it Ataturk Turkey, an island of stability in the region, or AKP power seeking adventure with its new Ottoman dreams? That's what we express every day. Everyone's going to look for the missing in their own way. But, dear friends, what are we talking about when Turkey is so important to its well-being? Should we give the mufti permission to marry or not? Guys, this is what people are worried about, for God's sake. In our country, the public's bank debt has increased 63 times in 14 years, one out of four young people are unemployed, the farmers are leaving their land, and the amount of agricultural land we're operating has been reduced by 4.5 million hectares. So what are we talking about? Do we or do we not give the mufti permission to marry? The educational system that keeps turning into a puzzle board has ruined all the students and their families. Which is, I'm one of those parents, and I have a 12-year-old son, who's going to be in TEOG next year, and we don't know what's going to happen, what's going to happen next. According to UNICEF, we are 41st among the 41st countries in the training ranking. Our kids don't understand what you're reading, according to the PISA criteria. We have 143,000 girls who weren't sent to school in 2015-2016. So what are we talking about? Should we give the mufti permission to marry or not? In the past 15 years, divorces have increased by 38 per cent, prostitution has increased 790 per cent, child sexual abuse has increased by 434 per cent, sexual abuse has increased by 449 per cent, and drug addiction has increased by 678 per cent. So what are we talking about? Should we give the mufti permission to marry or not? In our country, the number of juvenile prisoners has increased five times in five years, 5,734 women's deaths from 2002-2016, 482,000 girls have been forced into our country in the last decade, journalists arrested, MPs arrested. So what are we talking about? Do we or do we not give the mufti permission to marry? In the Aegean Sea, our islands have been occupied by Greece, Mehmetçik Azez, Cerablus, Idlib, Al Rai, each day we receive news that our son is a martyr. In addition to all these important problems, Turkey, the Parliament, which needs to address all these problems, has to discuss giving marriage power to the county and county mufti, first means disrespecting our martyrs and their saintly memory, and turning its back on the problems of the nation. Dear friends, we have contributed to many of the provisions of this bill. We've made some changes to our parliamentary friends from the ruling and opposition party that supports our constructive approach. Unfortunately, however, the provisions of this bill regarding the electronic state that we have favoured were under the shadow of the 6th article, which gave these muftus the right to marry. I ask, what is the problem with the marriage of people in our country, where there are around 600,000 weddings a year? Are there wedding lines in front of the municipalities? The number of village chiefs isn't enough? There's a sociological problem with this in the country, a bleeding wound? Of course not. Why did this bill come to Parliament when there were no wedding lines in the country, and there was no obstacle to the religious marriage of the seeker? This arrangement is a means to create artificial agendas by removing citizens from the burning agenda of the country, and on the other hand, the religiousisation of society in all areas in our country is part of the strategy. An imam in the army, an imam in the school, an imam in the hospital, an imam in civil defense, and now an imam in the marriage. That attitude is to take off your conservative Democrat shirt and put on your political Islamist shirt, dear friends. Mr. AKP President has been saying a word of His Majesty Hajji Bektas in his speech in the last few days, saying: "Let us be one, let us be big, let us be alive." On the other hand, what does he say about the reactions in different and broad parts of society: "It will pass whether you want it or not," he says. Isn't that to replace a government official before the law's out? I'm not talking about Master Hodja. You'll owe me one. When we were one and one, and we were big, and we were alive? What happened to common sense, solidarity? Whatever I say, I say the last word, common sense with understanding? Will there be democracy in this country, dear friends, let alone common sense? If the President of the AKP, without voting in Parliament, without arguing with his power, without discussing it in Parliament, explains the outcome of this matter, what value do you have, dear friends, as MPs? Isn't that putting up a mortgage on the will of the High Council? When this bill is passed, citizens will be separated as those who married with a religious ceremony, and those who married with an official wedding ceremony, and those who married with the community will be divided into members of the court. Will there be no discussion between married couples, whether we should have a marriage or a city wedding before marriage? Another problem will be among our fellow citizens with different beliefs. According to the Constitution, everyone is equal to the law, regardless of language, race, color, gender, political thought, philosophy, religion, sect, and so on. So, if our citizens of Alevi, Christians, Jews, Ezidi, or citizens of our community, or citizens of our other sects, or citizens of Hanefith, wish to exercise this right in front of their own mosques, the priests, the rabbis, the priests, the Shafii? Dear friends, it is against the Constitution's principle that the clergy be given the authority to marry. Because secularism is the security of all rights and freedoms, especially religion and freedom of conscience, the basis of equality, the rule of religion of the world and state, the rule of law, not in social life, but in the way of the present needs of the world and of the state, the rule of law, the way science and the mind are organized according to the present needs of civilized life. What are you guys doing here? On the contrary, you make the state religious in every field from education to marriage. Mr. Minister said in the Commission that the mufti would act as a marriage officer, and would not perform a religious wedding. Mr. AKP, the deputy leader of the group said the same thing: this is going to be an official wedding. You know who's telling the truth? Mr. President says so. What's he saying? In the faith of Muslims, it is necessary to take this step. I thought you said it wasn't a religious wedding. Allowing the mufti to marry is a formalisation of the public language's marriage, friends, in simple terms. The Imam wedding, the church wedding, or the wedding of another religion, is meant by religious rituals and is in the presence of a man of the cloth. In other words, it means that those who are to be married will express reconciliation in front of a man of the cloth and make mutual promises. It covers the spiritual and conscientious world of man. Religious marriage is made to seek God's blessing and help, whereas marriage is an earthly phenomenon, independent of the individual's religion, language, and race. An official marriage has to be a non-religious area, not religious, because it involves a vast legal area, from inheritance to divorce, property to family law; it means that people's reconciliation, not only trust and commitment to each other, but their rights and responsibilities to each other are guaranteed by the state; it also guarantees their children, age, divorce, wealth, and heritage. In addition, a marriage relationship is the protection of the weak. In societies like us, it's always the woman who's weak, dear friends. So, basically, the imam wedding and the formal wedding are completely different. An official marriage is way beyond an imam wedding. It's not just changing people who are going to have a wedding and replacing the municipality with mufti. Even churches in the West, which have been established for 2,000 years, are unable to bear the burden. That's why Protestants have passed on this right from their own selves to the government. In Europe, priests marry in the church. Is there a problem with us when the mufti are killed? Because the concept of the church includes Christian religion and identity, which is institutional, not just the church. There's a clergy class, and it's kind of institutionalized like a government. Churches keep records of everything from birth. In our country, however, there is no such institution. Dear friends, religious leaders do not marry in France, a secular state in Europe. In Germany, there is a wedding in Catholic churches, which is not officially accepted as a wedding. The Protestant Church does not exercise its rights. In England, which recognises the religious marriage as an official marriage, it is equally known for its beliefs.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0172par0405	And they're not officers.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0171par0406	So, not only is the Church of Anglican there officially the English, but the Buddhist priest is also having a wedding, both his grandfather and the imam are having a wedding. He has granted the right to a religious marriage to all faiths, England, but we can't think of all these comparisons independently of our own country. The right to choose and be elected by the Civil Law, which is part of the Republic of Turkey's revolutions, and the right to be married in Europe, before many countries, has been adopted in our country. The official marriage does not prevent our citizens from having a religious marriage to be blessed in accordance with their own beliefs and rituals. According to TİK statistics, 85.9 per cent of our citizens in our country also perform religious weddings after the official wedding, so there is no problem, there is no obstacle in our country. Dear MPs, it must be noted that giving the authority to marry the county and county mufti is a sign that the Turkish legislature, which has begun with Tanzimat, which is contrary to the progress line of the ongoing Turkish legislature movement with the Republic, has not gone forward on the path of civilization, but is a sign that Turkey is trying to undermine the laws of revolution, which aim to preserve the secularity of the Republic of Turkey, and to pierce the Constitution. It is also a violation of the Civil Law, which began in 1926 and opened the way for the Turkish woman to become equal in public life with men. Because the official marriage is among the laws of the Republic of the Constitution, which are protected by Article 174. In the same article, it is also considered who can perform a formal marriage. The marriage contract, as in the Civil Law, will be performed in front of the marriage officer. The duties of the mufti to be made as a marriage officer are limited to the religious area. According to Dianetworks Act 633, il and borough muftüs represent the President of Religious Affairs in their districts, manages religious services, and regulates and supervises the services of religious officials. Hence, the descriptions of the duties of the marriage officers and the definitions of the duties of the mufti are completely different. The bill provides the reasons for the matter by facilitating the marriage process of our citizens, making it easier and swifter. As stated by the law, is the marriage proceedings failing, or is there a problem with that? Even if such a need did occur, why were the mufti brought up when a large number of administrative staff could be assigned to appoint the officer? If such a need was necessary, why didn't you keep the Prime Minister's promise on June 28, 2016 to give authority to all chiefs, dear friends? Without answering such and such questions, the clause and reason in the bill will be removed from reality. Dear friends, six of our children have been killed in a week. This bill, given the circumstances of our country, will not benefit the country, on the contrary, contain regulations that will create new divisions, polarizations. It is the duty of the legislature, the lawmakers and the government in the days when all our citizens need unity most, to take a stand that will ensure unity. As a result, the intellectual, contemporary, non-profits, imams, who have no problem with the basic concepts of the republic -- one here, my dear friend Imran Sword, I keep it separate -- has a place above our heads. But isn't insulting women, slandering, most of the so-called clergy, dear friends? Don't we already divide society on the axis of faith again? Doesn't that hurt religion the most? We say that Gannushi, the leader of the Muslim brothers of Tunisia, wants to separate religious and political activities, which will be good for religion, and it will be good for politicians, because they will no longer be charged with manipulating religion for their interests. It will also be good for religion because he will no longer be a prisoner of politics. Rashid Gannushi, leader of the Muslim Brotherhood in Tunisia, says what we did 80 years ago today. In addition, municipal wedding officials, population officials, most of them are women. In that way, do you have a female mufti, a female religious officer, dear friends? You're handing her over to a group of male sovereigns. As women's organisations in Turkey say, this move is a massacre of women. The most important value of the Republic is that you replace the Civil Law with a law on religion. We are against the Republican People's Party, we will vote against it. In this Veteran Parliament, which is the work of the Republic, I invite you to vote no to the 6th article, especially our women MPs, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0173par0414	Thank you. Amasian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı will speak for the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0174par0418	Mr. President, dear friends, as I listened to the negotiations here, I felt the need to speak for the group in order to contribute to the negotiations, in the intention of clarifying certain issues. There wasn't really a conversation, there was going to be a direct conversation on behalf of the person. The offer here is not an arrangement for the religious field, it is an arrangement for the civilized area; it is a study based on religious muamelata, religious norms, and what do we do? It is not a study of the answer to the question.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0175par0420	Mr. President says it differently.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0174par0421	As you know, that's what our people called the name of the official wedding. Essentially, the term "honey marriage" used here as sort of his counterpart is a civil marriage in the same category. The marriage itself is in the same class as yesterday's municipality's wedding, with all legal results, as it states a link to the parties, the spouses. In that respect, I feel like we should discuss the matter through a religious...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0176par0423	Why mufti?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0174par0424	... I don't think it's right to present with the proposal of the law that there's a special work in the area of Islam, as if there's been an arrangement.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0177par0425	Do you need it? Tell us that.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0174par0426	The second was founded on March 3rd 1924, and when it was established, it was replaced by Shariya and Evkaf's power of attorney. Remember the arguments at that time. It is a rational institution, intended to regulate religious relations with the state in accordance with the basic principles of the republic. The people we call the Court, the people we call the people, are what we call religious needs... a structure that we call religious, but is basically organized to meet people's social demands. Basically, those who are aware of Islamist debates will remember the rich debates that an institutionalized imam is not a place in Islam. When you go to Camima, an imam comes in wearing a dress on his back, where a government official can't normally pray, says some Islamist debates. There comes a man from among them, and he who is the best among them, performs the prayer. But with the government's ability, when you want to organize a religious site within a secular and secular structure, you appoint officials there. So the people we call "Mutti" and "Imam" are the officials of the state, who are responsible for meeting social requirements for the religious field. The foundation of the Ministry of Religious Affairs is essentially intended for this. It has just been said that the president of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, homogene, performs a series of activities to impose a single form of Islam.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0178par0429	Sir, Mr. President speaks differently, if you'll give me an explanation.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0174par0430	So if you miss out on the vast geography of Islam in Turkey, in Turkey, in the period, in general, in the highly vivid debates, in the Islamic geography, and in color and difference, such is the kind of religion that comes out of an automatic, totalitarian structure, and there is nothing like that. It's not just a matter of sects, but with modernisation, there's been a lot of multi-directional debates in Islam about everything. Cemaleddin begins with Efgani. He continues with Abduh. Before that, there is Mehmet Akif Ersoy, there is Selimürreshad. To miss those arguments, to miss today's debates, and it's as if it's called Islam, there's a mathematics in this mathematics, and people may get the wrong impression that the Dianets are shaping religion as a totalitarian structure. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0179par0432	Is there a clergy class in Islam, Hajji? Do you have mufti in Islam?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0174par0433	What we're trying to do here is basically investigate the family institution, legally guarantee the family institution; young marriages, children's marriages, there's no correlation with them. These issues, many children, few children, children's marriage, this kind of marriage, all of which are originally recorded in sociology of societies. If you go to the village, people in the village will have many children; if you go to the city, people will have few children. Their social conditions, economic conditions, the world view gives them a family perspective, and no matter what you say, you can only have a marginal impact on the way they have children. Turkey's population growth rate is dropping. Why is it going down? Because as the city grows, as the population grows from the countryside to the cities, as people move into the city, as the core family sits, people don't have children.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0179par0434	The poorer you get...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0174par0435	It's not about poverty, it's another bet. City people have few children. How many children do rich people have? One, it's not about poverty.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0179par0436	Future anxiety.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0174par0437	Sometimes the poor have 10 or 11 children. So it's not right to present poverty as a parameter.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0179par0438	No, we can't put it into one parameter.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0174par0439	Childhood marriages: No legal arrangement approves of this. In the fifteen years of AK PARTY's power, you cannot show any evidence to confirm it.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0180par0440	There are many, Hajji.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0174par0441	But there's a wound like this in our society. We fought against it, and you fought against it. That's right, it's a very wrong practice, it's not a very wrong job, it's not a child's marriage, and we'd like to thank all the institutions, groups, politics to get rid of it because we all have children -- 12-13 years old -- can we agree to get married? There's no such thing. This arrangement never, in any way, makes it any easier. Making a connection like that is not the right bond.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0181par0442	He's going to split society in two, Mr. Orator. It'll split society in two, for the muflül, for the people who have been killed in the city.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0174par0443	It's more of a language of political propaganda.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0182par0444	Yeah, the President says it, we don't say it.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0174par0445	Dear friends, look, what's critical is that if you look at sociology, human beings evolved from large family to nuclear family, different tribes. Now the core family faces very serious challenges, along with modern life. When you go to Europe, you see, there's no need to go, there are parameters, divorce rates are extremely high. People started making lives on their own, living on their own. Go to New York, where people live alone in Manhattan. The family is certainly a very important unit for growing generations to acquire some social norms as well as for solidarity in society; it is not an institution to be humiliated, despised, thrown aside. In the past, some revolutionary actions have presented this as a state of the bourgeois government. In 1968, remember the youth in France, they formed rural communes, urban communes, and they tried to build structures of voluntary unity, not that kind, against the bourgeois type of family. Did it work out? It didn't work out, it stayed in the country communes, it didn't go one step further. The result is that children grow up, future generations will be integrated with society; certainly those children will win norms, have value, step up their feet, as he said, but at the same time, with a global horizon, their navy is very important and vital, and there is a unique role played by the family unit. What more can the state do in order to investigate the family? This is a way to make it easier for the marriage -- within the fingernail -- to call the wedding a legal outcome. If you have other ways to investigate the family institution, let's consider them together. Because the more modern Turkey is, the more I see, the more divorce rates, the more broken families, and as a result, the more difficult we are to predict today, the more endangered, the more likely new generations are to grow. Feminism, of course, has contributed a significant, meaningful contribution to her struggle as a movement of modernisation, instead of her in public life. We know there's no single version of feminism, and we know that he has a variety of versions of it, from liberal to social democrat to Marxistine, to Islamist feminism, because modern life, when it's equipped with this kind of struggle, of course, that, ideologically, as social norms, it's going to be in a variety of categories, and it's going to be. But what feminist movement, what female movement, whatever more freedom, equality, right-seeking tendency for women in public life, I think should be on the side of it against this institution, which provides a marriage bond that is essentially a legal outcome, because it's in the best interests of these women. Virginia Woolf committed suicide in 1936, over a century ago, when she wrote a self - important book of femininism -- one of the most important books of her life -- showed a challenge to the community in England that humiliated the woman of Victoria from 1839-1901, trying to create a new path for her. When it comes to women's injustices, religious leaders immediately insult women. Friends who have come up with a rhyme in the form of "Greece." In the West, they need to see that it is primarily a case of low development -- non-religion in the East, of sociology and underdevelopedness -- that the woman, along with modernity, is making a move to take new roles in new life, a bold move to take new roles.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0183par0449	Give me an example from the Middle East, Hajji.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0174par0450	Marilyn Yalom, of course, wife of Irvin Yalom, wrote her history. There is no chapter on Islam there, but in Western history, from Rome, it tells how women are humiliated and ignored in America. It's a work of underdevelopedness, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0184par0451	Sir, what does this have to do with the law?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0174par0452	So I'm sorry, with a mind buried in it, it's not right to speak in the name of Islam the insulting language of the person whose name is a bunch of crap, a man of two or three, whose name is a man of the same religion -- who has a traditional way of reasoning in traditional categories. This is also inadvertent to Islam. It's disrespectful to an entire civilization, to a very rich world of thinking. As a result, dear friends, this work is a business that investigates the family in Turkey. It is the work of a secular and secular state regarding a marriage that produces legal results. The people who performed this wedding are government officials, just like the people of the city.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0184par0454	Mr. President, would you invite the minister to return to the matter?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0174par0455	And some of their fears are that children's marriages will thus be opened, and this will be a language that leans on fears in the form of fear, which is not related to this law that has nothing to do with it.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0184par0456	I remind you of the Civil Code, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0185par0457	The Civil Code requires you not to interfere, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0184par0458	That, too. That's the next item.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0186par0459	I assure you, the basis of every highly respected party is also important and valuable in terms of the rational bases of the speakers.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0187par0460	Mr. President, get to the point.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0186par0461	I've been promised a brief statement of these things, thank you very much, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0188par0463	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0189par0464	Teacher, I congratulate you. You talked for 15 minutes, but you didn't tell me why the Mufti should have a wedding. You've connected the Paris Commune to the mufti.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0190par0465	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0188par0466	Mr. Special, I'm opening the system according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0190par0470	Thank you, Mr. President. When Mr. Naci Bostancı came to the bench for a 20-minute period, as usual, we enjoyed listening to him, but he had a deadline, and we looked him in the mouth to tell him what we were expecting. For example, at the meeting of Mr. Bulali Yıldırım group on June 28, 2016, I will give the right of marriage to all the mayors who are in the village chiefs. After the hall, standing ovations, do you now plan to give the authority of the village chiefs in this matter to all the village leaders and make it easier for you to access? Otherwise, that's what you said that day, but as you did today, it's not just a legal arrangement, it's not just a religious arrangement, and it's just an arrangement that depends on the way the service is provided. There's no understanding of the logic of saying it. You're not authorized by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, you're describing a new task to a different agency.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0191par0472	Officers of the government, Mr. Free.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0190par0473	But there are those who are chosen for them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm sorry, one sentence... and I'm not gonna use the whole thing.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0192par0476	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0190par0477	No, based on your approach, Mr. President, the president of your party says that your officer, your city officials, are like officers of Kemal Bey, civil servants of the state. Your city officials do, and mine is...... once we leave the imams to you.... the mayors are not only ours; they are all government officials; but if you're going to take a step here, if the Prime Minister is still the Prime Minister, if he's still in charge, if he's in charge, then you must keep the Prime Minister's word first. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0192par0480	Thank you. Mr. Kerestecioglu, I promise you, according to 60, here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0193par0482	Don't look in the middle... you're usually blocked.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0192par0483	No, if you'll just point... Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0193par0486	Now, first of all, we've been told over and over that there's no need for this, but it's not just the need, of course, because there's a need because it needs to design life another way. As I said in my speech, they are not just any officers, neither are they the servants of the religion, nor are they the servants of another religion. We don't want it to happen, so it's also something that's going to create multiple laws, and we're against it because of that, but there's both religious discrimination here, and it's not all men, but there's gender discrimination, and it's never been looked at in that way. I mean, it's really one type, it's conservative, and more than that, what I'm most concerned about is the loss of control and the pressure of the family, where they can really, really happen to young girls. I have a serious concern for this. We're going to see examples of this, I don't want to see it, I really don't want to see it, but unfortunately, we will, and then I'd like to ask you again, but it's probably too late.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0192par0487	Thank you. Now, the first word on behalf of the entire bill belongs to Bolu MP Tanju Özcan. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0194par0494	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I must say, before I begin my words, I never thought I'd say this. The President of our country, I agree with the president of your party for the first time, after seeing this painting, there are 15 people in there. He said, Mr. President: "There's metal fatigue in the PATI." I say, "Mr. President, it's past its metal fatigue, there's a storm of metal fatigue, or there's a resistance that I can't figure out... just two days ago, follow the work of the General Assembly." Didn't he tell you? Does it suit a ruling party group? But either you've got some serious metal fatigue, or you're out of use or you've got resistance. Mr. Melih, you're resisting a wave of resistance to your group. There's no way to figure that out. Congressmans, we have made our assessments very clear in the Commission. We said: "This bill is absolutely unnecessary, it is intended to polarize society, but also to change the agenda." This is very clear. Yeah, we've told you about our assessment of the 6th article of this bill in the Commission. The AKP members in the commission actually understood exactly what we were saying. We say: "Why was this needed? " Why was this needed? The government doesn't have an official marriage officer left? You're saying that the inspectors are civil servants. You tell that to the citizen. True, the mufti are civil servants, but in the eyes of the citizen, the mufti are considered a religious man representing the Sunni sect of Islamic religion, and they will be described as a religious marriage, even if it is called an official marriage. Look, we warned you, it divides society. We said that the people who married the governor and the people who married the minister would be divided. Your mayors, in particular, have recently begun to perform uncivilized marriages, abuses. You all know what he said at those weddings. Tomorrow, the mufti who want to benefit can draw it into a much different area. We have shared our concern with you many times. At the head of the commission, we said, "This bill is clearly unconstitutional, let's discuss it in the Constitutional Commission." Unfortunately, no decision has been made. Look, there are regulations that concern other commissions, so let's transfer them to other commissions, let's get their opinion, the Constitution and the Civil Code are already ordering us to do this, and we said, "Let's do this." But unfortunately, the Commissioner didn't want to take any steps in this matter, he focused on the 6th article of the bill. Are our concerns too empty? I don't think so. The president of your party, Mr. President, says in every speech that our concerns are already correct. We've already started these talks with his saying, "Whether you want it or not, it will pass." He speaks of our concerns in every speech, and now, with this arrangement, the official marriage will be converted into a religious marriage, no matter how much you argue against it. We just told Mr. Elitas, Mr. President doesn't say that. He says: "Look into the law, and see what it says." Congressmans, I'm a lawyer. The law has a saying and a soul.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0195par0501	And then there's the appliances.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0194par0502	And then there's the appliances, bravo. Now, your president, who is going to speak of his soul and apply this law, says over and over and over again how true he and our concerns are. You're an interesting power. Look, even the Ottomans, ruled by the sherry law in 1917, are taking these kinds of procedures from the sheikhullaslam with the decree of a sultan, the process of keeping wedding records. Who's he giving it to? He gives it to women, gives it to the courts, but you take it to the rest of the Ottoman Empire in 1917, don't do it. Look, we have millions of Alevi citizens, hundreds of thousands of non-Muslim citizens, even if you don't want to see them. Have you ever questioned how you have the right to impose such a thing on them? Why are you pushing me like this? I think this arrangement should be withdrawn from this bill immediately. Also, there's just been an issue, dear teacher, and I'd like to ask: is there a clergy class in Muslim? No. But as this arrangement was brought to us, they said: "Fathers have the right to marry. " You cannot compare the Christian priest in Europe to the mufti or imam in Turkey. That's what we tried to tell you, but we couldn't or you didn't understand. Congressmans, I don't think that's the only controversial clause in this bill, but I think there's a Article 28th -- I asked the Minister twice in the commission, I didn't get a response -- it facilitates transition to Turkish citizenship. Why are you doing this? Do you do it quickly to make 3.5 million Syrian citizens, or do you not have such a purpose, or we'd like to file a report. But Mr. Secretary couldn't make a sound, so he listened quietly. I want to draw your attention to the 28th article. Again, there's a 31st article here about general morality, my friends mentioned it, and I agree. He's a state moral guard, what is it? In a marriage with a stranger, it was necessary for that stranger to become a Turkish citizen after the time had run out that his past life would have to be moral. Congressmans, I told you on the Commission, I have a 15-year-old son. The world is getting smaller now; if my son meets a French or Spanish girl, loves her, loves her, decides to marry her, in what capacity will the state oversee whether my bride-to-be lives in general morality? Does he have that right? Does he have that authority? You don't even know how you define common morality. So I demand that this bill be withdrawn immediately. Again, there was a lot of talk in the Commission, Mr. Minister didn't insist on answering, but Turkey's current topic is the matter of the mayors. He was very interested in the Internal Affairs Commission. The strangest thing has begun, the mayors are resigning because Mr. President at the palace asked you to. Now, look, you're also resigning your mayors, and I'm not interested in him personally; he's choosing AKP delegates, you're giving the mayors, you're giving the AKP members his account. The people pick the mayors, the people pick the people, and we answer on behalf of the people. Why is he getting his resignation?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0196par0510	Do they have an investigation?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0194par0511	What's all this? Is this my brother? Are they related to him? Then why are you getting me to resign, and why don't you press charges? Why can't you appoint trustees like you did with HDP mayors? I'm looking for the answer to that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Well, the second possibility comes to mind: corruption. But I don't think it's about corruption, because it's obvious that there's a common corruption in your mayors. And these corruptions don't bother you at all. Then I come up with a third possibility: Did they prevent the chief from showing the proper respect, or is that why they're being asked to resign? Do you have such authority in our President's law? I say, "Look, if these are the ones who are in charge, go after them, hand over the documents to the prosecutors; even if they are corrupt, do so; but you have your eye on your eyebrow, and I don't like the way you're looking at them, but the mayors must resist. Look, about our mayor of Bolu, probably one of you dropped it in the press. I went out to the mayor of Bolu in front of the press: My brother -- he's my biggest political rival, Bolu/da -- if you don't have a connection with the government, don't quit if you don't have a major corruption, we're behind you, but if you're connected with this, go to the prosecutor yourself. That's the way it should be. Anyway, I don't think these resignations were a decision made on the fight against GER. I don't think she wanted to resign because they gave her a parcel when she wanted to resign. If he were sincere about that, your party and Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0197par0516	They wouldn't have run in 2014.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0194par0517	Look, Mr. Metiner gave a speech here, at the July 15th ceremony, at the memorial ceremony, there were two former ministers from the parliament with him. We said, "Who?" He didn't answer. I looked at those pictures. In those pictures, there are two former ministers, that's right; one of them is Bulent Arinc, one is Suat Steel. [[x]] Mr. Metiner, if you're a man, if you're behind your promise, come out and explain it here. Were these names Bulent Arinc and Suat Steel? I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0198par0522	It'll be Suat Sword.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0199par0523	Mr. Tanju, there are many who bring knives when the ox falls to the ground.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0200par0524	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0201par0525	Mr. President, I've been promised for the record. Mr. Ozcan gave us advice.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0202par0527	He's needed.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0201par0528	He said: "If the mayors who resign -- who have been resigned in the nail -- are corrupt -- go to the prosecutors, give this to them. " But just before this sentence, when you advise us, right before the sentence, corruption is already common to you in the municipalities." I'm asking: based on this information, does he have a complaint against the state's attorney or not?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0203par0529	Resen called it in, that's the tip.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0204par0530	No, he's lying.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0201par0531	Do you or don't you?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0204par0532	He's slandering, he's not.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0201par0533	The mind he gave us...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0205par0534	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0206par0535	Yes, and you'll have to write it down, please.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0201par0536	I'm asking him about the mind he gave us.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0207par0537	He's slandering, slandering.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0208par0538	Now, sir, the speech...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0209par0539	Your prosecutors aren't on duty, then.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0210par0540	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0208par0541	Now, sir, first I have to correct a matter from the stand. I mispronounced the last name of a former minister, Mr. Metiner, mentioned by Mr. Metiner, and I need to correct that.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0210par0542	All right, fix it, we're going to the reports, we're listening.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0208par0543	Secondly, Mr. President has made a mockery of the General Assembly by speaking my words wrongly, by describing what I mean differently.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0210par0544	Okay, you tell me, and it's on the record.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0208par0545	Let me put it to you on the stand in a minute.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0210par0546	Mr. Özcan, you said you'd already finished.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0208par0547	Let me finish, sir.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0210par0548	Tell me, what's his last name? It's over.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0208par0549	I'm not much of a teaser, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0211par0550	No teasing, Mr. President, no teasing.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0210par0551	Look, it's not teasing, it says: either he gave us a reason to ask: Is there such a thing? You have it or you don't have it, answer.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0211par0552	He gave his own advice, did he use his own mind?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0210par0553	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0211par0554	I mean, did he put his mind to it?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0212par0555	Sir, but if you'll excuse me, I said it from the stand, so I'll answer on the stand.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0213par0556	There are hundreds of criminal charges against your mayors, have any of them reached a conclusion? There are hundreds of criminal charges.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0214par0557	We are asking him, indeed, with the thought that he gave such wisdom. If there really is such a claim of corruption...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0215par0558	Regarding widespread corruption...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0214par0559	He asked if he had any application for this matter? Tell me that.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0216par0560	Is there any prosecutor left with the courage to conduct the investigations?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0217par0561	Mr. President, let me tell you, I didn't say it because I said something else.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0218par0562	That's what I'm asking, is there a widespread appeal to prosecutors about common corruption?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0217par0563	I can put it together in two minutes without getting picked on.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0219par0564	Mr. Özcan, I'll turn on the microphone or file...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0220par0565	There's no need to investigate. The Home Office is asking for permission, but they won't let me.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0219par0566	I'll turn on the mike from your position. Here you go, according to 60.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0221par0570	First of all, I mispronounced the name of the former minister Mr. Metiner. I said Suat Çelik, and I want to correct it. Mr. Metiner approves with his head, thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0222par0571	I've already criticized them with names, so don't worry.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0221par0572	Secondly, I said, "Are these presidents asked to resign because they're presidents, or because they're corrupt?" I said I don't think it's about corruption because there's no investigation into corruption, and I don't think it's something that's bothering you very much. However, what I'm going to do is I'm going to appeal to the court for the dismissal of these mayors in the coming days, and I'm going to ask Mr. President to be heard as a witness, and he won't spare the prosecutors if he knows anything. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0223par0575	Congressmans, let me ask you in particular: Look, there's been a lot of different names being mentioned around here in the past few days, and there's been a lot of blame around here.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0224par0576	Aren't the resigned mayors under suspicion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0223par0577	Look, this isn't a court, this isn't a jurisdictional position. Please, please, we will never, ever accept accusations of a crime that would implicate someone based on rumors; that's not true.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0225par0578	Which one are you singing?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0223par0579	No matter who it is, no matter who it is, no matter who it is, one way or the other that someone here is accused without a court order... not just for these, look, it's been days, it's not right.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0226par0580	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0227par0581	Mr. President, ask Mr. Metiner.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0223par0582	Please pay attention to what we say about people who aren't here. No matter who it is, no matter who it is or not, I beg you, I don't mean all the MPs -- I don't mean by you, Mr. Özcan -- all the MPs here, of course, we're going to express our thoughts, we're going to express our most freely, but while we're expressing this, I want to thank you for your discretion and your discretion.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0228par0583	I'd like to make a statement. There's no such thing as my criminal endeavor. I don't even talk to...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0223par0584	Well, the names fly in the air, and you say, well, you say, is that acceptable, or is that an easy thing to do?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0229par0585	No, not for us either. What are you talking about? Everybody show the same sensitivity. As for us, cleaning up...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0228par0586	Sir, allow him to file a report, as a delicate matter.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0230par0587	Thousands of people have been laid off in this country.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0228par0588	Would you excuse me? Mr. President, Mr. Metiner, who declares those individuals as a publicist and even writes in a newspaper column, is sitting here, confirming with his head, saying the names are true. Make a promise, without taunting everyone, and he should have a say.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0231par0590	Yeah, I don't mean any incidents, no names, it's just a general expression. Thank you, it's in the transcripts. Yes, now, in the name of the government...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0232par0593	Hundreds of people have been wrongfully accused in this country.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0233par0594	Mr. President, news from the pool media has been charged with CHP daily.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0231par0595	Now, the pool media, in one way or another, is the words that I don't find true, but it's the responsibility of a congressman to lead this Congress.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0232par0596	Just yesterday, your congressman accused me.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0231par0597	We have no right to bring every incident out here, every argument, every rumor, and make it sound like it's real, no right, no law, please.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0232par0599	Your vice president, who spoke of this bench yesterday, was disrespectful.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0231par0600	In the name of the government...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0234par0601	Mr. President, I'm so sorry, but you, of course, a lot of things...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0231par0602	Yeah, do you or do you not agree with what I'm saying? I'm not saying anything wrong.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0234par0603	I'll agree, and if you agree, I'll agree with him. Mr. President of the Justice and Development Party is talking about the grandfather of one of our MPs at each group meeting. Is he attending that meeting, or is our congressman not offending? Ismet Pasha is in your group meeting hall, but you're messing with us every meeting? CHP down, CHP up; Ismet Innu down, Ismet Innu up. Turn that around a little bit and say it that way.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0231par0606	Thank you. I, of course, say that specifically because dealing with the individual is strictly forbidden in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0235par0608	Tell that to the President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0231par0612	Yes, in the name of the government, it belongs to our Minister of the Interior, Mr. Süleyman Soylu. Here you are, Your Royal Highness. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is twenty minutes, so please obey.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0236par0616	Mr. President, highly valued lawmakers have made a pledge on behalf of my government regarding the Law on Population Services and the Amendment to Some Laws, and I hereby salute the High Assembly. As I begin my speech, first of all, I offer my condolences to Somalia, and to the people of Somalia, who have been subjected to one of the most brutal terrorist attacks in history. Again, I ask the grace of God to our citizens who lost their lives in the cave-in in Şırnak yesterday. Thank God we didn't receive the news of the martyrs, and our wounded were slightly injured, and each of them was released from the hospital, and now he condemns the violent attack on the poor terror, which left about seven people in the hospital, and to the wounded I pray for immediate healing from God. In addition, I ask the former President of the Republican People's Party who is currently being treated in the hospital, Mr. Deniz Baykal, to heal Mr. Deniz Baykal, who is also called Cenab. As soon as we're in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, hopefully, I'd like to give each and every one of you a wish to be together in the study. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to start by contacting a discussion that I consider important about the population. According to researchers at the United Nations, it is estimated that in 2050, there will be less than 248 million children worldwide, and from 2020, the number of people over 65 will unfortunately start to exceed the number of children under 5 years of age. The annual loss of the European population in 2050 is estimated to be around 3 million. This number is around 700,000 today. By looking at other data such as these, the number of scientists who describe the global population after the middle of the 21st century as a demographic winter is not at all small. The whole picture actually describes the need for the right and effective management of the population issue. It's not just about getting the population to increase in numbers. In cases such as keeping our records properly, birth, death, and marriage, it is of course a responsibility and a duty of the modern government to reduce the burden of bureaucracy on citizens, to use technology at the highest level in this regard, to increase efficiency and efficiency in all areas from service to military, finance to justice, with the help of an advanced population registration system. As a matter of fact, we have a long tradition of government and a serious tradition of bureaucracy. In our country, populations were held on a national basis, for different purposes, starting in the 17th century. So there's an infrastructure from the past to keep records of the human element that constitutes the core of the state and to govern it. Like a living organism, this structure displays a character that is constantly renovated, constantly changing, able to create new needs, and is increasingly involved in rapidly developing technology, population and citizenship. So, our proposal for the law brought before you today is a continuation of such a process. Mr. President, our offer to your evaluations involves fundamentally the changes envisioned in three laws. First, there are 24 amendments in the Population Services Act, 7 new clauses added, 2 clauses self-inflicted, and 1 joke of 1 article removed. Secondly, six articles in the Turkish Citizenship Act have been changed, one new clause added, and one joke of 2 articles removed from effect. And finally, a new clause is added to the Law on Offices and Tasks of Interior Ministry 3152. As a government, with the legislation of this bill, 1) The reduction of bureaucracy, 2) Increased efficiency and efficiency in service presentations 3) Simplify and shorten internal business processes 4) That some services should be presented online in a paper environment 5) We aim to establish a legal basis for certain actual situations. I tried to give detailed information on the clauses in my speech on the commission's presentation on the amendments brought in by the bill. I'd like to inform you and the public about some of the points I consider important here. One of the most important innovations will now be a single personal record of family logs in the electronic environment. That way, T.C., the person and the incident record. It is intended to be linked to the identity number, to establish the necessary links between the population records, to prevent repeated records, and to provide technical control for all operations. Depending on this infrastructure, another innovation is the I.D. System, known as the k.P.S. (K.P.S.). Today, the I.D. sharing system has been significantly prevented from the workforce and the waste of time due to bureaucracy. In our country, the number of institutions and organisations still operate by connecting with the I.D. System is 2.020. The new proposal allows institutions and institutions related to the population records in the I.D.S. and MERNIS (MERNIS) to be available electronically. So now public institutions and institutions, universities, notaries, banks will be able to get them automatically from the I.D. System, which will not require a population registration sample, an identity card sample, a settlement and other address information from our citizens. As I said in the commission, with this arrangement, a meaningless application, such as running a citizen to put one pocket in the other pocket of the state, or an application that is now meaningless with technology, of course, will end. It will also be done electronically by public institutions and notaries to identify the deaths. The application of notary notification to tax offices and notaries in the notary environment will end out of thin air, which means notarys are now... on the one hand, some of the issues related to death -- custody, etcetera -- can be solved in an electronic environment very freely and will be recorded in this new law. Of course, data security has been taken into consideration. The Protection of Personal Data Law has been created by the amendment of Articles 45 and 65, and with a temporary clause added, the Data Sharing Board has been redesigned and re-funded by the basic and method of identity sharing. Some of the other arrangements the bill brings are briefly stated... that hospitals, courts, foreign diplomatic missions, and marriage agencies... are authorized to report and register population events in electronics, such as birth, death, marriage, before they go to population managers. We refer to the events in this hospital: From the moment the child is born, the official at the hospital will be able to specify the name and name of the child in the hospital, if the name of the child is placed in the hospital, if the name and name of the child is not placed in the hospital, and after that, the child's birth certificate -- if the name and last name are mentioned -- will go to the family's address. So we're actually taking a very clear opportunity that technology has brought. There is also a very facilitating provision for names and surnames and surnames that have been allowed to be changed without a court order. Our women who can use her husband's last name by the court's order are allowed to reuse their last name before they are married without a court decision, only if they request it. In five years from the time of the law, which has been passed, the birthplace and birth date of those who have been granted Turkish citizenship as immigrants, the birthplace and the date of birth -- and we all witness -- will be restored to birth and birth without a court order, in their application of birth certificates approved according to the procedure. The fact that those who have not been registered in the family log -- and this is a very important change -- that their parents, if they are dead -- have their brothers' medical report testimony that they are not required for another document -- is also some of the important innovations of this bill. Mr. President, good lawmakers, a significant innovation with this amendment is also relevant to the registration of birth events. In current applications, the diagnosis of birth events is based on the official document or the oral statement -- I want you to listen carefully here. In our country, 98% of the birthing events are still being carried out in health care. The task of investigating the oral statement at birth is now assigned to family physicians at the behest of the head of the property. So here, in addition to the oral statement of birth events, another assessment has been presented. When we first discussed this in the Commission, some women's associations, without understanding it or reading it in any way, unfortunately, have made a very pointless opposition to the idea that we're making a different arrangement here; that they've learned the basics and read the basics, and that they've given up on it, because here, it's not a facilitator, it's a temporary adjustment to a health-wise system. Information on the birthing of a child named Mernis database is intended to be electronically registered to the MERNIS database, and the child who is born in health care services but is not named is being recorded electronically in the MERNIS database, as I just described. Again, as a result of our assessments, some of the articles of the Turkish Citizenship Act are needed to be reviewed. As it is known, foreigners in Turkey without interruption for five years have the right to apply for Turkish citizenship with a work permit and a valid residence intended to settle in Turkey. In this scope, it was six months at most that doctors, engineers, businessmen, scientists, technological, economics, social, sports, cultural and artistic people who were thought to have contributed or would have been able to stay abroad during this five-year period. It's only natural that with the means of improving travel opportunities and the possibility of globalization, we're willing to extend the length of time to one year, twelve months, in five years, in order to ensure that these competent people here can earn our country's citizenship. I'd also like to inform you of the Grand Assembly as part of an arrangement that is deeply involved in the public opinion or media agenda. In addition to the existing officials, the municipality and district mufti are also extended under the provisions of the Law on Marriage and Law on Marriage. So instead of the way the marriage was arranged, we've brought an extension of the official definition of marriage before our Parliament. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to first explain the current legal and actual situation. The marriage, which is valid in the eyes of our country and in the eyes of the state as a kind of marriage, is an official marriage. In our civil law, as well as with our civil law, the rules of marriage are clearly established. With the arrangement brought in, there will be no changes or changes in procedure and fundamentals here. The situation is also available for those in charge of the marriage: The marriage is already held in our municipal and village marriage offices, population managers and foreign diplomatic missions. Of course, since the marriage is a very serious legal procedure, the regulations are clear and clear, and this practice is continuing until now. I've even given you these numbers before, so I'd like to repeat them. From Christmas 2017 to the day the bill reached the commission, 426,258 weddings were performed by our wedding officials in our municipalities, 3,212 weddings were performed by our population managers, and 16,543 weddings were performed by our clients and 19,979 married by those authorized by our foreign representatives. Now, in addition to these groups, this bill consists of giving the county and county mufti the right to marry and the duty. And the authority here is entirely in the Ministry of the Interior, just as it is in the Census Offices.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0237par0647	Will the mufti authorize the imams?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0236par0648	The goal of doing so is to increase people's formal access to marriage, considering the geographical conditions of some of our country's regions and the number of officials.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0237par0649	Mr. Secretary, we're asking if the mufti will grant these powers.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0236par0650	There is no loophole or interpretation in any of our laws regarding marriage.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0238par0651	There are no imams in mosques, let the mufti pray in mosques.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0236par0652	I'd like to rephrase this: There is no room for interpretation or interpretation in any of our laws regarding marriage.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0239par0653	Will the mufti grant these powers, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0236par0654	The civil marriage, which will be announced by those who, according to our civil Law, will be married in front of the official official officer, is the only way to get married in Turkey, and it is also known that the mayor or the mayor's official in the municipality has been given the job of marriage to the muhtars in the villages. Apart from Law 5490 and mayor and mayors, the Ministry of Interior also gives the duty and the authority to marry the county population and citizenship directors and population managers and foreign diplomatic missions. With the bill we present to you today, this area is expanded by the mandate and authority of the marriage office to the county and county mufti. Every citizen of our country has the right and authority to perform the marriage of his or her official marriage as long as it's in accordance with legal conditions. The municipality will be able to get married to the marriage office, to the Local Register Office, to whoever wants it, to the mayor who wants it, to the town and county mufti. This choice is entirely for our citizens. However, no matter which officer it is with, the marriage is the same and the marriage is official. I also point out that in the marriage proceedings, instead of the ceremony, from the document to the robe worn by the officer, the Turkish Law on Civilisation and the Law on Marriage will implement the same provisions as the county and county mufti, which will not make any difference. So the county or county mufti will wear the dress worn by the city's marriage officer while they are in marriage, and the marriage will not be officially annulled as per our laws and regulations. This issue is clearly stated in the legislation that regulates the rules of marriage and the basis of marriage: No formal marriage can be performed in religious places.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0240par0656	Let our mufti remain mufti.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0236par0657	Yeah, well, I'd like to make one more important point here. Now, we've discussed this in the commission, and we've made our assessments very clear. I think the debates on the Commission have been very mature, and everyone has made their own assessment. Here, any citizen of ours can make any officer he wants do it to the officer of his authority. Our friends are having this discussion: "Here, in Europe, the wedding is being held in the church, and this is how it is done.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0240par0658	The priest has time.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0236par0659	See, there is no analogy or precedent between the practice that we bring in and the practice in Europe or any other country. On the contrary, there is no understanding of secularism here, which is a binding limitation of our freedom of religion and conscience. Literally, literally, it has nothing to do with sexism, and I'm very clear about that. There are two kinds of marriage, men and women. It has nothing to do with sexism.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0241par0660	Is there a women's mufti?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0242par0661	Can you give me a female mufti name, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0236par0662	And again, I want to make this clear, so I want to make it very clear. This, in particular, hurts me in this particular argument that we, as a group, have both women's rights and marriage rights, our sensitivity is very clear and obvious. So it's not about women getting married at an early age, it's about the opposite, it's about the legitimacy of marriages, it's about spreading them. I especially want to address the Republican People's Party Group, which I think you should support.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0243par0663	Not at all, not at all.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0236par0664	Because we promote the legitimacy of a marriage authority and the scope of a marriage authority and...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0243par0665	There's going to be a lot of young marriage.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0236par0666	I want to make it very, very important that we're doing this under the official marriage laws and the law today. Your support of this would basically result in the removal of the issues that have been contested so far. I would like to take this opportunity to express, especially in the interest of preventing any abuse at this point... See, the measures of our laws are clear and clear in order to block the link between a religious marriage and an official marriage. First: The religious ceremony of marriage cannot be performed until the family wallet is shown according to Article 143 of the Civil Law; it is clear and clear. I'd like a minute or a minute and a half extra, if that's possible.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0244par0671	Mr. Secretary, please complete in one minute.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0236par0672	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0245par0673	Mr. Secretary, there are no imams at funerals. What should the mufti do, pray or marry?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0236par0674	Second: A religious marriage cannot be carried out on its own terms, as long as it is in accordance with the order to perform the religious ceremony of the marriage to those who want to be married after the marriage has been passed under the Law under the Law of Justice and Work of the Ministry of Religious Affairs. And I'm also very clear about the discussion of this issue, as I mentioned earlier, on the basis of gender, and I'm having trouble understanding it.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0246par0676	You're looking at it as a man.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0236par0677	In summation, the marriage is not changing, the venue of the wedding is not changing, there is no regulation for the religious wedding.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0247par0678	The country's education, its health is down, the economy is dying, what you're dealing with!
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0236par0679	It is only a matter of time before the addition of borough and county mufti to government officials who have already been granted the right to marry. This is the end of the bill that we are now presenting to the High Council. I'd like to say one more sentence, as I'm the Home Secretary, because you've entered the mayors. Look, whoever's corrupt, whoever's acting against the law, that's the mayor, that's X, that's Y, that's Z, that's our jurisdiction, we don't look down on him. From now on, the opposition municipalities and the ruling municipalities will see that we don't look down on them, but then they won't make a sound.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit02spe0248par0683	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0248par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 10th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 497. The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0249par0004	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0248par0005	Mr. Kerestecioğlu, I give you my word according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0249par0009	During his speech, the minister gave up opposition when the women's institutions understood the clause regarding the oral statement of the birth. I've been promised to tell you that's not true. On the contrary, it is still insisted that a more competent improvement should be made, and that this verbal statement is always at risk, and that a serious investigation should be carried out in verbal statements, especially without being left to the manager's initiative. The United Nations Country Team is also at risk of not being investigated, especially as a result of incestuous relations, pregnancy, childbirth, multiple marriages, pregnancy, and birth resulting from rape; pregnancy and child rape, and marriage, making it possible to register the population with verbal testimony without any research on pregnancy and childbirth. So there's something about the fact that women's organizations don't understand it or accept it... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I finish?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0248par0012	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0249par0013	Yeah, there's no such thing as a statement. It's just that there's a certain need for research to be done here in the oral statement, but it's always been carried out -- so it's taking risks today -- and it's taking risks in the future -- that's what they're saying.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0248par0014	Thank you. Now, the bill...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0250par0016	Mr. President, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0248par0017	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0250par0018	Speaking on the stand, Mr. Minister: I expect the People's Party of the Republic to support this bill as well. He used a statement in the form of marriage authority for the mufti. This is clearly contrary to the 4th article of the Constitution, the 2nd article of the Constitution, the 10th article, the 24/10, the 174/4th Article of the Lauzan Convention -- although I gave it to the Minister yesterday -- although we know it is a violation of the Constitution, we do not knowingly accept that he should share us in the violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0248par0020	Thanks, we're about to submit to the approval of the General Assembly, and we're going to look for the admission of the General Assembly. The last word on the entire bill is from Mr. Mustafa Hilmi Dülger. Here you go, Mr. Dulger.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0251par0027	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken a personal pledge on the Law of Population Services to change certain Laws, and I will express my opinion on the full amount of time that I actually have on it. I salute the High Council. Before I begin my words, I wish God's mercy to our workers who lost their lives in the cave-in yesterday in Şırnak, and my condolences to their families. Again, I wish immediate healing to our security forces who were wounded in Mersin, because of a treacherous attack. Meanwhile, Mr. Deniz Baykal, former president of the Republican People's Party, tells Mr. Baykal to get well, and I wish him a speedy recovery. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as you well know, the right to citizenship is a vision of the government's sovereignty over the person, and the process of winning, losing, and related events may differ from time and different legal understandings of the nations. Laws and regulations on this subject, including this sentence, sometimes meet expectations for the future and sometimes arise as a need for updates due to developments and new requirements. There is also a need for improvements in our legal legislation on population and citizenship today when both our digital technology use rate is increasing and our demands and needs are changing. Mr. President, the current and continuity of the population logs, as it is known, is an extremely important subject that touches the most critical processes of life, such as birth, death, marriage, divorce, property, inheritance. The bill envisioned that there would be a single record of individual family logs in the electronic environment, and that the records of individuals and events would be linked to the identity number of the Republic of Turkey; the establishment of necessary links between the population records, preventing multi-regional records and providing technical control for all jobs. Mr. President, good lawmakers, it also appears that the bill allows the citizens to report to hospitals, courts, foreign diplomatic missions, and marriage officials for service at every hour of the day, and to provide them with electronic authority to report and register population events, speed and ease in the ministry, so that they can be easily registered in the electronic environment, not going to population managers and not going to the register of the mentioned population events. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, this bill also shows that such problems can be changed without the need of a court ruling, which is one of the events in which we all experience significant challenges in everyday life from time to time, writing and spelling errors. The arrangement thus reduces the workload in the courts and eliminates long queues of courts. Another arrangement concerns our women who can use her husband's last name with a court order after divorce. With this arrangement, our women in this situation will be able to use their last name before they are married without a court decision, only if they request it. Mr. President, it is also possible to correct the situation of those who were later granted Turkish citizenship without a court order for their birthplace and date of birth. Again, it is still possible for those who have not been registered in the family logs, even though they have completed 18 years of age, to perform the registration process without asking for another document. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, perhaps one of the changes in public that will bring the most satisfaction is the changes in the identity-sharing system. This system, which has been put into practice for this purpose, will be open to the access of institutions, so that the relevant institutions and organisations will be able to access the identity information directly and quickly in electronics. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, again, a change brought in by this law appears to have been provided with electronic registration in the registration of birth events. In another arrangement, it will be possible to electronically register information on the birthing of the child who was born and named in health care institutions. Again, according to our meri legislation today, the marriage proceedings are still being carried out in our municipalities, village marriage offices, population managers and foreign diplomatic missions, while this bill is now also mandated and mandated to marry the district and county mufti in addition to these groups. First of all, I have to make this point clear that this bill does not include an application and a proposal, such as the formalisation of a new marriage style or the formalisation of a religious wedding. I'm saying this as the chief inspector of property for 17 years, because when we went there, we would conduct inspections and inspections of municipal marriage services; two, and we would oversee the marriage and procedures of municipal and municipal population managers. The procedure will be the same in the form and procedure of the current official marriage procedure, even until the state of the state of the state, which is the same in which the official will be wearing the robe of the marriage officer; it is nothing more than giving authority to the district and county muftüms. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the official figure of marriage in our country has been regulated by legislation, and there is never any change in the matter. The source of this form is from our Civil Law, and from the Law on Marriage. The legal marriage, which will take place in front of the official and official officer, is the only way in Turkey to get married, according to our civil law. It is known that with our civil law, the powers and duties of marriage were given to the mayor and the mayor in the municipalities, and to the head of the marriage proceedings, as well as to the chiefs in the villages. Apart from Law 5490 and mayors and mayors, the Ministry of Interior grants the authority to state population managers and county population managers and foreign diplomatic missions. Today, the bill presented here to the Supreme Assembly extends only the legal area, given the duty and authority of marriage duties to the district and district mufti, so there is no regulation on the way to the marriage; there is only an addition to the state officials who will perform the wedding. Again, according to the Turkish Civil Code and the Law on Marriage, the marriage officer must be a public servant. After all, the mufti are also a civil servant, so there is no need to worry about that. According to this, each citizen has the right and authority to commit the marriage of the official marriage officer he wishes to marry, provided he obeys the legal conditions. If anyone wants, they can apply to the municipal marriage office; if anyone wants, to the Local Register Office; if anyone wants, to the village chiefship; and if anyone wants, they can apply to the county and county legislature. So far, the polarity of society has not been recorded in any record. Dear lawmakers, marriage proceedings are also an institution established in accordance with certain legal rules and formalities. There is no need to worry about that. Like the inspections and inspections of other officials, the muftüms will be audited according to the same procedure and basis. I wish the bill would be a blessing for our country, for our nation, for our citizens, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0252par0046	Thank you, Mr. Dulger. That's how we ended the conversation. Now we're going to do a QA on the whole bill. Congressmans, the MPs who entered the system yesterday took turns back into the system. According to him, in the first ten minutes of the twenty-minute question-answer process -- in order to be a question -- I will in turn promise the MPs, and I will give the next ten minutes for the minister to answer the questions. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0253par0051	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the President of the Religious Affairs has tested the temporary mosque officer for the Imam-nephew staff in all of our 81 districts. These mosque imams have been moved to İSKUR as cleaning workers. As imam, these mosque imams, taken as mosque clerk imams, have been relocated to what law, by what charter, by what regulations? There is no sentence on the examination that they will be registered to İSKUR. WHEN they are moved to İSKUR, they work for minimum wage, but when they serve as mosque imams, there is a difference in their rights and status. Isn't that against the law, the order? When will that sacrifice be removed? Question 2: Is the 6th article of the bill not contrary to the 42nd article of our Constitution, the 2nd, the 4th, the 10th, the 24th, the 174th, and the Lausanne Convention? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0254par0055	Mr. Bassman...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0255par0056	Mr. President... Mr. Secretary, I'm very curious: there are terrors in our country today, there are murders, there are very serious judicial decrees, there are economic problems, there are suicides, and because of what necessary necessity, are we talking about whether the mufti will be killed today? Is that the most essential problem in our country? I'm curious about that. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0256par0059	Mr. Irgil instead of Mr. Special...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0257par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, at every opportunity and every explanation you give to the citizens, relax, you're safe. The government is everywhere, and not even a bird flies without our knowledge, and you say you're safe. Do you intend to make a transaction for your governor, the governor, the governor, the governor, and the manager, who was unable to identify him, who was unable to even see the illegal mine where seven workers died and the trucks were buzzing all day long? My second question is, as you know, security investigations are being conducted during this new era. There have often been complaints from citizens and appointed health staff or other officers that appointments have been delayed and that there have been no appointments for six months or seven months. In this regard, can you give them good news to speed up the assignments or to conclude them? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0258par0064	Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0259par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in your talks you've just made, you've mentioned the demographic winter, and you've expressed, for example, that youth is waning, that the elderly population is multiplying. Did you say that as a reason for giving these mufti the right to marry? So, is that what you're trying to tell me, is that what it's like to raise the marriage? At the same time, I missed one, but you mentioned three conditions regarding this bill, which would reduce the bureaucracy, reduce the work period, create a basis for the actual situation. I understand the first two, and I agree with that, and I do, but I'd like to know what you mean by based on the actual situation. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0260par0069	Mr. Ilgezdi replaced Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0261par0070	Mr. President... Mr. Secretary, you're saying that with this bill, families will be charged with the marriage of the mufti. How are you going to investigate the family institution with mufti? Do you feel that divorces are based on a religious separation or a lack of religious faith between spouses? Will you, like the marriage officers, appoint family officials who were founded within the religion to marry them? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0262par0073	Mr. Balbay...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0263par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, one of the last books I read is Ali Kumoglu's book of confrontation. I'd like to quote from three or four places there, but I'd like to share just the two of them: the point where Islamic countries come today in the field of law is the product of centuries of a process. In the statement of the late Erol Güngör, the legal movement in the Islamic world failed to reach modern life. This public recession in the Islamic world has been forced to take advantage of Western law after it has become an impossible distance to close, and in the last instance, religion is damaged and creates a problem when it solves everything that is happening around us, when it becomes decisive in every aspect of life. Of course, if a CHP member said that, you'd comment differently, but in your time, a person who served seven years as President of Religious Affairs emphasizes our recession in law and the recession of the Islamic world. Now, with what you've brought, won't you damage the mufti office... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... Aren't you going to enter a process that forces the flow of everyday life? There are no women of 81 mufts, they're all men. Won't you crush women in a male-dominated society? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0264par0083	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0265par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in this bill that you're trying to give the mufti the right to marry, you're arguing the grounds for facilitating, accelerating citizens' marriage. At what stage is the inadequacy, slowness of existing institutions? Wouldn't it be more accurate if you had done studies in municipalities and population managers, such as increase the number of marriage officials, correcting their rights? Don't you realize that with this bill, you're going to create polarization in the form of those who have married in the community and those who have married in the court, so you're going to divide society? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0266par0089	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0267par0090	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, a bill containing the power to marry mufti is an attack on revolutionary laws, secularism, and civil rights that our republic has known to women. By this authority -- the Turkish woman with no rights -- is wanted to create two kinds of family concepts -- called official weddings, and the women and families are being separated. If this bill is adopted, it will be encouraged to marry informally, because underage marriages will increase when such authority is used by religious officials. When children under the age of 18 have been married to religious marriages and we hold the age, we will have a formal marriage. The way to say it will be opened so that unregistered marriages can be carried out. Violence, rape, abuse victims and punishment of the offenders will come to the attention of such marriages, not by law. Instead of the law of protecting the rapist, the abuser you pulled back on reactions, now you want to marry their victims in the mufti? I'm also sending my regards to our Giresun women who are collecting signatures on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0268par0094	Mr. Tekin...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0269par0095	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, every day has been known to our press that there's been a significant increase in drugs lately. The spread of synthetic drugs has become a threat to society. A drug has been invented in the United States, named after it in two days, and is coming to Turkey. Every day we get a couple of martyrs, we cry as a whole country. I'm guessing every day we lose 10, maybe 100 of our teenagers in a drug den. The drug mafia first recruits young people, then uses them as mobsters -- a sweet circulation for the mob, a new danger to society every day. It's past you and beyond me. I think it's time we redesign the law and declare a great public mobilization. What do you think? Do you have a project on this?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0268par0097	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0270par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, when the bill came to the country's agenda, you have given a reason for the fact that the Commission, in subcommittee work, has been given the right to marry the mufti on Article 6 of this legislation, which contains important regulations concerning population services, but in today's speech, again, our citizens will be able to reach a formal marriage. You have given a reason. To your side, to your ministry, really, what kind of demand did such a pile-up come about the official wedding? Also, another question is, there is a price taken from our citizens during the official wedding. Is the price to be passed on as a source for the mufti of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, which serves a certain sect? Won't that create injustice in society?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0271par0101	Now to answer the questions, I'll leave the word to the Minister of Interior, Mr. Süleyman Soylu. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0272par0103	Thank you very much. First of all, the question Mahmoud Tanal....about the mosque imams of the Ministry of Religious Affairs being ISKUR personnel....is, I believe, a reverse question. So I understand that he wants to make an assessment of the people who have been given to the mosque as public cleaning staff.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0273par0105	No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0272par0106	I mean, beyond that, there's no way that dialogue can be taken off the force, or, rather, as a member of the ISKUR staff.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0274par0107	There's an explanation for the mufti.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0275par0108	You did it before the election, for three months.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0274par0109	The Niğde Müftü announced it last week.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0276par0110	No, no, no. I mean, I understand that if he's talking about a community benefit study...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0277par0111	It's not for the benefit of the community, it's for the benefit of the election.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0276par0112	...works for the community are taken as cleaners, but if a person in the mosque has a prayer license himself at prayer times, if there is no mosque imam, then a normal member of the congregation can make it happen, and if the cleaning person there has a driver's license, it's possible to get it done.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0278par0113	mosques are imam-free, mosques. There are no imams in 57 mosques in Niğde. There are so many imam-members, but there are no imams in mosques.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0276par0114	But of course our concerned friends will be able to answer what you said about the other matter. Second of all, we're dealing with terrorism from one side of Turkey, we're dealing with immigration, we're dealing with our borders from one side, and on the other hand -- as the Ministry of Internal Affairs -- we're dealing with law enforcement, drugs. Of course, there's no way we can put all of this aside, but on the other hand, technology is developing. So we're not just suggesting a change in the 6th article of this bill. We, too, are obliged and responsible for projecting a number of technological developments and changes in this routine of our lives. Instead of being able to spend time with us, to benefit from technology, and to constantly struggle between institutions, we had to give them the opportunity we had, and with this law, we're trying to make sure that they don't lose their time.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0279par0116	What does technology have to do with a mufti wedding, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0276par0117	The question came, "How does the financial situation have an assessment of the legal situation?" Well, let me put it this way, in fact, the one that exists is actually a problem in the middle of the... For example, the fact that he's dead with Article 8, there's a case of death research on possible records, and there's an e-state birth certificate of residence on the e-state. We've been doing these things in general, with some instructions, but rather than doing them in general and with instructions, we thought it was much more appropriate to put them in the form of the law and make it comfortable. When I was a minister, I specifically instructed our citizens to take these kinds of documents freely and also to use them as official documents as official documents, but this was a debatable directive along with the law. Now, I would like to state here that we've basically strengthened this order with the law to facilitate our citizens' work. Again, by the way, yesterday, indeed, there was a sad incident in Şırnak, God rest his soul. Let me tell you, we'd like to share this information with the House, especially here, where, in spite of the long-standing intervention of the security forces, there were coal mines where they kept running as fugitives, and there were serious revenues coming from here. Our government has come up with important information on this matter.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0280par0119	Is this a stove like that?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0276par0120	If you'll just listen... For about two, two and a half months or three months in that area, those who know that area know that, in the Kösreli region and other areas, our security forces have done very serious operations, but these areas are also geographically difficult. So we've cleared a lot of coal mines here, along with terrorist organizations, and I'd like to say that we're doing this step by step, as an important assessment of our security forces and institutions there. Of course, there was a break going on here. That's what he did with it. The investigation into this matter was opened by both the relevant ministry, the necessary prosecution, and by the Justice Department, and there were detentions, and you followed. The legal process here is ongoing. But I want you to know that one of the terrorist organization's financial resources is coal mines -- coal mines in that area -- and that we're looking at coal mines in that area.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0281par0122	It's been there for four years. It's been there for four years.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0276par0123	For three years, five years, six years... no, in 2013, the permit was revoked, and two, three months ago, about the area and other areas -- I'm telling you about -- the security measures for the region were taken by our security forces.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0282par0124	Mr. Secretary, just a second, Mr. Secretary, that's not what I'm asking. How does it happen where so many trucks work?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0276par0125	Again, I would also like to say that what do you want to express in terms of the demographic winter? I shared a population assessment that the United Nations had established here. I'm the Home Secretary, and I'm responsible for both population and migration and population mobility. While I've found this opportunity here, I'd like to give the High Council some information about this. Does that constitute a family institution? Yes, the fact that the marriage establishments, especially their marriage establishments, have been registered off the books and specifically registered, makes it a more healthy conclusion for us and the family institution.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0283par0126	What's it gonna cost the government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0282par0127	You didn't tell me about the security investigation out there.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0276par0128	Especially with a bet from Mr. Gothoglu, would that hurt the mufti's office? We've never considered such an assessment; the opposite is that it's important to perform marriage and marriage because it's a family foundation. On the contrary, it is clear that it will add the same to the mufti and the mufti office as it does to the mayors, as it does to the mayors, as it adds to both financial and spiritual pleasure and happiness. There's a question about the audits of the marriage officers. In particular, the General Directorate of Population and Citizen Affairs and property inspectors are authorized to inspect all marriage agencies and civil servants, officials authorized by the General Office, governors, governors, governors, governors, governors and county managers and mayors of the municipality. Not the audited muftu, of course, but because it's going to be a matter of operations that they're doing here, it's very clear. Again, is there, in particular, the authority for marriage of the inspectors and the authority for the marriage of the municipalities to perform marriage a distinction among the citizens? No, it does not form a division.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0284par0131	Absolutely.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0276par0132	On the contrary, it's possible that everyone can do what they want to do about it... just as it goes to the head of population today, as it goes to the census officer, as it goes to the authorized official, to live in Turkey and perform weddings in foreign diplomatic missions as well as here in the mufti can use their own will in this matter. Again, in particular, I would like to say that I absolutely reject this, and I don't find it right that this should be in this discussion: I mean, there's no correlation between the smaller age of girls being married and the powers of the mufti.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0285par0134	We'll see, we'll see!
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0276par0135	And it's not right to put it out there. Perhaps you can make these assessments elsewhere, your political attitude, and of course we have to respond to your assessments, but that understanding is out of the question here. I'd like to say that in particular, in the last year on drugs, all numbers, the amount of drugs, the amount of drug operations, the amount of kilograms related to drugs have doubled, but Turkey is a transit country on drugs, Turkey is also a target country on drugs. Of course, it's not just a matter of capture, it's a whole issue. Social mobilisation is our primary duty from the local administrations to the chiefs, from the NGOs to the political parties. In this regard, especially in the last year, you realize that we've moved the numbers to the very top, that we've moved the operations to the very top. We have to work together on this with all the ministries, our Deputy Prime Minister is our co-ordinator on this. Everyone's trying to do their job, but I'd like to point out that there's a lot of ground to cover. In particular, I'd like to say... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's a sentence here, let me put it this way.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0286par0141	Please, complete.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0287par0142	That information is wrong, that information you've been given is wrong.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0276par0143	No, no, the information I've been given is not wrong. I'm a Minister of the Interior who follows drug information every day and makes it his own matter, and while I'm lying in bed in the evening, I think, "What is a child doing about it?" I'm saying that I'm a minister of the Interior who's instructed the governors' basic idea and the basic opinion of the trustees. Here, this is our struggle. We have to put up the same fight with drugs as we do with terrorism today.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0288par0144	He fell to ten years of age, and fell to ten years of age.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0276par0145	In the same way, I've expressed this in public over and over again, and I've advised the drug dealer, whatever treatment we're doing to the terrorist, and I've advised them over and over again not to melt until our security forces do the same. And don't worry, but in addition to not wondering, we all have to put our hands on the stone because just as the terrorist is trying to destroy unity and unity in our country, this is the same through chemical terrorism and drug terrorism, our family integrity, both our ethics, our customs, our civilization, and our nation's integrity. It's not just us, but geography and countries around us are facing each other. Again, I'll tell you in particular -- I didn't get a number -- but if the number comes to me, I'll tell you in other questions -- I took that number out just to give information to the Council, and in the fight against the Mafia -- friends couldn't say their blood -- was lifted with a law of listening and following. When I became Home Secretary, the first ruling we brought in was the authority to track organized crime networks, and we brought this. What did that give us? In particular, from the moment we brought it in, a step has been taken to double the operation against organised crime networks and to punish some organised crime networks in Turkey.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0289par0147	Minister, let's wrap this up, please.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0276par0148	And the reason was, I'd like to put it here in Parliament: that Turkey had created an area of its own. Once this area is out, only one force must be applied, and that power is laws, powers, and the state itself. Another force here can enter this space because of the lack of police and security forces, because it deals with other issues. We added the fight against organised crime to catalog crime at the end of 2016 or at the beginning of 2017. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As a result, I'd like to express that we have to see what he's worth right now.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0289par0151	Thank you. I'll make a promise to Mr. Timberson.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0276par0153	One sentence from the congressman... in particular, I beg of you, I must tell you, it concerns the public.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0290par0154	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0289par0155	One second... one second...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0276par0156	He has a sentence, the congressman asked; it concerns the public, I have to answer.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0290par0157	There are paramedics and officers who can't be assigned due to security investigations, and they're all waiting for answers. The person in charge is Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0289par0158	Congressmans, there's going to be a question-answer on chapter one, remaining...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0290par0159	Let him answer that.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0291par0160	I'll give you one sentence.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0289par0161	In a word, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0291par0162	Let me put it this way: about fifteen days ago, we immediately finished the security investigation of 12,500 paramedics and sent them away.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0292par0163	But it's too long, too long.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0291par0164	We've just created another system. Intel, security investigation and the work done with other cities... we've just had this meeting this morning, starting next week as of Monday. At the same time, our friends in the provinces and districts will be able to conduct a security investigation. We won't waste any time, everyone relax.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0293par0165	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0294par0166	You're saying there's no investigation at the Ministry of Interior.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0291par0167	We don't have an investigation, except for a number of legal court decisions.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0293par0168	I'll make a promise to Mr. Timberson. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0295par0172	Now, on the one hand, it is said that there were no birds flying in Şırnak, but on the other hand, it is disrespectful to mention that terrorist organizations actually run a mine there, first of all, the memory of the dead. I'd really like to express my regret about this.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0296par0173	Are you telling me about this place?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0295par0174	Secondly -- I only offer the information of the General Assembly -- there is no responsibility in Turkey. Today, the Portuguese Interior Minister resigned due to criticism after last week's forest fires. Last week, the Dutch Defence Minister resigned only because of two soldiers who died in Mali. I don't think there's any need to comment on that, but in our country, hopefully, we'll see that these responsibilities have been taken and I've really made a mistake. We'll see the days called "I made a mistake." We'll also miss that kind of politics. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0297par0179	The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0298par0181	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0297par0182	Wait a second... Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first section covers Articles 1 to 20.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0299par0185	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0297par0186	Mr. Tanal, what's up?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0299par0187	What's going on?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0297par0188	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0299par0189	Mr. Secretary said the information is not wrong. Now, these temporary mosque workers have been taken on the KPSS exam, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0300par0190	That's something else.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0299par0191	After taking the KPSS test, there were also tests for religious services information, so there were two exams. So far, none of the people who have been taken as cleaning staff to İSKUR have been taken to İSKUR, Mr. Minister.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0301par0192	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0299par0193	The information you've been given is wrong, and I beg you to correct it.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0301par0194	Members of parliament, on behalf of the groups on the first chapter, the first statement on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group belongs to Bart's MP Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Yalcinkaya, we missed you. Welcome. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0302par0198	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Before I begin my speech, I pray to God for the mercy of seven of our mine martyrs, and to our officers who were injured in the traitorous terrorist attack in Mersin. He's still being treated by our former President and Antalya MP, Mr. Deniz Baykal, and I'm hoping he'll come back to health as soon as possible. Dear MPs, the Republic of Turkey is a state of law. One of the most fundamental attributes of our Republic, the state of law, is guaranteed in our Constitution, and it is an absolute decree that cannot be offered to be changed. According to the 10th article of our Constitution, everyone is equal to the law, regardless of language, religion, race, sect, color, gender, political thinking, philosophy. Again, in accordance with Article 174 of our Constitution, implementing the laws of revolution and raising society to the level of modern civilization is one of the main tasks of our state. The basic ideal of our state is the rule of law. This ideal is included in our constitution. Therefore, no matter what opinion or thinking, the Constitution, the laws and unwritten rules of society burden all of us with important assignments. Dear friends, in light of what I'm saying, I'd like you to take another look at the arrangement to allow the mufti to marry. The adoption of this clause is a violation of the open Constitution because it violates the spirit of our Constitution and the principles of secularism and equality of our Constitution, because our republic is based on the legal revolution. Eleven days from now, we will celebrate the 94th anniversary of the founding of our republic with the right to the basic tuition, the law, the basis of our faith, justice. Our women's freedom, equality and individuality are crowned by our republic. As with all human rights, women's rights are guaranteed by our republic's legal regime. This arrangement, however, is nothing more than diluted civil law, which gives our women important rights. The adoption of this arrangement will eliminate the legal union. Dear lawmakers, the law is prepared for two reasons: need and purpose. Did this arrangement come from a social need? No. It is suggested that this clause is designed to facilitate the marriage of our citizens, to ensure that they receive services easier and faster. I've been mayor for eight and a half years, and I've been a congressman for ten years. Every day I get different demands from our citizens in my region and in different parts of our country asking us to help. Our citizens want a safe and peaceful future, work for their children, food and bread. I'm sure you're faced with similar demands, but, President, the wedding is very busy, we haven't been able to get married. Please speed up the process, solve this problem. During the 18 years I was involved in politics, I've never encountered it in my entire political life. There's a marriage agency in our 81 district, 919 districts today. In our village of 18,332, our chiefs are having a wedding, so it's okay, no one's talking about such a need. Again, 626 thousand in 2015 and 615,000 in 2016. There's been a significant increase in marriage over the years, but there's been no pile-up in front of the wedding halls. So this arrangement was not born out of a social need. Then what's the point? Why all of a sudden? It's a different goal. The goal is to dilute the ideals of modern civilization, which our republic has crowned. It's the arrangement that's meant to be done that's the purpose of getting in the way of things that are going right. Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid this arrangement will also produce problems and social wounds between our clergy and our citizens, which will deepen polarization in society. Those of our citizens who are married to a religious wedding will be separated by the official wedding ceremony, and the pressure of the neighborhood will increase. There will be a two-way between our citizens and their families, who believe in different religions and sects, and who will perform the wedding before the marriage is married. The official marriage, however, is the guarantee of equality in front of the law. My fellow lawmakers, our objection is not to a religious wedding. Religious marriage is already free in our country. I, too, am a man who, in my faith, married an imam, believing in the sanctity of prayer. According to the TİKİK, 86 per cent of our citizens are free to perform their religious marriage after their official marriage. So there's no obstacle to a religious marriage, no objection. The focus of discussions is not on religious marriage. The problem is setting the stage for the ideology of conflict with the modern state of law. In fact, when I'm in charge of this arrangement, why are you sharing with our Home Secretary a matter of authority and responsibility with the Chairman of the Religious Affairs? Will you take responsibility for the negatives and problems that can happen as the Ministry? I asked, but I did not get an answer. Once again, I ask the Minister to answer my question. If such a problem really exists, if such a request exists, let's give the authority given to our village chiefs today to our neighborhood chiefs. The Mukhtars are also elected people and people who know our citizens best and who know their problems best. Let's give our neighborhood chiefs the authority, ask them if they can, so they can disappear. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, today we have a terror problem that is breaking our hearts. Our country has unemployment problems, one of every five young people is unemployed. 35% of our employees are off the books. We have 9 million needy citizens. Our pensioners, farmers, students, parents have problems. There's a fire growing every day beyond our borders. As Congress, we need to find a solution to all these problems. We want to live peacefully in our country, in peace with our neighbors, and we don't want our people to pay for the mistakes that have been made. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, our Founding Leader, wants to make peace in the yurt, peace in the world. For him, it should be our duty to have more than ever to have our Constitution, our secular law state, the principles of Ataturk, and the ideals of our Great Leader. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0303par0213	Thank you, Mr. Yalcinkaya. The second word for the groups belongs to İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu (Ismail) on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Aksu, please.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0304par0217	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the first part of the First Amendment to the Law on Population Services Act 497, and on the first part of the Charter on Some Laws. I salute the General Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. Today is October 18th, an important day for the Turkish Republic of Azerbaijan. At the beginning of my speech, I celebrate Azerbaijan's Independence Day. Again, tomorrow, October 19th, he celebrates Mukhtar's Day, and I wish all our leaders the best. Dear lawmakers, the development of IT technologies has brought up electronic state practices in public, as in many areas. This makes it possible for institutions to receive information they need from other institutions electronically, while allowing our citizens to perform their transactions in public institutions in the electronic environment. In view of the first part of the bill, it is understood that arrangements have been made to meet the needs of modern development and technological innovation and implementation. Some of these include the ability to deliver birth notifications to the health institution, to expand the authority to be a marriage officer, to be questioned through the e-state of population information, to hide court decisions on custody and custody of a person in electronics, and to reduce the workload of the court and to change their last name and last name, whose name and surnames have been wronged without the search of a court order. Dear lawmakers, it is clear that all these studies aimed at more effective conduct of business and procedures on population services, increasing speed and quality in the service presentation, providing citizen satisfaction and shortening bureaucratic processes make it necessary to make changes in the Population Services Act and other relevant legislation. As the National Movement Party, our election statement said that the adoption of electronic lifestyles in all aspects of life would result in facilitating population and citizenship jobs and the use of technology to improve the quality of service offered to our citizens in this sense. As a requirement of electronic lifestyle, it is stated that life will be facilitated by providing a smart card containing information on citizenship, such as population, education, health, social security, tax. And what we're highlighting here is the privacy of personal data. Because the safety of information is critical. In particular, information and communication security must be provided for those who provide, provide, or hide critical personal data, information, and documents, such as social security, address, identity, military, voters, and tax records. The 5th article of the bill also stipulates that birth notifications can be made to health care providers. According to this, birth notifications can be made by health care agencies, including the private sector. Population services, as it is known, are among the main tasks of the state, such as justice, security, defence, and deed operations, and should be conducted under the state's control rather than by health institutions covering the private sector of population records. Again, the appointment of family physicians to oversee statements can be a challenge in implementing them. In this direction, the population registration process containing personal data must be conducted only by the state and without raising any doubt about the protection of personal data. Dear lawmakers, the most controversial and different areas of the bill are the 6th amendment in Article 22 of Population Services Law 5490, which regulates the ability to marry. The main thing in the legal state is that the marriage contract is carried out within the law, and the legal framework in this area is defined by the Civil Law, as is known. The 141st article of Turkish Civil Code 4721 has been decided that the marriage ceremony will be held openly in front of the marriage agency, the marriage officer and two witnesses with the ability to distinguish, and that the ceremony can be carried out in other areas that the marriage officer will find appropriate upon the request of the wedding. Article 142 states that the format of the ceremony is arranged and that the marriage officer will ask each other whether they want to marry each other, that marriage will occur as soon as the parties give positive verbal answers, and that the officer will explain that marriage was done in accordance with the law by mutual consent of the parties. The arrangement with Article 6 does not contradict the existing requirements and qualifications of the marriage contract. It must not be forgotten that this authority is the official license to perform the wedding, and the interests will only be fulfilled in this matter. He who performs the ceremony is also a civil servant. The main rule of secular law is which rules are carried out by the officials, which, according to the Turkish Civil Law, will never be a secular situation as long as the state's official is executed by official officials. Besides, right now, the ideological and philosophical opinion of marriage officials is no one's concern, and its work is considered to be in accordance with the procedures and principles laid out in the Turkish Civil Law. The main thing in the marriage process is the public official and the official registration of the act with a statement of will in front of the witnesses. The new arrangement does not reform these principles, but allows the process to be carried out by mufti officials. In addition, those who get married have discretion, and they can get married wherever they want. The 22nd article, which regulates the marriage authority of Population Services Law 5490, states that the marriage officer may give the municipality's mayor, or the municipality's official, the municipality's mayor, the ministry's municipality's municipality of residence, and the administration of local population and citizenship, as well as the authority and duty of foreign diplomatic missions. I mean, there are also officers in the meri law who have been authorized to marry outside the city. This time, the law and the marriage authorities include the town and county muftülüm. The perception that this arrangement, which authorises mufti, is a religious marriage authority, is completely wrong. Dear lawmakers, our idea of nationalism, which is shaped by the history, culture, tradition, and the world of faith, is to constantly make sense of the existence of the national and spiritual values of the Turkish nation in the line that extends from tradition to the future. We see a sense of secularism based on freedom of religion and conscience, which respects the beliefs of citizens, as a guarantee of national unity and integrity. There is no doubt that the family institution is crucial in maintaining, sustaining, and passing on national and spiritual values to future generations, consolidating national integrity and solidarity. Our party opposes any real and legal discrimination and abuse that undermines women's dignity, restricts their basic rights and freedoms, leads them to abuses and fall behind in society. The arrangement, we hope, will help put an end to multi-gambling and off-the-book marriage that eliminates child marriage and legal protection for women. The arrangement will prevent difficult legal problems that can be corrected by religious marriages, family, women and children, which are carried out without an official marriage. We believe that this arrangement will increase the official marriage in our country, thus helping to cut off informal marriages and reduce women's abuse. As a result, we consider the official marriage power granted to the mufti to be a proper regulation of the legal state, secularism, legitimacy and social necessity. With these thoughts, I wish the bill to be good for our beloved nation, and I salute you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0305par0236	Thank you. On behalf of the groups, İstanbul MP Hüda Kaya is on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0306par0240	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear General Assembly, our MPs, I salute you all. As I begin my speech, yes, I have today made a pledge on behalf of the HDP on the first part of the Population Services Act. First of all, Mr. Naci Bostancı, a spokesman for the AKP group, drew such a profile of Turkey and Dianet in his speech that I had a feeling as to which Turkey I live in. ίDianet is equal to Islam, trying to create a perception. Criticism, opposition to this law is not opposition to Islam. I'd like to remind our people of the 80 million people who have been watching us. Yes, there are those who oppose this law with different references, and they will be. But it's strange that those who called it "Dianaete" yesterday during the AKP's ranks today should be giving blessed talks to the Diet. Isn't it the same religion that didn't make a noise about the ban on the headscarf yesterday, the same religion that doesn't sound like torture and injustice today? What's changed? Did the tradition of dialogue change, the Emevinist, the mantra, the references? Doesn't it still teach the myths of the Prophet and the false resources that make women and the people weak, in theology, in the imams? These sources have changed? Naci Bostancı said: "This is a family-responsive business. " This was one of the points that I was already stressing on the commission, here and at every moment. It's the law to leave women in the hands of the mind with the distorted conservative references. Every day in our country, when there are images that don't search Texas every day in society, and the society is about to turn into a sick society with blood images -- I can't say it's turned, my conscience still won't help -- artificial agendas are being created, and people are being presented with a drug, an eye-painting, a makeup, with religiously veiled sanctumism. In light of these facts, women's violence should end, while safe living opportunities for women should be developed, while women's killings should be prevented, while education and different studies should be done to provide gender equality and awareness for men of all ages, while power has surrendered to a sexist and male tradition, a mindset. These arrangements are not brought to make men's lives easier, but for women. It brings intervention in women's lives in order to make positive distinctions with men. See the environment in which the law on the marriage license of mufti was passed: 170 women and girls were killed in the first seven months of 2017. Is there a war? No. Is there a war between men and women? No. But somehow, the number of women who were murdered by their male relatives, especially women who wanted a divorce, is 170. In September, 28 women were killed by men, 28 of whom were injured, and I don't even list dozens of women who were abused, raped, and abused. These are the only ones that are reflected in the official number, given the unofficial ones, we all know that these numbers are the tip of the iceberg. Each of us in this community is aware of these facts. Twenty women killed in July alone, 28 in September. What does the Ministry of Family and Social Policy do when dozens of women are killed every month? He boasts about his activities, instead of trying to fulfill a future where women can breathe and live equally and honorably. The rights of women, such as divorce, will be made easier by giving the mufti permission to marry. I mean our women, but the women who will be the victims will be our women in conservative and traditional circles. Why? Look, we're taking promises from women who have different identities in the name of our party, Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP). I, a Muslim woman, express my objections by my own references, by my own window, by my own traditions, by my own values. Each of us may have a different representation, but we join hands in the struggle of all women. I would like to point out in particular that the issue of marriage authority for mufti would affect the future of women in the conservative and traditional environment rather than all women in our society, because women with modest life and references would prefer not to get married anyway, but women in conservative society would resort to muftu because they would be subject to more neighborhood pressure. At the point of divorce, it can be said that such a step will be taken tomorrow: You chose to be a mufti when you got married, and when you got divorced, you had to choose the law, the tradition of the mufti. The members of the Religion, who have already been raised as a traditionalist and Embittered reference, will intervene in the matter of the woman's divorce. I would like to point out in particular, dear friends, that I'm critical of a mentality when I say this, or I'm critical of the mufti, among the mufti, among the teachers, among the imams... that we, no individual, are looking at a point where their individual is targeting their own individual. It's out of the question to target individuals like Mufti, the teacher. You know, at our party, we have a substitute, like our beloved teacher, Nimethullah Erdoğ, who used to be a mufti. We also know that there are valuable individuals like him who are the voice of truth in many religious levels. I'd like to repeat that there's a particular emphasis on mentality here. The boys and girls in Anadolu listen to him. You've all heard his statement, you all know. That's exactly what I'm talking about. In conservative and traditional circles, the pressure of the neighborhood for young and women has been made public by the President himself. That's where I offer my reservations and criticism. When religious women, sovereign, male, religious, sexist, sexist, semi-godden religiousism, realize that they are not in harmony with the truth and recognize their own identity and authenticity, it does not come to the benefit of conservative traditional circles. In the same way that the truth was corrupted, it is tried to impose on women the same way in the days of ignorance that they did not prefer to live in the name of tradition, in the name of twisted beliefs. I'll finish my speech here. I don't want to leave the location unfinished. In Article 9 of the 9th article, I'll share the rest with you again. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0307par0257	Thank you. The first word for the individuals on the first chapter is from Cemil Jamal. Mr. Yaman, come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0308par0262	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the first chapter of the First Amendment to the Law on Population Services and Some Laws. On this occasion, I salute you. Turkey has a great potential for economic development because of its rich natural resources, entrepreneurial people, historical, of course, beauty and position. In addition, the innovations that technology brings are constantly implemented. Change is a whole, it has to be reflected in every area. Therefore, it is imperative that the laws be changed so that legal regulations can walk in good health. In the service presentation, the need to make arrangements in both the Population Services Act and the Citizenship Law, aimed at improving speed and quality, providing citizen satisfaction, shortening information security and bureaucratic processes. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as it is known, are in the most critical stages of our lives, such as birth, death, marriage, divorce, deed, inheritance. Legally, the family logs in the electronic environment will now have a single record of the individual. The records of the person and events, T.C. It will be linked to the ID number. Thus, the reduction of bureaucracy and the service presentation will be effective and efficient, while on the other hand, the establishment of the necessary links between the population records will be provided, preventing and controlling bilateral records. As a reason for today's changes, the cross-country population movement has also increased. It is imperative that certain procedures be carried out regarding the personal condition of foreigners. As in many countries, forms related to population events will be held at the time of the application of foreign population managers in Turkey. Under the new arrangement, health organizations can electronically approve information on the birthing of the child named after him. So the child will be born, the hospital will send a record of the child to the population directorate electronically, so that the family won't have to go to the population administration with a document. Under the authority and supervision of the Ministry of Interior, the municipality and village chiefs, population managers and foreign diplomatic missions are currently performing the ceremony. In addition, the county and county mufti are also authorized to marry. To bring this up, the wedding ceremony, the wedding provisions and the venues do not change, the existing provisions regarding the religious wedding do not change, only the county and county mufti will be added to state officials who have already been authorized to marry. Another benefit brought to you by this law is that children who are related to their father can be recorded in their father's household by the name and last name. Again, with this law, the General Manager is granted certain powers. The law enforcement force will be tasked with the order of the head of the property to investigate the people who may be dead. One of the innovations that will make our lives easier is that people can question the population records of themselves and their upper or lower offspring through the e-state gate and give the document they received via e-government to the authority. These documents will be a document of legal value taken from the Local Register Offices. The identity-sharing system has been created to allow relevant institutions and organisations to access the population records at Mernis. In this way, the relevant institutions and organisations will have access to citizens' identity information directly and rapidly in electronics. For example, we give hospitals, courts, foreign diplomatic missions, and marriage officials the authority to obtain both information and population approval in electronics. We thus pave the way for us to conduct operations electronically, without having to go to the population managers. Mr. President, valued MPs, we're adding another one to our legislative activities on the road to serving Turkey. I already wish this law to be a blessing to our beloved nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0309par0274	Thank you, Mr. Yaman. On behalf of individuals, the second and last speaker is Batman MP Ayşe Acar Başaran. Mr. Acar Başaran, please.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0310par0278	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. There's not a lot of people left in Congress to greet, so I'll greet the people on the screen, and I'll start like this. I mean, the fact that the House is so empty on such an important matter is also something that needs to be discussed. Because the power line brings us offers every time, but we're talking to an empty House. Well, my friends, we, especially in this last two years, in the case of women in particular, each time we discuss a set of laws because of the need of society, because of the situation within society. But we can't find the answer from this society, from whomever needs it, frankly, because if women really need it, we don't want men and men talking about us for how many days? They are protesting in front of parliament, saying, "We don't want a law called Muftüllik law, which is basically an imam wedding, which ignores a lot of women's gains and eliminates all of them." Women from all over Turkey, men, don't decide for us anymore. What you call the need of society, your needs; come and ask us. They say there is no answer. Of course, they can't say these things in an organized state because the State of Emergency, declared against the coup attempt on July 15th, was declared to women's institutions, declared to women's will, declared to women's organization, and shut down dozens of women's institutions. Because of this closure, women may not be able to come here and raise their voice, but even though those institutions have been shut down, we are organized not in buildings, but everywhere. So, who needs this? This law serves whom you call the accuser, as you call it, and you keep us busy here for days. So, what's underlying this mentality? For thousands of years, it's come from you men who've earned women's rights, molded society with male-dominated mentality, and spoken for women everywhere in these forms. Look, it's the law that concerns women the most, but if it weren't for a few women from our side of the opposition, only men here will talk. Well, I'm sorry about the women's issues, but why are you guys talking? The Minister of Interior said marriage is between men and women. Right, we know that, too, but we also know how these laws have consequences against women, and we also know how women bring these laws to a certain point in their great struggles. It's not just me, it's been decades, it's been hundreds of years of women's hard work, it's been a struggle, but in one day, you're trying to overlapping all the gains in one pen. What's the need? There's a lack of officers, people having trouble with transportation. Is he having trouble accessing the chief, or is there not enough staff in the municipalities? Well, can't you close the staff deficit in the municipalities? Is it necessary to give authority to the mufti or the imams that the mufti will somehow appoint? Is that the solution? Here's your only solution, as you always do, you offer nothing but separatist, separatist, separatist solutions. What's going to happen with the mufti wedding? Once, at an early age, you sort of pave the way for marriage. One step at a time, we know it, you're taking it step by step. The next step is, in fact, you pave the way for early marriage, with an arrangement similar to what you're trying to get into, or to marry rapes, rapists. Secondly, what are you doing? As a result of abuses, rapes, you provide a way for children born at an early age to be registered somehow, with my notice, to their grandmother, grandmother, or any relatives or first mate. One step at a time, in fact, you're attacking all the gains of women. We'll also discuss in society those who perform the Imam wedding and those who do not perform the Imam wedding. Well, is that necessary, to divide society so much? You've already divided enough, you divide society every day, every day. Do we need to divide it one more time? I don't think so. I expect women to get together on this and be the only voice against it. We women can unite and push it back, I believe. Again, I salute, especially what's happening on the screen.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0311par0291	Thank you. The talks on chapter one are complete. Now we're going to do a question-and-answer procedure for 15 minutes. We'll use half that time as a question and half as an answer. Here you go, Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0312par0295	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there are widespread allegations that some cities will be made into major cities, that town municipalities will be closed down, that some districts and villages will be merged. Is that the kind of work that's being done? Is it possible that the province of Niğde is merged with another condition? Have all the cities been processed? How much are the building stocks that are smuggled in? In addition, in our country, in 2017, how many people were given gun licenses? How much is a gun sale in our country that doesn't need a gun license? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0313par0298	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0314par0299	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've just asked you, as a result of the authorization to perform an imam wedding to the mufti in Article 6 of this bill, will there be a source for the mufti, which, as I said, serves for a certain sect and is part of the President of the Religious Affairs? Here's the thing: there's a service fee taken from our citizens as a result of official marriage proceedings. Is that the price to be passed on to the Chairman of Religious Affairs? I'd like you to answer that question. In addition, Mr. Secretary, in my meeting with members of the Atakent Women's Assembly in Küçükçekmece district who have been working to create sensitivity to women's problems, they are constantly being answered negatively by the City of Humiliation and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to report to you on the subject of separatist policy practices.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0315par0304	Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0316par0305	Thank you, Mr. President. My question, Mr. Secretary, is that in the latest police special ops, 10,000 men have been taken into special operations, women have not been taken. This is contrary to the principle of equality in the Constitution. In this regard, will you have any sanctions regarding the right demands of our daughters at the next hearing? Is there going to be a pick-up for women in police special ops? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0317par0308	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0318par0309	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey, which is the size of 24 million hectares, imports agricultural products from more than 100 languages. From Canada, from Greece, from Ukraine, from Ukraine, from Egypt the rice, from France the barley, from Russia the wheat, from Sri Lanka, from Ireland, from Ireland the lettuce, from Spain, from Austria the simental heifer, from the Arab countries. What's sadder is the fact that three foreign companies, which monopolize 50 per cent of the export of nuts in Turkey, are buyers and buyers, are being exploited by these companies. AKP power destroyed not only democracy, republic, freedom, agriculture and especially nuts. The survival of agriculture, nuts, depends on getting rid of the AKP. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0319par0312	Mr. Sugar... we're going through. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0320par0314	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there is a building in the district of Umraniye where the Police Department is located. The building is located in the centre of the city, where it poses a security risk as well as an intense impact on traffic. Do you intend to move this to a place where it's not a risk for security and not to be exposed to any attacks or anything like that and to relieve traffic? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0321par0317	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0322par0318	Mr. Secretary, you want to give the mufti the right to marry with the amendment to the Population Services Act. 1) It is a known fact that municipalities do this in the best possible way. Even though this is the case, why did you need to give the mufti the power to marry despite the enormous problems in our country? 2) Do you want to give messages to your voters by authorizing mufti to marry them? 3) Won't it be a mess in marriage services to extend the authority to perform a wedding? 4) Does not the authority to marry mufti violate the essence of our Constitution, the spirit of our civil law, and the principle of secularism? 5) Won't this authority create or cause discrimination in society? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0323par0326	Mr. Bassman...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0324par0327	Minister, how many Syrian immigrants are there in Turkey, how many are old enough and healthy enough to fight? But we're sending our soldiers to defend their country, I'm curious about that. And I'd appreciate it if you could tell me how many kids there are.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0323par0328	A lot of friends ask if you ask. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0325par0330	I ask the Minister: there are many Syrians living in our country and many of them are polygamous. What do you propose for these people to marry in accordance with our laws? You're going to approve of polygamy marriage? If you do, won't that set a precedent? Or how to share the inheritance of those who are going to have a polygamous marriage?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0323par0331	Mr. Wellercuoğlu... Mr. Irgil...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0326par0333	Minister, a lot of people are finding out that their passports were canceled by chance during their flight abroad, and that's when the complaints came to you. Of course, citizens are also trying to find out why this is happening in the state of law, because they don't know why, and most of them can't, and many of them are said to be on the ByLock list. There's been a lot of discussion about the ByLock people. There are allegations that some phone companies have misreported thousands of ByLock lists or had technical problems or that bylock is being downloaded while other programs are being downloaded into computers, while these people are very nervous and living under suspicion. Is there any kind of study to bring these lists to an immediate conclusion, to give freedom of travel back to those who have no investigation and no prosecution, without a court order? I wonder when this will end. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0323par0335	Finally, Mr. Sarihan, let's make you a promise. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0327par0337	Mr. President, thank you. The question I'd like to ask the Minister is that a young man named Deniz Bahçım (a student named Deniz Gardener) -- a student of the University, Dil, History, Faculty of Geography -- was kidnapped from the Academy of Geography -- was taken on October 10th by people who first introduced him as a black van, and then released him to people whom the police had introduced as the public security team. This young student was also severely beaten to death. What kind of research will be done on this child? Does a team called the public security team really exist? According to the student's description, we are stronger than the state and are representatives of the illegal organization. Is there any way that I.A....
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0323par0340	Thank you. Now, to answer the questions, I leave the word to the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Süleyman Soylu. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0328par0343	I'd like to start with the last question. So after I read about it in the papers, I gave instructions to my friends. I'll tell you this: whoever says we're stronger than the government knows how to measure him; this is the first. So no one can exercise that right on their own behalf, no one knows the law, no one knows the law, none of us will allow it, nor will the state allow it, nor will the law allow it. We don't have the patience for organizations like this to make evaluations in their own name; that's number one. Second of all, I just said I didn't have the numbers on these mob and organized crime gangs, but I'd like to give it to you. The number of operations dropped to 1,022 in 2014, 587 in 2015, 573 in 2016, 950 in 2017 as of now, as of October 2017. So he was seriously involved in catalog crimes from the recent TCK 220, including algebra and violence, and the previous one did not have algebra violence, which created various challenges. Secondly, the number of suspects was 65 in 2014, 59 in 2015, 37 in 2016, 37 in 2016, and so far the number of people involved in organised crime networks has not ended 70 in the past year, much more than the previous years. Again, the number of suspects arrested, that's...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0329par0345	They torture and broadcast videos!
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0328par0346	...129, 150, 210, 285, which is two and a half times more than last year, so I'd like to say that while we're fighting terrorism on the one hand, there's actually a serious fight on organised crime and mafia. There are more numbers. I don't want to drown the Rakama.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0329par0347	The mob boss tortures, releases video, social media, nothing's done!
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0328par0348	In particular, will there be a source for the muftus in exchange for their marriage transactions? (Except for the price of the family wallet -- which is being deposited in the Ministry of Finance, you know, it has its own way -- no charge is taken and will not be taken. Some municipalities only buy things about wedding halls. There's a question about PDH purchases. Ten thousand police special ops weren't really women's choice. Our friends have come up with an assessment that there's a reason for this. That was the only need at the time, but now, on both our daughters' intense demand for this and our own need assessment, you'll be able to use a woman's quota in PÖH purchases after the evaluation of our fellow lawmakers. At the same time, for example, 8,400 women have been taken, especially in the purchase of police women. We have a standard there, that standard will be 13,000 police officers, 1,200 of which will be women now; 2,200 sergeants are being taken, 200 of which will be women. So there's a scale that can evaluate the need for this. There are now 3 million,235 thousand Syrians. That's 1 million, 511,000, between 0 and 18 years old. A question like that came up. Of course, you're not supposed to find an assessment right. I mean, it's very manipulative. Let them go to war there. Let them fight there. Either a mind is being put up on one side that prevents them from fighting, and this is a very important policy for us to be in Cerablus, where we are now in Azez. And I'll tell you something else: right now, in the northern Iraq region of Avshin-Basyan and other bases on one side, our Turkish Armed Forces are putting up a big fight, and we are also martyring there. But I'd like to say this in front of the House that we have to meet some of the problems that we can face inside, two more, four. And here, especially from the north of Iraq -- they know the area well -- our map takes Derecik, on the one hand, Shemdinli and Çukurca. I mean, the one who came in, the one who came in, the one who came in, and the one who wanted Derecik... In the past few days -- if only he had been spoken of -- many times, there was a camp -- where people came to us, and the camp was bombed with mortars thrown out, and the children were injured, and people died. I'm very sorry to say it's our policy and the House here has not been too important. But man came to us, took shelter, and the people there were destroyed along with the missiles that the PKK had launched. And they know they're there. They were about 2,000, 2,500. And there are those who want to bring it into such a rating and try to create a trial between us and the people who have taken refuge and our own citizens. We must not allow this on our own account and on behalf of humanity. We have received guests, and, if you will notice, over 60,000 people have now returned to Cerablus, Azez. We're trying to make it easier to get there, and we're trying to prevent an attack on our country, including the PKK, including the DEA. Again, beyond that, there's a particular question about the gun license. The number of gun licenses is running low. So in 2015, the police department was licensed 100,836 weapons.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0330par0355	You don't have to. People buy shotguns for $300 online.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0328par0356	84,268 licenses were issued in September 2016. As of September 2017, 63,453 weapons licenses were issued.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0330par0357	Mr. Secretary, we don't need a gun license. People are buying it online.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0328par0358	Again, beyond that, especially when you look at the total population of licensed weapons in various countries, Finland is 8, Sweden is 6.7%; in our country, it is about 3%.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0331par0359	How much is an unlicensed gun?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0330par0360	What about the unlicensed weapons? People buy shotguns online, they're not on the record.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0328par0361	So I'd like to share this assessment with our friends in particular. About the Ümraniye County Police Department building...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0332par0364	Please, let's complete it, Minister.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0333par0365	We asked for the number of unlicensed weapons, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0328par0366	Is there such a thing as an unlicensed number of weapons? I'm sorry.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0333par0367	They sell guns, they sell shotguns.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0334par0368	They buy it online. They buy shotguns online, $300. He's gone, there, he's shot Helin.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0333par0369	They're turning blanks into regular guns.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0335par0370	Look, about five, six months ago, we did an evaluation of the shotguns, and we issued a statement, and we made arrangements in a decree of law. For about a year and a half, wherever there are gaps, we've been taking steps in this matter, especially with guns and shotguns.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0334par0371	Mr. Secretary, the boy just took it last week.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0335par0372	I had the numbers issued this morning, not about coming here, but about meeting with our friends. There are serious operations going on right now, and the next question is, if my friends show me their assessment of these shotguns and their weapons, or rather, the questions they're asking, they're all ready. There's no worsening here, there's absolutely no improvement here.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0336par0373	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0337par0374	Ours was the first question. Will the provinces unite or not? The people ask him, "Is there a union of provinces?"
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0335par0375	I'll give him an answer.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0337par0376	When?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0335par0377	I'll give it to you next time.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0337par0378	We don't ask in writing, we don't ask verbally, we don't ask verbally. It starts at the end, where it starts all over again.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0338par0379	Since it came from the end to the beginning, he didn't grow up at work. If you'd been a little bit more recent, you'd be in the system all the time.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0339par0380	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0338par0381	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0339par0384	Sure, I'll tell you two things, Mr. Secretary. One, of course, is that if their programs are appropriate, we have shared a group of proposals from the Republican People's Party tomorrow regarding individual arms, the risks that this poses in Turkey, and the establishment of a research commission over the tragedy that we experienced last week -- through Hellin. And in 20 minutes, this law will begin. If the Minister is going to be here tomorrow, if he's in the hall just before the law, listening to the discussion and the opinions of all the groups here, it would be very helpful. There is such an opportunity tomorrow, and we'd be delighted if they could arrive an hour ago. Second thing I didn't quite understand just now. In the last paragraph of Mr. Minister's speech, from now on, they'll see together how we won't look down on corrupt municipalities, whether it's from power or opposition, and then they won't be able to make a sound. He said something like that. Now, there's one thing about fighting corruption in local governments that's different, but if it's not a perception operation that the ruling party has been trying to get their hands on the municipalities, and it's not a one-year-old statement against it, we know how to go to our most common, most powerful municipalities with 280 inspectors and stay for three years and go back empty-handed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0340par0389	Please complete.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0339par0390	As the Republican People's Party, we have fully expressed our trust in our mayors, but when it comes to ruling parties, we have interpreted the mayor's statement today as resigning on the persecution he saw, not on the need he saw. In the future, if yours are the necessary thing and ours are the corruption thing, then you'll be running a perception management here. Whatever you're doing, whatever you know, you need to get it to the D.A.'s office without delay. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0340par0392	Yes, thank you. Mr. Secretary, if we don't have a quick answer, in a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0341par0396	It was a statement I made on an evaluation by your friend, but I want you to know that this is Congress, we don't run it, and we're being audited in a few circles. It's our duty to inspect the municipalities, and I'm telling you from here, we're starting a special inspection of the municipalities in Turkey, the ruling-migration. It's my duty, our duty. Unsupervised...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0342par0397	So far...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0341par0398	So far, for about two or three years, you probably know a lot more about Turkey's adventure than I do, and what we've been dealing with, and where our number of inspectors has fallen, and how we've been able to move on. And that lack of supervision, unfortunately, you should thank me for that, because you and I both know that in terms of municipalities -- whether it's CHP municipalities or other municipalities -- central administrations have as little control over this as possible. However, the state must demonstrate its own control. If anyone does wrong, it will be revealed, and if anyone does righteous deeds, it will be done, and no one will be offended by it.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0343par0399	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, this concludes the talks on chapter one. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. There are three motions on article 1, which I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the agreement be removed from the draft text of the public service of Article 1 (k) of Law Bill 497 which is currently in session. Open your mind, Zühal Topcu Kamil Aydın Mehmet Erdoğan Baki Simsek Mustafa Mit Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0344par0415	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0343par0416	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0345par0417	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0343par0418	Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0346par0421	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party to discuss the 1st Amendment to the Law on Population Services 497. I salute your high council. But before I begin my words, yesterday, we sent Adam Gezer, the son of my dear, dear fellowman, to heaven with his martyrs, the son of my friend Imran Gezer, whom we had martyred in Çukurca, the son of Hakkari. May God have mercy on all our martyrs in the name of Adam. May they rest in peace. Meanwhile, I offer my condolences to our fellow citizens, who have lost their lives in the mine, after their hard work, after their hard work, after their hard work of sweat and eye, and to their families and the great Turkish nation. Now, while Mr. Home Secretary is here -- I'll return to the relevant substance -- there's been a certain distance in the fight against terrorism, where our security forces, who are actually fighting for their lives, have, from time to time, given us some of the problems that they face in this struggle -- in which they face psychological superiority -- that will increase their morale motivation, and I'd like to convey to them from here. Mr. Secretary, our law enforcement forces, our friends, who are fighting under the name of TSK, both in your ministry, have some real issues with their rights. There's a sensitivity to additional indicators, especially considering there are no guarantees of post-retired life in law enforcement. Let's not rule it out, we say it all the time. In addition, we think that if they go home or work at night to ensure the family integrity of our law enforcement forces struggling in the region, at least they should have a priority if there's a sacrifice, if there's a sacrifice, if there's a sacrifice, if they're going to be able to have a hot soup with their families during the day. And to be more specific, special sergeants... Look, in the fight against terrorism now, thank God, the traps, the mines, we don't talk about them much, but we have to talk about more bitchy, more sneaky things from time to time. Our martyrs, for example, were martyred when a passing expert sergeant was a civilian, not on duty. Now, these sergeants of ours have a licensed gun problem. It is necessary to be helped in this matter... Again, we have volunteers and staffers in the area. Look, they're already people in that area, and they're at risk because they live in the same place at the same time. They want licensed gun problems and improvements on their rights. Why? Because both their families and themselves farm in that village. Haven't we lived in the past, years and years from now? One of their families was hurt, threatened or brutally murdered. So when you put all of this together, you really think it's extra funding, or overtime, or gun registration context, or side indicators, you say we need to put it on the agenda as some sort of healing exercise. Now, the relevant substance is a substance with the location names. And while we're at it, let's do it with a little attention to the experts, the sensitivity of the region. Look, sometimes -- let me tell you what I'm going through from my own constituency -- we take our eyes out when we're doing eyebrows. Some of the names of the places are, for example, the names of the neighborhood, the district, the town, the town, the nahiye, with a history, background, culture, and a song about it. We change them in one fell swoop, three people, an official with no sociocultural ties to that city, changing the name of that area, that neighborhood, that street, that street. Instead of doing this, let's really, really have a big consultation, and let's have a little sensitivity to these names in a proper way to the tissue. If you want a concrete example, I'll give it to you. We've got a town of Sainties.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0347par0429	Minister, listen.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0346par0430	His previous name was Ilıcalı, so don't let Mr. Mustafa Ilıcan take credit for it. It's the name of a county with an ancient history. Mr. Secretary didn't listen to this, but I think from the records... that was a very important thing, and I wish we'd asked as a question, a minute from there, it would have been more effective. Now, look, what happened? All of that, the history, the culture, the tradition, the vision, was thrown aside, something was put in front of us, and none of us knew the name of this county. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We expect sensitivity in this matter as well. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0348par0437	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and recommend that Article 3 (c) of Law 5490, which has been replaced with Article 497, in accordance with the 497 rows of the bill. Nihat Green Kemal Zeybek Hayati Tekin Gürsel Erol Burcu İksal Murat Minister Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0349par0449	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0348par0450	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0350par0451	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0348par0452	İstanbul MP Gamze Akkuş İlgez has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Whitebird Illustration.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0351par0455	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today we are discussing a bill that will condemn our women to absolute silence. We witness the construction of a new gender regime, the creation of a woman without women, a law without law. Today, the woman's life, her existence, her rights, her honor, and how to marry are always discussed by men. Two centuries ago, in the days of Tanzimat, Ahmet Cevat asked: "The law of Islam has given the woman a great law, but can we give the law to women properly? This is the most painful sign of male justice that has ever existed in the 21st century. We know that you have a problem with the Civil Law; you can't digest it, you can't make peace with it; you want to get into the sherry law; giving the mufti the authority to marry is a step, but when you look at Islamic law, you'll see that marriage is not religious, it's not religious. Therefore, in Islamic law, there is no obligation to marry religious leaders, which is not required to go to imams or women for marriage, even in Ottoman law-run sherry. Yes, the Ottoman wedding was performed by imams, but that's because they know how to read and write at a time when reading and writing is not common in every neighborhood. So in Ottoman times, the marriage of imams is not a requirement of religion, it is a sociological task of civilized life. Naturally, I'd like to ask you: why do you need to give the mufti this authority when there are enough municipal officers in Turkey? Is it to legitimize imam-haters that you open by shutting down public schools but you can't fill them? To open new jobs for these graduates in order to be observant? Because how else can we interpret the appointment of graduates from health to social services, from dorms to prisons in all areas? I ask: What will happen if the mufti marry? Will our country become more viable? People's faces are gonna smile? It's obvious what's going to happen, and even if you argue the opposite, we're recording the Imam weddings. When you say that, you're actually making religious marriage mandatory. Yeah, well, you've already taken the first step out of the TCK, which is considered a felony to the Imam wedding. And now you're going to religiousize the institution of marriage by putting weddings in the fetal order. Look, did you hear that one of them took Ayþe and Mehmet's marriage to the municipality? What are you going to do when the other one says, "Woe to the heathen?" Come on, precious Regents, don't separate it like that. Are you going to give the mufti the right to divorce tomorrow by saying the burden of judgment is too heavy? So I gave the men the right to say, "Don't worry. I got married in front of the court. I don't answer in front of the court. In other words, if the church can marry, why can't the mufti do it? Friends, it's been centuries since the church became secular. If there is no state wedding in Europe today, the church will never have a religious wedding, and those who do not comply will receive fines and prison sentences. In our country, there are still thousands of women living in an imam wedding. On the other hand, the reason for the church wedding after the state wedding is because, according to Christians, a marriage that did not take place before a spiritual authority is not valid. For marriage is an expression of the holy union of Jesus Christ with the church and with God. However, such approval is not needed in Islam as the most advanced religion on earth, so there is no need for these polemics. What's to be discussed today is why women in our country were left behind, even though they had their rights many years ago. Today, we write a note in history, which is contrary to the Constitution. With this authority, it promotes children's brides, promotes polygamy, legalizes child abuse, renders civil law, neutralizes honor killings, leaves children vulnerable, encourages abusers, gives them legitimacy in the mind that tries to reform women. As a result, in the dark streets of discrimination, we are faced with a new step in pushing our women out and out. And your data tells us that because there are still hundreds of women all over the country who are now dead and abused. In contrast, the ancient history of Asia Minor whispers different things in our ears for thousands of years. Look, for you women, she is the wife of a man. She says that Haji Bektas is the equal of a woman in the Middle Ages. The same Hajji Bektas says, "Get your daughters to read, and the road that does not go from knowledge is dark." You keep the stick on the back of the woman. When you say, Neþet Ertaş, the poet of this land, I have two great blessings: one my mother and one my beloved. With my belief that Turkey's accumulation of enlightenment will tear up the darkness and this bill, respect the women because she is the mother of mankind, I salute the House.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0352par0467	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the 497 rows of the Law shall be replaced in the same form as the one in the 1st article (c) on the bench. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Ziya Pir Huda Kaya Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Muslüm Doğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0353par0478	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0352par0479	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0354par0480	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0352par0481	Diyarbakır MP Ziya Pir has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Pir.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0355par0484	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this is the speech I've prepared, but I'm going to reverse it; it's just been referred to as religious references, and I'd like to get on with it. As HDP MP, I'm speaking here. Let's all brush up on our knowledge of science. Now, we're talking about powers to be given to the mufti here, so they can do the official wedding if this law passes. Now, before you make a law, before you make a law, of course there's a simulation. So while I was thinking, I did a simulation, and I said, in our religion, I'm from that neighborhood. I don't come around much right now because of your followers, but I'm from that neighborhood. Is it possible for men to have more than one marriage according to our religion? It's possible in our religion, isn't it? If he meets certain conditions, his second wife may receive a third, fourth wife, if she can meet certain conditions. Now, think of something: A person, a man, with a woman, is going to go to the mufti with his witnesses, and he says: "I am going to have my official marriage. All the papers are ready, and he will just go there and sign his signature, and then he will pray for the religious marriage to be fulfilled. That's it, okay? Okay. He signed it, his papers went to the population, so that's it. An hour later, the same man, the same man, with the same witnesses, came to the kitchen with another woman, sat in front of the kitchen, said: "Mr. Inspector, I've just had an official wedding but now I want to have a religious wedding with another woman. What will the Mufti do with another woman?"
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0356par0487	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0355par0488	What's the mufti gonna do? Will he say yes as a man of the cloth, or will he say no as an officer of the secular republic?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0357par0489	We don't give that kind of authority, we don't give that authority right now, we know what he's gonna do.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0355par0490	Guys, can this happen or not?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0357par0491	What the law says he'll do. If he says that, why are you mowing underwear on an unborn child?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0355par0492	Oh, is that okay? We're simulating.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0357par0493	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0358par0494	He's giving a normal example.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0355par0495	Is that possible? It's possible. This will happen in every city of Asia Minor, and this will happen in every city.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0359par0496	He's saying something very important.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0355par0497	What's he gonna do with this mufti, Mr. Secretary, the bureaucrats? You're making such a law, but what will you do if that man comes in an hour with a second wife, a woman, and you marry me religiously?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0360par0498	If he performs the wedding, what will he do, what will he be responsible for, is he punished?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0361par0499	First he asks for an official wedding.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0362par0500	Whatever's being done now, it's being done then.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0363par0501	As an officer of the secular state, will he say no as an officer of the secular republic, or will he say yes as a man of the cloth? Yeah, that's a big deal. There are people among you who have this information, so answer this. Another simulation...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0364par0504	How does he do it now?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0363par0505	Yeliz knows better than that, so don't say anything.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0365par0506	What about the responsibility, the sanction?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0363par0507	Now, let's do another problem, another simulation, another simulation. A Muslim man may marry a woman who believes in the four books, believes in the Book of Truth, and according to our religion, it is consensual, and she is in no condition to renounce her religion. That man went and sat in front of her and the witnesses. What's it gonna be? Can the mufti perform this wedding, the official wedding? Yeah. Can he perform a religious wedding according to our religion? Yeah. It's all right up here, but think about it. A woman, a Muslim woman, wants to marry a Christian man. He doesn't have your knowledge, he's going to the front of the kitchen. The Muslim woman cannot marry an illegitimate man according to our religion, not according to our religion. He sat in front of the kitchen. What's he gonna do?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0366par0508	He's going to have an official wedding.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0363par0509	He'll do his official wedding, and then, he'll say... I'm sorry, you're separating people, polarizing people with this again.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0366par0510	The simulation is mixed up, Mr. Pir.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0363par0511	Don't laugh, look, I've lived in them abroad, I've lived in a Christian country, we've experienced them all, you're moving them to Turkey.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0367par0512	Withdraw the law. Actually, the law needs to be withdrawn.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0363par0513	Guys, don't get into things like this without these simulations. You're putting your own officer in a very difficult position. Are you a secular officer or a religious scholar? You're splitting him in half, you're splitting him in half, you're making a decision, you're putting him in a difficult position. Don't give it to the mufti, give it to others, there's no problem there, but you're putting the mufti in a difficult position. I've got 15 seconds left, and there were other things over there, but I'll leave it to other substances. But when everyone gives the mufti these powers, let's brush up some knowledge, so you don't have to listen to them from a HDP MP. My respects.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0368par0518	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions on Article 2 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In this case, we propose and propose that the declaration of the Law be removed from the draft text, which is included in Article 2 of the Law Bill 497. Baki Simsek Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Mustafa Mit Zühal Topcu Open Mind Mehmet Erdogan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0369par0528	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0368par0529	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0370par0530	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0368par0531	Ankara MP Mustafa Mit demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mit.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0371par0534	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on behalf of the Law on Population Services Act 497, which has been discussed, and on behalf of the National Movement Party of the Law on Changes in Some Laws. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the bill stipulates that a new regulation must be made in the Law on Population Services No. 5490 and Turkish Citizenship Act 5901 in order to be carried out more effectively, to increase speed and quality in the service presentation, to ensure citizen satisfaction, and to shorten bureaucratic procedures. The bill, brought together as a whole, is appropriate and useful in meeting the needs of technology and the needs of the age. The most prominent and most controversial part of this bill is the addition of county and county mufti to public officials who have been given the authority to marry. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, are the marriage officers in the current practice, the mayor's or the mayor's officers, and the chiefs in the villages. In addition, the Ministry of Interior is able to give municipal population and citizenship managers, foreign diplomatic missions, the right to marry and duty. In addition to those listed above, the Ministry of Interior has also ordered the district and county mufti to give them the right to marry. As all the public officials listed above are members of this community, the mufti are members of this community, which is considered to be a member of the public office. In this regard, some public servants are acceptable and some are not acceptable. It is very wrong to be offered like this, and it is not appropriate for the life we live. Essentially, the decree of God is that the marriage institution of the Prophet, which begins with the tribe of the Prophet, be taken into marriage and that the registration of the marriage to the population register be made by the mufti, who are also a public official, be subject to secularism and law. Two marriages are still held in our country with the names known to the public: First, a formal wedding; second, an imam wedding. Almost all of our citizens are married in this way. It will be a great relief for our citizens to be able to marry the mufti. On the other hand, after a study of whether he was married or not, he would be subject to legal restrictions after determining whether there was an obstacle to their marriage. The consummation of a religious and legal marriage at the same time will prevent marriages from being married in a society without consent or consent. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, the conditions for the marriage are the consent of the parties, the publicization of the parties, the testimony, and, fourthly, the provision for the protection of women. These conditions are legally ill-advised. Established by public officials who have information on this issue, the law and religion will also provide support and legal responsibility to the parties. Dear lawmakers, a single record of the individual is being held in the family logs held electronically by the second article of the bill. I salute you all by saying it is clear that this account, which will be created with an ID number, will prevent many complications.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0372par0541	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and that a single record of the person and the person and incident records in Article 2 of Law Bill 497 shall be kept in accordance with the identity number of the Republic of Turkey. In the keeping of a single record of the person and incident records associated with the identity number of the Republic of Turkey, we propose and recommend that they be changed to the identity number of the Republic of Turkey. Sibel Yiğitalp Ziya Pir Mehmet Ali Aslan Müslüm Doğan Mahmut Celadet Güda Kaya Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0373par0553	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0372par0554	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0374par0555	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0372par0556	Diyarbakır MP Siegel Yiğitalp has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0375par0559	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. And I've just been proud to be a member of the People's Democratic Party again. In particular, I was very happy to work with a co-host and indeed, a paradigm member of our male paradigm, who, in a climate, transcended the male mentality of male violence and murder every day in society. I'd like to start by saying that. There was just an argument here, Mr. President, that you said that this was the House and that at the same time, this is not the court of justice, and that no matter what, you never, ever, ever accepted the accusation that someone is guilty, that they're going to be accused, that they're going to be accused, that they're going to be accused. Again, to be accused like this without a court order... one way or another, not just for these, but look, there have been many days. Again, in this minor, you have stressed that there are all kinds of legislature activities here, and that the law should be respected, never, ever accused. That's good, that's good, that's good, well, I'd like to ask you, not the right to be strong, but the strength of being right. You may be on the side -- as you are on the side -- but at the same time, you have the responsibility to run this place fair and conscientiously. Look, our Co-Chair has been in court for 259 days, ten days from now, about a year from now, and he hasn't been in court from his arrest yet. So, I'm asking you: why don't you show the same sensitivity to our lawmakers, because they're in prison? Since you've said these sentences, shouldn't you be fulfilling the practice and responsibility of these sentences? Or when it comes to asking for words from here, you see your side, and you see the other side, and you see the other side, and you get a say in it, and yet, if it's something you don't like, you ignore our side, and you approach it with a full-scale mentality, and it's just this manly mentality that's all around the community. I suggest you...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0376par0562	Is that what you're talking about in the law, in this article, Mr. Yigitalp?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0375par0563	Yes, that's a very important thing. Justice and conscience are the bleeding wounds of this country.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0377par0564	What's the suggestion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0375par0565	Unless you make a statement about this justice and conscience, in a society today where men's violence, 30 women a month are killed, as you have not made a law that will stand in the way of these things, it is you and this one who are in charge of the first degree. That's what I'm saying in order to tell you what your practice is. If you think this practice will bring justice and conscience to this community, let me repeat that it will never happen. Just to say, when this law comes, 39 or 29 women a month are killed on average, 32 women are killed, there are men's murders, will that prevent it? Will the child stop their marriage? I say children's marriages in quotes, they're actually abuse.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0378par0567	We're way ahead of the world on these things, way ahead of the world.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0375par0568	Will it solve the problems of Alevi, Muslims and non-Muslims and their own beliefs and sectarian differences? Mr. Secretary just said, "We're doing it to reduce the bureaucratic process." Because of the geographical conditions, the official marriage is prevented, so that's why we're doing this? I want to ask: What geographical conditions prevented marriage? How many victims have wanted to get married and come to you? Would you mind telling me that, I'm really curious. Or why was it given to the mufti? If you have to give it to the Ministry of Health, give it to the Ministry of National Education, why the mufti? What does this have to do with the muftu? I mean, every logic...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0379par0570	What's wrong with you?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0375par0571	Because you're building a new regime.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0380par0572	Ask your constituent in the area where you've been chosen if he wants the Ministry of Health or the mufti?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0375par0573	Look, our male MP friend just asked you a question, you couldn't answer it; you're feeling the desperation of not being able to tell from both perspective and perspective of life, no matter where you look at it.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0380par0574	No, no, on the contrary, we're talking about what we're talking about, and you don't want to understand.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0375par0575	We've seen it so well, there's despair of not being able to tell, there's practice of not being fair, and there's practice of not being conscientious. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0381par0578	Thank you. Sir, I'm being fair and conscientious.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0375par0580	It doesn't matter if I don't feel it.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0381par0581	I'm trying to run this House in accordance with the rules of the Civil Code, and it doesn't mean you're right to state them.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0375par0583	That's what you said.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0381par0584	Besides, we don't have any jurisdiction over anything that concerns the judicial authorities, and we don't have anything to say here, so I'm sorry.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0375par0585	When it comes to the HDP, the judiciary...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0381par0586	No, everyone knows exactly what they're doing.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0375par0587	We know.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0381par0588	Everyone will know exactly what they're doing, and no one in this country is irresponsible, including me, and each of us, including you, has to act in a sense of responsibility.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0375par0589	Mr. Davutoglu used to talk like you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0381par0590	I run this House entirely in accordance with this Civil Code. You may not be able to come into your account, you may not see fit, it's in your appreciation, but all of Turkey knows the public knows, and Parliament knows that you'll probably bear witness that I run this House in the best possible way, I don't know. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0375par0593	We'll take care of him.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0382par0594	Mr. President, I'd like to take a word with you about that fair administration of yours.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0381par0595	Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0375par0596	Yesterday you said I'll decide.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0381par0597	Look, I see you, I'm not running. I mean, they were very unfair, and I'm also conveying my regrets to Mr. Yigitalp.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0375par0599	Maybe. There's nothing to do.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0381par0600	Please...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0383par0603	Mr. President, it's possible you'll be applauded now, but it's possible you'll be criticized. I mean, it's not like you're allowed to get applause from different places, but when a review comes, please, just look at yourself for once and don't respond with any other accusations because you're sitting...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0381par0604	But he ran the whole speech through the indictment.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0383par0605	No, don't answer any more accusations, because you're in another position, so you're not there as a party. Not when Mrs. Pervin is found, not when Mr. Akif is found. So, really, sometimes you think you're fair, but there are times when you're not. We're not just saying this as sides, and we're not just saying this to get you in front of us. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Because that's not gonna help us. So instead of taking our word for it, it's going to make you more biased, that's our attitude.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0381par0608	Look, I...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0383par0609	I mean, the criticism...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0381par0610	Let's turn on the mike, guys. Let him talk.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0383par0611	So critique, I'm afraid, in this society, is not an easy thing to digest. This isn't just about you, it's about you in general. I've just made the same criticism about responsibilities, about taking responsibility. It's really hard. We need more ways to do this, but really, if the MPs of a party, the members of the group, are criticizing you, then, please, at times, think about if there's something they're really right about. I would've done it personally. I suggest it be done.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0381par0612	You would, but you're not doing that right now, I'm afraid. You're not doing it right now. It's completely...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0383par0613	My respects.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0381par0614	All right, all right. I really think it'd be good if you guys did it from time to time.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0384par0615	Criticism improves all of us, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0383par0616	I hope he improves.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0381par0620	I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Heroalp and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the person and the witness of the incident report, which is included in Article 5 (3) of Law 5490 in Article 2 of Bill 497, shall be replaced in the form of the incident record. Zeynel Emre Murat Minister Burcu Koksal Kemal Zeybek Nihat Yeşil Gürsel Erol Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0385par0631	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0381par0632	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0386par0633	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0387par0634	Mr. President, I'm sorry. Minister, in the beginning of forty years, Mr. Zeynel Emre. Mr. Zeynel had a request, accept it. This will be the first, Mr. Secretary. He's had one request from you for two and a half years, and he's been on this motion.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0388par0636	İstanbul MP Zeynel Emre has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Emre.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0389par0639	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yesterday, during the group talk, Mr. Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım told opposition municipalities: "I have not done it. This is a funny X-ray of AKP, to be honest with you. He's got a microphone coming his way. I didn't do it. It's called a minute, brother. It's called politics, no style. The Prime Minister is trying to align his own municipalities with our municipalities, saying, "I didn't do it. I didn't do it." Look, their own ministers have decided to raise 40 percent. Their chief also told them that I had done no such thing. He said, "I have done no such thing." He made a statement aimed at the raise. In fact, there's one thing that's as clear as glass, and that's what they say is Dervis's idea is. I did it, Erdogan. And whether they like it or not, Erdogan. When we search their sentences online, anyone in their right mind will suffer the consequences. I'll give you a few examples. Look, Mr. Erdogan said that the Taxi Barracks will be done in accordance with its history whether they want it or not. Whether they want to or not, Ottoman will be taught in this country. He said, "It has not been learned." Whether you want to or not, we will rise above the level of troubled civilizations. He said, "We couldn't rise to that level." Whether they want it or not, Turkey is going to go through the roof of the economy.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0390par0643	We didn't have any bases.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0389par0644	Whether they want it or not, the 18-25-year-old youth is preparing for Parliament step-by-step after April 16th. By the way, we can't afford to look at what the ministers say when the president talks like that, and it's not hard to guess. Over there, the vines continue to cut. I don't follow your decision in one sentence, and I don't respect it. The era continues. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In other words, I didn't do it. When we looked into it, you got more results, whether they like it or not, because I said, "What's his idea?" That's his point. In fact, at first, it may seem as though there is no room for authority as the basic argument, but it's not enough of the languages that we know to say that it really is. In fact, if we try to explain it last week, the court is fairer in Turkey than in the West. Or of course, there is justice in Turkey. Like the words, it can even be considered that we mock. Is it as if Mr. Erdogan is good when he's coming to the palaces for Gravity, is it a problem when he's leaving? But at the same time, it's a deep contradiction, such as the fact that he's interfering with the election results with his power, and that he's in violation of his own constituent's vote, and that he's firing the mayors, the prime ministers.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0391par0648	The motion, the motion...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0389par0649	Because I didn't do it. The original translation of his words means, "Is there any one who looks at me sideways?" Dear friends, as the final example of this, today's statement will pass through the House, whether you want to or not, in order to arrange the wedding for the mufti. In fact, this sentence alone is an excellent example of oxymoron because it is spoken of and discussed in Congress. There is no sentence like this, whether you want it or not, without speaking, without consultation, without asking, that can't be spent, that can't even come to mind. In fact, when you say these words, it's only natural that the women gathered at the door of the House should be sprayed with gas, because at the top of the state, we have hanged and cut. If there is any behavior, of course, our women will be sprayed with gas. What's the matter? To give the mufti the power to marry. Look, Istanbul is now listed among the 10 most dangerous cities for all women in the world - cities like Jakarta, Cairo, Lagos, Karachi. A president of this country can make some descriptions of hell when it comes to shaking hands with foreign women. We're going through days of violent intervention in public transportation. Clothes, pregnancies, everything is treated as a problem. Look, there's so much going on in Turkey that it's going to be said about this. In the matter of the daughter-in-law, we are 55 percent among the 155 countries. Again, I don't want to bring up the countries we've been associated with here. Whether you want to or not, we're going to go above the level of troubled civilizations. It's free, of course, but on the lists, unfortunately, we're at the lowest in statistics.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0392par0654	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0389par0655	So at least keep your own words in mind whether you want them or not. I did it, I didn't. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0393par0658	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit Article 2 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Mr. Mush, please, according to 60.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0394par0664	Mr. President, he's just made some statements to our president, and I'd like to say I'm sorry to have to listen. We'll raise Turkey to its level of conquistadors, bring Turkey to its rightful place. He claimed that there were some choice statements from here, and that in the face of some social events, what we were saying, and that we couldn't do those points, either. Now, do I have to go out there and tell you this: you can't bring this to Parliament about the April 16th referendum, we won't change it, we won't prevent it, we won't allow it... but it has happened, and now I have to tell you that? In that respect, I think we'd be more useful to the House and to the community if we talked about the issues we were talking about. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0393par0666	Thank you. Mr. Special, I'll give you one for the same reason. Here, according to 60.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0395par0670	Mr. President, on the way to the April 16th referendum, more than 60 per cent of the parties that would support the referendum were over 65 per cent, 62, the latest public investigations were over 65 per cent, and you kept up with the Parliament and I'll get from my nation and there won't be any trouble. The only man left to complement the presidential ambitions. You didn't live like a referendum on April 16th, you turned it into a general election, but each thesis produces its own antithesis, the first general election in front of us is a referendum...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0396par0671	The defeated wrestler is not satisfied with wrestling, and your back is still on the ground.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0395par0672	...and he'll fail the one-many integration test. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0397par0677	Now there are three motions on Article 3 that I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the information on custody and custody, which is added to the first joke of Article 7 (i.e. the first verse of Law #497) with the 3rd Article of the Charter of 497. Nihat Green Burcu Koksal Şenal Sarıhan Murat Minister Kemal Zeybek Gürsel Erol Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0398par0687	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0397par0688	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0399par0689	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0397par0690	Ankara MP Senal Sarıhan has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0400par0693	Dear friends, from now on, I'm just going to call out because we have to compete over time. Please don't call it disrespect. Since this morning, we've been discussing the bill that we've been discussing since noon, we've all turned around and talked about the authority given to the mufti that led to the apocalypse. A lot of things have been said and a lot of things have been said about the violation of secularism. I'd like to present an assessment of a few things to your knowledge: Dear friends, the lack of any understanding of any religion and norms in the organisation of a state, the establishment and the establishment of its law, and the lack of effective, and norms of governance are a substitute for the concept of secularism, which is that any religion is not impressive, guiding the legal system. Now, we're looking at this problem that we have, that we're discussing, that our friends talked about 1917, and they talked about 1924. To make good use of time, I will refer only to the Constitution's Article 136. Who? It's the foundation of the Head of Religious Affairs. In accordance with the principle of secularism, he performs the duties shown in his special law by staying out of all political opinions and thinking and seeking national solidarity and integration. Well, there's a law that's never spoken, what law is that? The Law on the Foundation and Missions of the Chairman of Diet Affairs No. 633. Dear friends, do you know what this law says, do you know how it defines the duties of the Ministry of Religion? It says: "Object 3" takes over the duties of the President, effectively carrying out the duties and duties of the 7th Amendment service units, where he counts only the duties and powers of the clergy, the preachers, the imams, and all their duties in the mosques of religion. Now, with your amendment to this bill, you are violating a law, as you have violated the Constitution. Despite the regulation of the law, we've talked about this a lot in the Commission, dear friends, and I've summarized, I said, religion and the work of the world. This is a world's work, marriage is a world's work. When you give the work of the world to a public official -- being a public official -- it's not enough -- you literally violate the rule of secularism that is guaranteed in the Constitution, you allow religion to intervene in the world business, which we gave up 90 years ago. Now, I'd like to point out that maybe when I get my word back, I'll go over it: for three days, we've tried to watch the commission with our dear friend and other female friends. I was amazed by the MHP. Why did he leave you astounded? Our friends from the MPP spoke the truth at the police station, and they were astonished at the assembly. (CHEERING) How's that? I was thinking about picking it up a little while ago, I think, page 62, open it up, and they have their own explanation there, and they say: "Yes, the 6th article is against the law, it's wrong to set it this way." I wonder if it's affected this way.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0401par0699	Shame, shame, not so much anymore. You're talking dirty!
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0400par0700	We know it, we're playing it on purpose, because the majority raises their hands and the majority raises their hands without listening to us, and we know that very well.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0402par0701	You know that, but why won't it pass? Then calm down and sit down.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0400par0702	But with no credible grounds for an opposition party, which I'm about to mention in Article 6 when I get my word, I'll tell you about it.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0403par0704	They're gonna ask you!
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0404par0705	If you'd read it, you'd be convinced of the explanations, but you don't read the explanations.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0400par0706	It's a total setback, it's not legal.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0404par0707	The deputy chief of the group has an explanation, there are speeches, you don't read any of them, and then you recite them.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0400par0708	I don't want to make any further sentences. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0404par0711	You're operating on perception?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0405par0712	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0406par0713	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0405par0715	The Congressman has made a clear statement, and I'd like to respond.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0406par0716	Here you go, Mr. Akçay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0405par0721	Thank you. The National Movement Party is not going to learn from the congressman what kind of attitude he's going to take. Lawmakers also carry out their commissions, free of the idea, free of conscience, and have no commitment to groups. There are two commissioners in Internal Affairs of the National Movement Party, and our very valuable Muğla MP, Mr. Mehmet Erdogan, has made his contribution and expressed his opinion in this Commission, and has also given the mufts the authority to perform this marriage; this is the incident. As our Nationalist Movement Party, in my statement to the press on October 5th, the following week, we said that we were acting as two groups of presidents again, and yesterday, in a speech on the entire bill on behalf of the group, as we made it very clear, we support the 6th article as the National Movement Party. (MHP and AK PARTY) We certainly don't see anything secular. We don't have to think like the Republican People's Party. I respect your opinion, your opinion, but we also respect the attitude, attitude, and play of the National Movement Party. That's all there is to it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0407par0725	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0408par0726	I'd like a quote from the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0405par0727	Sir, there is no bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0409par0728	He picked on me while he was still there.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0410par0729	Wait a second... Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0411par0731	I'd like a quote from the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0412par0732	If they're trying to create polemics on this, we'll also expose the contradictions of the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0410par0733	Wait, I promise you, not according to 69, but according to 60, according to 60. There was no bullying. You asked, and I'll give you my word from your place to 60.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0411par0734	If you'll excuse me, I'll...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0412par0735	Sir, no teasing, you can't.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0413par0736	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0414par0737	Wait, I'll be the judge of that. Mr. Akçay, I'll be the judge of that.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0412par0738	Yes, Mr. President, you decide, but there is a situation.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0413par0739	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0414par0740	Now, here's the thing: you've made a public taunt of the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0415par0741	Mr. President, I didn't make a move, I told a fact.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0414par0742	And they arose, saying, "We will make this decision." And he expressed his conviction as a group.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0415par0743	I told a fact, I didn't pick on it. I didn't say anything that wasn't real.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0416par0744	What did he say, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0414par0745	He didn't say anything about you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0417par0746	So we answered, sir, what are you still holding out on?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0418par0747	He's right at the station, he's surprised at the Clave!
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0414par0748	Look, I'll give you my word according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0419par0750	I'm just saying, with all due respect, courtesy, and the word "efficiency" against all lawmakers, and a orator who doesn't use a language except in the first person.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0414par0751	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0419par0752	...the speakers of the nationalist movement party are both notorious and you don't do that...... it's hurtful once. Do not address us in that language, for you do not speak this language.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0420par0753	What is it that tells the truth in the police station, and is surprised in the assembly? What kind of courtesy does he fit in?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0419par0754	I also condemn this language used against a woman's MP as an opposition MP.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0421par0755	Get on with it, get on with it! Who are you to condemn me?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0422par0756	I don't agree with that, no.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0423par0757	Mr. Sarihan, enter the system.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0422par0758	There, on the stand, you're gonna say everything, you're not gonna do that. On the stand, but to the nationalist movement party...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0424par0759	He speaks the truth in the border, and is amazed in the assembly. What courtesy does he have?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0425par0760	Mr. President, the speaker's speech has been extremely abusive and rude. So we responded to that taunt.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0426par0761	No, no, of course he'll answer. I said something else. I said something else. I said something else.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0427par0762	No, it's not right to accuse a member of the National Movement Party of accusing a member of the group of pressure.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0426par0763	I said something else. I said something else. Besides, parties are bound by opposition statements, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0427par0764	He'll be polite to speak there.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0428par0765	Dear Private, please... We promise Mr. Sarıhan, according to 60.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0429par0767	Parties are bound by opposition. You've got a lot of nerve.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0430par0768	No, it's not connected.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0431par0769	I also forbid them to use a sexist language.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0429par0770	Parties are bound by opposition arguments, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0431par0771	It's not connected.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0432par0772	It's not connected. There's a party spokesman.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0433par0773	Why are you giving it to me, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0434par0774	Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0435par0775	We have two members, one of them has a signature.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0436par0776	It doesn't say the name of the party, it says the name of the person.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0434par0777	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0437par0780	Dear friends...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0438par0781	If you don't agree with the opposition, that's another problem, I don't know.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0439par0782	We're not connected, sir.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0440par0783	Mr. Sarıhan, I've turned on your microphone, you talk, you come in. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0441par0785	Dear friends...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0442par0786	Aren't you, Republican People's Party, committed to the vote you gave?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0443par0787	We're connected. You know, like... Let's go to war! Come on, Barzani built the tent state, come on! I'm telling AK PARTY, come on! Is that a waste of time?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0444par0788	Let me tell you something: if you're going to promise me this, let's go out and talk.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0445par0789	I turned on the microphone to Mr. Sarıhan. Come in, Mr. Sarihan. Speak, please.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0446par0791	I promise because everyone's talking...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0445par0792	You guys talk about the microphone. The others are talking without microphones. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0446par0794	Dear friends, principles are made up of facts. What is the truth? The truth isn't a result we all seek together, it's the truth, it's the middle. Now, over there, the number of rows that have been placed in Parliament records is 487, page 62, and there is a very detailed source of opposition. This is a text adopted in both the subcommittee and then the upper commission. If there was an explanation by the congressman who talked to us yesterday, maybe we wouldn't feel the need to bring it up, but such an attitude is that an opposition party would reject such an attitude after its initial assessments...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0445par0797	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0447par0798	We're gonna learn from you? It's a shame!
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0448par0799	Mr. President, look, here on page 40, the number of MPs is written, and there's no word on which party they're from.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0449par0800	Well, that's how we'll deal with it from now on. I mean, it's unbelievable.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0448par0801	The MP needs to know that, and it's a completely wrong idea to express that the MP's will and the political party's will are parallel.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit03spe0450par0802	I'm taking a thirty-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0450par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 10th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 497. The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0451par0004	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0450par0005	Mr. Erdogan, according to 60, I promise you for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0451par0008	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to underline a few things for the record. The bill that we are discussing is not just the 6th article, it has 39 articles in it. I'm the congressman who participated in both the subcommittee work and the commission work of this bill and contributed the most. This is in the reports, in the subcommittee and in the normal Commission. As for the 6th Amendment, if our friends reread it in opposition, they'll see that... since there's no change in the Civil Law, it doesn't matter who committed the wedding, it's important that the wedding be recorded. With the current sentence in this 6th article, it is clear that a number of up to 100,000 people will have the power to marry. My request for a limitation is in the Commission, mainly because it will make this recording difficult. In the spirit of opposition...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0452par0012	Thank you. Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0451par0014	All the written and verbal statements we've made, the statements in the Commission's transcripts are clear. The nationalist Movement Party's position on this issue is clear and clear. No one has to do politics on me. Many of the other challenges in this bill have been learned from us by friends who make polemics out of us. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0452par0016	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0453par0017	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0452par0018	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0453par0019	Let me tell you this: We are a group of people who respect the positive contribution Mr. Erdogan has made to many commissions. It's true that we're taking advantage of your ideas here. On top of what he said about the 6th article, however, a motion was issued to remove his signature from the text of the law, which was rejected by the ruling party. The 6th article contains a motion to be removed from the entire text of the law by its own signature, perhaps because there are no corrections that it desires.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0452par0020	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0454par0021	It doesn't need to go to the reports, it's already written in opposition.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0452par0022	There is, it's already in opposition. We stayed in the motion process on the third article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and offer to remove the declaration from the text of matter, which is held only in the third article of the Law Bill 497. Ziya Pir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Hüda Kaya Müslüm Doğan Mehmet Ali Aslan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0455par0035	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0452par0036	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0456par0037	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0452par0038	İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan has asked for a statement on the proposal. Mr. Dogan, come in.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0457par0041	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers have come up with some very important views on Bill 497. First, the violation of the Constitution was revealed. If this mufti issue passes, all such issues as Lausanne's disputes have been discussed, such as the non-Muslims' demands for new rights due to the rights in Lausanne. However, I'd like to make this perfectly clear. Why are you giving it to the mufti? Why don't you give it to the registrars, why not the deed officers? Look, friends, the object point is this: Mufti, the fetishist, representatives of Muslim religion, officials. These are the officers of the Ministry of Religious Affairs. That's why he's getting a big reaction. Now, there's a new system set up, you've built a new system. I call this new system political Islam. You're building the institutions of political Islam. But how do you build it? You want to rebuild the Sharia law, which even Master Ebussuud rejected. Is it really a necessity in today's conditions, or is it not, that you want to establish a law against civil law? There's a mind-blowing situation here, a mental eclipse. Now, in order to avoid my misunderstanding while I'm doing my illustration here, I'm really going to be uncomfortable with what I'm talking about, myself. For one thing, Alevi, Sunni, Kurd, Turk, I'm really uncomfortable with that. I look at all the people in this country in a way, especially as a person of Alevi faith and teaching. Racists, beliefs may be different, but we're human after all. Now, the children of the Alevi family don't go to the mufti, friends, so let me be clear, they certainly don't go to the mufti and get married. What does he do? Grandpa only prays according to Alevi. In civil law, they go and do whatever it takes to get married, but if they do, they end up in a prayer, which is consensual in the eyes of grandfathers, converts, prims, and guides. Now, I really don't think you mean anything by it. Now, look, the National Assembly makes the law, the majority doesn't. The majority party AK PARTY is not supposed to make a claim that I am going to pass these laws. The authority to make laws is by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and its members. Why can't we compromise here? As an example: Job's name was made in the 37th article, which will now come to the agenda. I think it's perfectly right. But I made a suggestion to the members of the group, and I said, "Let's change the name of this district to Hadji Bektas Velitaş, a very important faith center in the Alevi Bektashi world, which is the sparrow of the Alevi Bektashi world. If you are sincere about this matter, let's change its name to Hadji Bektas Veli. Right, guys? Is that a negative? So I'm going to say that when the 37th article comes. Now, friends, giving a mufti a mission is not actually violated by the secular principle, and I don't think like any other party, but it's about whether secularism is perceived correctly. If libertarian secularism, the principle of secularism in real Western countries, had been applied in this country, we wouldn't have had these problems anyway, the beliefs would have been free, the beliefs would have met their needs within their own democratic structure, perhaps they would have been the solution to social problems. But there's a monotheistic understanding that there's a sovereignty of faith here. The founding will of the Republic established the Head of the Religious Affairs, and in 1924, as he passed this law, he saw sheikhism as a means of power and established the Chief of Religious Affairs to keep his power intact. Now, this leadership, today's presidency, unfortunately, has served a belief, has fought only for the development of one faith, and you want to conclude a marriage contract with an officer in charge of that faith. Well, of course we're against it, fellas. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As absurd as it is for a deed manager to be assigned to this, I consider it absurd that the mufti should be assigned. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0458par0052	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We simply propose and propose that the declaration of the 497 rows of the Bill of Law be removed from the draft text. Baki Simsek Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Mustafa Mit Zühal Topcu Open Mind Mehmet Erdogan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0459par0064	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0458par0065	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0460par0066	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0458par0067	Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Parsak wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Parsak.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0461par0070	I have received a pledge from the People's National Movement Party on amendments to Article 3 of the Law Bill 497. On this occasion, I salute you all. Before we speak of our proposal, I ask the grace of God to all who have been martyred by the separatist terrorist organization in Hakkari. Gene, I call upon our brothers and citizens of the police who were injured in the traitorous attack of the separatist terrorist organization in Mersin. Respected MPs, today is the day of the independence of the Republic of Azerbaijan, a nation of our own, the life we call two states. I hereby congratulate you on the General Assembly of the High Assembly. Likewise, because I don't have a say in law enforcement tomorrow and because I care, tomorrow is Mukhtar's Day. I consider our mayors to be the most important capillaries of our state, and I celebrate their glorious days as well. In accordance with the Law Bill 497, it has been determined that documents relating to custody and custody will also be included in the family logs; however, the last sentence of the same joke will be changed and the documents related to custody and custody will be kept only in electronic context. In our view, the aim of the right arrangement should be considered to provide efficiency and efficiency in public administration. As a matter of fact, our party, the Nationalist Movement Party, published on 8 November 2009, has stated these issues in our party's programme "Truth to the Future," and in our 2011 election declaration, and has made it clear that under the title of the public administration, under the principles of democratic law state, the establishment, efficiency, and the establishment of a governing structure and the functioning of a new development, is the main objective of the public administration, which is to establish a flexible and effective method of service based on needs and quality service. In addition, in our 2015 election declaration, a public administration will be established that the public trusts and trusts its people. It has been said that e-turning is important in this regard. The righting and constructive politics of the nationalist Action Party's policies for innovation and development can once again be understood with the implementation of the business law. As a matter of fact, in his speech at the group meeting this week, October 17, 2017, he stated that only the critical and constructive policy of the National Movement Party was sincere in believing that it was morally and politically harmful to doodling, to put a stone on a stone, and, if necessary, to extend our hand under the stone, was one of the policy principles that made us who we are, the rights and the constructiveness of our policies once again. In this scope, we have assessed that this arrangement, which allows a person's custody and custody decisions to be stored in the electronic environment and included in log knowledge, is also an arrangement for the future work of population and citizenship services to increase efficiency in the public, but in that framework, we have submitted this amendment proposal, assuming that our amendment motion will come to a better point than the current one. So after we've completed our remarks on our motion, I'd like to make a call, an invitation, in the meantime. Honourable MPs, I have been president of our Afyonkarahisar and Districts Solidarity Association for six years before this. The foundations and associations of our eight Aegean provinces operating in Ankara have had a beautiful union under the name Egem Platform. It has been in operation for 12 years. And for ten years, we've been carrying all the beauty of the Aegean to Ankara, the capital of our republic. Today, we have inaugurated our Aegean provinces launch days with all our Aegean MPs, bureaucrats, businessmen, intellectuals. And I salute you once again by inviting all of our MPs to go on and on and on until Sunday and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0462par0080	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 4 that I have to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the last sentence of Article 4 (5490) and Article 8 (the last sentence of Article 8) of Law 8 (the last sentence of the 497-line bill that is being discussed is not part of this sentence. Nihat Green Hayati Tekin Murat Minister Gürsel Erol Kemal Zeybek Burcu Koksal Does the Commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0463par0091	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0462par0092	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0464par0093	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0462par0094	Afyonkarahisar MP Burcu Koksal wants to speak on the motion. Mr. Rootsal, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We're leaving Afyonkarahisar...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0465par0098	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, with all the problems in our country, we're here discussing the right to marry the mufti, as if they were lining up for marriage. There are 50,292 muhtars in Turkey, 1,397 municipalities, 14,000 workers in the city, and that's not enough, but the problem will be solved when 957 mufti give it to them? I will get married, but I have not found anyone to marry me. I have not met anyone to complain about it. Therefore, this authority is not required because of the need. The solution to the problem, even if it is needed, is obvious, and you increase the number of marriage officials. So, why are you giving the mufti this authority? The goal, especially in Anatolia, is to create social pressure in the country to promote the mufti wedding and make it possible to replace the city wedding, so it's actually a project. In time, the society will be divided into two groups of those who have married the MP and those who have married the governor, and the theme of how religious those who have performed the wedding of the mufti will be made, but that those who have performed the city's wedding will be subject to the lack of religion. The principle of secularism and equality of the Constitution will be annulled, and in time, multi-lawyness will emerge. It will be shaped according to the law, and the practice of different laws based on differences of faith will undermine our national integrity. Because one of the conditions of being a nation is the unity of judgment and law, my friends. You're trying to break up this union now. You declare that the People's Party of the Republic is uncomfortable with Islam and the religious officials. People's Party of non-religious Republics for years, don't vote for them. If these come to power, you silence the oppressor, turn the mosque into a barn, close the imam oratories. You cast mud at the Republican People's Party. Take your hands off the Republican People's Party's beliefs. Look, back home, there's a saying that you don't know who's got the money and who's got the faith. Who are you to question the beliefs of the Republican People's Party? Look at yourself in the mirror. You say, "Muslim." You try to feed people the meat that has been cut in Serbia without food. (Cheers and applause) You're a Muslim. You say, "Give the job to the man who has the job." You give the work to the upright and the comrade, contrary to the religion of Islam. You say, "Muslim." You are becoming the most extravagant in this country, not according to our religion. You say, "Muslim." You say, "It's not ours to eat when the neighbor is hungry." He says, "Islamic religion is our religion, but in your power thousands of people are starving in this country." Take your hands off the Republican People's Party's beliefs. Look, I'll give you an example: No Republican People's Party would wear the watch they don't deserve. No Republican People's Party would hide money in a bedroom that they have earned or didn't deserve. And no Republican People's Party will ever reset the money that's entitled to an orphan.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0466par0104	It's obvious what you've been up to since 1940. You've closed mosques, you've burned libraries, you've destroyed religion, which one should we count.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0465par0105	Stop disseminating society. Stop abusing religion. We will never give you the rights and gains that the Civil Law has given us, nor will we ever give up the republic. Your power will never be able to take away the rights given to us, especially to women. With all due respect.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0467par0108	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of the Ministry of Ministers shall be changed as the Council of Ministers, which is part of Article 4/5 of the Law Bill 497. See Lightning Zühal Ballerist Desire Virtue Open Your Mind Mehmet Erdoğan Mustafa Mit Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0468par0119	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0467par0120	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0469par0121	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0467par0122	İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem has asked for a statement on the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0470par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Nationalist Action Party Group on Article 4 of the Law to Change Some Laws. I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, first of all, I ask God's mercy to all our fellow miners who lost their lives in the coal mine in Şırnak yesterday, and ask patience for their grieving families. My condolences to the great Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, the blackness of coal, the blackness of life, the wound of society remains. In this respect, we need to make a very good assessment of this and make sure that the proper controls are made, especially for our miners, and that's what it's shown us again. Again, I pray to God for immediate healing for our braves who were wounded in the treacherous attack on our police yesterday at Mersin. May God protect our country and our nation from these traitors. Get well soon to our beloved Turkish nation. It is stated that the bill is aimed at further conduct of business and procedures related to population services, increasing speed and quality in the service presentation, ensuring our nation's satisfaction and abbreviating bureaucratic processes. Given the developments and the needs of today's technology and the needs of the age, we have supported and continued to support every arrangement that has been made for the benefit of our nation as the National Movement Party. First, our country and our nation, then my party. We have acted on it, and then we will continue to move on. As our leader, Mr. State Gardener, also brought up in the group meeting after the Constitutional vote, we put aside political infertile disputes, came together to resolve the problems of our country and our nation, under the roof of parliament, and we act with the awareness that we need to fight for the solution to delayed social problems. Tomorrow is the day of our chiefs. Our Mukhtars, I remember from my childhood, were the treasures of our neighborhood, of our district, of our area, like our elementary school teacher, because when there was a fight in a house, the Mukhtar would solve it, when he was poor somewhere, he'd tell the rich, he'd tell the rich, he'd solve the problem there. But even though there have been some improvements about our chiefs, I'd like to put it here in light of the information we've received from them that there's not enough improvements being made. Our Mukhtars have not had enough of their rights. Other than that, the places they're doing their duty now are small buildings, and you can see that some of them are working on executions, and they can't pay their rent because they don't have any income. In this regard, since they're doing the government's job, I'd like to stress here that there must be an urgent solution. Finally, I'd like to pass on the request from our veterans and fellow martyrs. Among our veterans, combat veterans, Korean veterans, Cypriot veterans, we see inequality among them when each of them comes to us. I hope these inequalities are in order with the following laws. I believe we will act with the knowledge that each of our gases is a sacred relic to us. In this sense, I would especially like to point out that the ruling party has to put them in the middle and put the differences in the middle and take the necessary steps to resolve these differences. And at the point of injustice to the relatives of the martyrs, you will surely be receiving appeals. In particular, I know that the employment problem for the relatives of our fallen martyrs in the defense of our holy homeland has not yet been resolved. I believe that the necessary initiatives will be carried out again with the ruling party, and the opposition parties will also be sensitive. As the National Movement Party, as I said, we have the responsibility to solve each of the delayed social problems together. These seats are a plague to each and every one of us that our nation has left us with. And it is necessary to carry them in the right direction, to bring them to the right conclusion, to be properly remembered when we leave these seats. I salute you all again. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0471par0139	Thank you. I submit to you the motion of Desire Erdem and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and offer the addition of the Ministry of Internal Affairs declaration instead of the 4th Article of the Law Bill 497 that is being discussed. Ziya Pir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Hüda Kaya Mahmoud Celadet Güdalı Erol Dora Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0472par0149	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0471par0150	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0473par0151	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0471par0152	Mardin MP Erol Dora has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0474par0155	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the Fourth Amendment to the Law on Population Services and Some Laws. I salute the General Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, I would like to point out that we, as you know of our Civil Law, have taken over from Switzerland. According to Turkish Civil Code Article 134, the marriage officer is the mayor of the municipality or the head of the municipality in which he will be tasked. In terms of ease in implementing the Census Services Act, the Ministry of Interior has also appointed a marriage officer to the population managers and foreign diplomatic missions, as stated in Article 22. How the marriage officers who have the authority to marry will be married, or the way of the marriage, is bound to Article 135 of the Turkish Civil Code and its different provisions. Therefore, the application and ceremony of marriage in Turkey will be carried out in the form of an official wedding, as determined in Civil Law. The official marriage, adopted in the Civil Law, is the only form of marriage that applies to everyone without a citizen-foreigner distinction for all marriage proceedings in Turkey. So no matter what religion, religion, ethnicity, everyone is subject to the same rule of law. Thus, the existence of the law system, which can be applied for all, without privilege, without law, according to religion, sects, and the congregation, is also a guarantee of justice and democracy. The most important achievement of the Republic of Turkey is its implementation of the same law, regardless of religion among its citizens. The system is fundamentally shaken by the authorization of the mufti to be married. This office, which has been authorized to be a marriage officer, covers mufti, who, unlike other officials of the state, is described as a minister of Muslim religious affairs. So in our understanding, no religion can be referred to in a universal, democratic, liberal, secular system. And in a country like Turkey, in a country with very different religions, ethnities, it is stressed that the Republic of Turkey is a secular, democratic, social state, as stated in Article 2 of our Constitution. In addition, the 10th article of our Constitution emphasizes that all citizens are equal before the law. Apart from Muslims in Turkey, we also have Alevis, Jews, Christians, Ezidi brothers, as you know. Therefore, the appointment of an officer of one of these religions with a reference will create a polarization of both secularism and the exclusion of our citizens themselves. In this regard, we find this arrangement contrary to the pluralist structure of our country and the relevant Constitutional clause and the international contracts that we have signed. Dear lawmakers, see, the current Constitution is a provision that we constantly criticize and make sure will be changed because it restricts basic rights and freedoms in many ways. However, we also care that there are some principles in the context of universal law in the minimum measure. The principles of secularism and democracy are the most important in the context of these attributes of the Constitution, as well as the regulation that international contracts that have been met in Article 90 shall be kept above internal law. On the international plane, I'm not going to repeat it again because we've spoken in many conversations about the importance of pluralism of freedom of faith, the extent to which the universal rights of individual and group are guaranteed. Mr. President, I would like to point out that we believe that Turkey should once again turn its face -- according to me -- into the European Union and the Copenhagen Criteria. Not that we're very interested in the European Union, but the universal values that are important to us are democracy, the rule of law, minority rights and human rights. As noted in the Constitution clause in our country -- as you know -- it is secular -- we feel that such regulations are not necessary. The Civil Law -- as it is clear from its name -- has arranged a civilized marriage contract, which includes all our citizens. From that point of view, again...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0475par0161	Finish your sentence if you want.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0474par0162	We see this arrangement in our Civil Law, in the context of universal principles, in the context of equality between men and women, and especially in the context of the protection of women's rights, in the context of children's rights. Of course, there are major setbacks in its application, which should be addressed in Turkey, first of all, in the heart of equality between men and women, but not in words. So we don't think such arrangement is necessary. With these feelings, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0475par0165	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 5 that I will read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 5 of the Law Bill 497 be removed from the draft text. Huda Kaya Dilek Öcalan Mehmet Ali Aslan Ziya Pir Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0476par0176	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0475par0177	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0477par0178	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0475par0179	Şanlıurfa MP Dilek Ocalan who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Wish Ocalan.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0478par0182	Mr. President, in the amendment to the Population Services Act with this clause, there is a declaration of birth of children born outside the pursuit of health care personnel by verbal declaration to the population managers. In fact, it is in the current law, but each new legal arrangement should be better and more systematic and more common in the present day. In this particular context, the conditions of the proposed birth statement are defined, and "by order of the manager of the property for the sake of confirmation of the child, the family physicians will conduct research through it. The expression is included and is envisioned to be subject to some kind of audit. However, there is no need to investigate the property, as long as the supervisor does not order it, and no criminal sanctions are being carried out if there is no investigation. Dear lawmakers, of course, it is very important that children be registered in the population. In particular, in the event of war and migration, the birth may not always occur in the pursuit of medical personnel. I mean, it may not be possible for the oral statement to be removed entirely, but the fact is that child abuse often arises when they go to a health centre during pregnancy through child forced marriage. Thus, verbal testimony can become a method of covering up sexual abuse. Childhood marriage is a form of sexual abuse, and there should be no discrepancy in law and practice in order to cover it up. A study must be conducted at every stage in the population register with a verbal statement, when the property is not under the order of the manager, should never be considered an exception, and should be subject to the sanction that the investigation should not be carefully done. We're thinking that this oral notification will increase marriages at a child's age because there are no constraints to the control clause. With this arrangement that women who have given birth at home can also be given identity to their children, when a 13 - year - old child gives birth at home, his child will be given identity freely, and there will be no investigation of early abuse or rape. In essence, this arrangement will pose great risks for those who are pregnant by incest, child marriage and rape. Dear lawmakers, as you all know, we've recently had important discussions about textbooks, including statements describing forced child-to-child marriages as a tradition. Clearly, this educational policy, which is the product of male dominant mentality, is a desire to build a social mentality. Of course, the construction of this mentality is not just in the field of education, but as a whole government policy. As we've seen today, with the mentality that applies to the law, if this clause passes, so will children's marriages. Concerns are heard by all communities. Of course, there are very good reasons for these concerns. In Turkey, 440,000 children under the age of 18 have given birth since 2002, when the AKP was in power. The number of children who have been sexually abused under the age of 15.937 is 15. Again, there is a point to remind you that laws that pave the way for marriages at an early age, laundering rape, have been tried to pass through parliament in the past years, again during AKP rule. Therefore, the requirement that child marriage is organised as a crime and that verbal statement be investigated as to whether or not children's sexual abuse is carried out in order to cover it up should not only be left under the command of the manager of the property, but with the law it should be protected. A child's marriage must be strictly prevented, openly organized as a crime. At this point, we would like to reiterate that this law serves no purpose in any way. Real issues must be returned to Turkey at once. No matter how many mistakes we say it's a profit, we salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0479par0187	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the final sentence of Article 15 of Article 15 of Article 5 of Law Bill 497 shall be removed from the draft text of the last sentence of the fourth joke and the last sentence of the 1st article. Baki Simsek Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Mustafa Mit Zühal Topcu Open Mind Mehmet Erdogan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0480par0196	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0479par0197	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0481par0198	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0479par0199	Anthalya MP Ahmet Selim Yurdakul who wants to speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0482par0202	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the National Movement Party on Article 5 of Law Bill 497. Reverend citizens, we've expressed in the Interior Commission the difficulties and the changes that this change will create and the changes that need to be made. Unfortunately, our objections were rejected by AKP members. Whereas we, the nationalist movement, are working for the interests of the Turkish nation with our views from all sides of the Turkish nation. We've said this many times before. We'll defend the rights of citizens who've had a hard time getting their voices to the government. As for the law, Article 5 of this law consists of 7 jokes. In fact, it would be appropriate to discuss this material in the Health Commission, which includes potential forensic elements and is largely concerned with the health community, but we do know the government's approach to the ruling party's Parliamentary group. Do you know what our country would have gained if this material had been discussed at the health care commission? The law would be free of error and more useful to our nation because of its discussion of the relevant commission. The opinion of members of the Parliament, who specialize in healthcare, was reflected in the law. The law would have been much more acceptable with the opinions of professionals, NGOs and citizens, if only this had been the way to go. Members of parliament, any participation in the law-making process allows the law to be up-to-date and long-lived. People win first by listening to opposition and citizens in an arrangement that affects our nation. We'll give you those calls every chance we get. We all want to move the Turkish nation forward. As for the matter, you didn't do it, but we did it, we got ideas from NGOs, we listened to relevant colleagues. As a medical member of the health community and a member of the faculty, I would like to express the wrong aspects of this clause. First, birth notifications must be arranged in a way that is not open to abuse due to the sociocultural properties of our country. Second, potential judicial processes should not be ignored in the arrangement. Third, the result of the births and the forensic results of various crimes should have been included in this arrangement in detail. Fourth, additional arrangements were to be made, considering reactions to the control and inspection of authority to private hospitals. Fifth, the birth notification of children born outside the pursuit of health care personnel in Article (4) is made verbally to the population managers. For the purposes of confirmation of the statement, research is being conducted through the order of the manager of the property and family physicians. Congressmans, I really don't understand your approach to assign new duties to family physicians at every turn you can think of. These friends have taken up these duties to serve our country as the primary element of protective medicine. We've been a party to support the idea of protective medicine from the beginning. So you put this program in good faith. Our party's health policy is based solely on protective medicine. But today you're undercutting this precious program. Putting family physicians in charge of extracurricular births is the wrong approach from top to bottom. You're already targeting the family physicians at the threat of violence. You're about to disrupt the family medicine institution that has been forced to perform its primary tasks. Please heed our warnings. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0483par0215	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I'm reading the final motion on matter: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the last sentence of Article 15 of Law 5490, which is envisioned to be replaced by Article 5 (P.S.) Article 497, which is currently in session, should be removed from the text. Gürsel Erol Kemal Zeybek Burcu Koksal Didem Engin Murat Minister Hayati Tekin Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0484par0226	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0483par0227	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0485par0228	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0483par0229	İstanbul MP Didem Engin will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0486par0232	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, in 1926 years ago Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who was a visionary leader, based on the equality of women and men in our country, prepared the Civil Law, and carried out arrangements for our women to have equal rights to men in every area of life. The year 2017, a university president of the Republic of Turkey gives a fatwa from his social media account: "A woman's hand is forbidden when it is not necessary to touch a foreign man's hand. Holding a foreign woman's hand to shake hands is scarier than holding fire. Our universities, too, should be free of prejudices and dogmas, free of ideas, wisdom, conscience, free of mind, multi-directional, researching creative individuals and generations, and should pioneer our technological development. Sadly, there was no serious response from the government to a chancellor's decree. Isn't it an example of how we came to be in the 21st century? There's another so-called theologian who says it's a sin for women to wear pants and go to college. Because they wear shorts, our women are attacked on buses, in parks, the attackers are not even taken into custody, and the Prime Minister says you can hum those who do. There's 2017 Turkey, there's AKP Turkey. We have 143,000 girls who didn't attend school in 2015-2016. According to official figures, the number of girls who were forced into marriage from 2002 to today is 643. With the situation so dire, the AKP ruling our country by itself lifted a formal marriage requirement to perform an imam wedding in 2015. Today, under the Civil Law, which is based on the equality of men and women, is given the authority to marry the mufti. The Minister of Family and Social Policy has not been heard because he does not consider himself a minister representing women in Turkey. Unfortunately, he only does what he has to do when he's given instructions from the top. NGOs who have been working on women's rights for days have voiced concern, and are trying to draw attention to the danger of this bill, the future of our daughters, the early marriages, the traumas of our family and social structure, but in vain, no one listens to the government, because the AKP is seeking to increase its vote in the upcoming elections, not in religion. This law will be passed whether you want it or not. Here's AKP's idea of advanced democracy. Rather than listening to those who have different opinions or concerns, we have to label them unresolved, enforce them, pass laws from Parliament, destroy the reputation of his party's representatives, and then seek votes in the squares by deceiving our people with their strong parliamentary causality. (Applause from the ranks of CHP) How can it benefit our society to separate from already separated, polarized society and to separate it from the provisions that will be integrated, as well as to separate it from the institution of marriage, the mufti marriage and the separation of the municipality marriage? Our most important duty, the politicians, is to be honest and kind to our people. We must not pass a law against our women and our young girls in this House. Whether you want to or not, this law will pass through the House. If you vote for it, the plague of all the women who will be harmed by it will be on you. You know the story. IV. Bekri Mustafa, who was said to have lived during the Murat period, was left to perform the funeral prayer by those who seek to pray at a funeral when he has a turban. Bekri leaned into the ear of the person who lost his life and asked for the state of this world. You say, "They understand this world." If Bekri lived in today's Turkey, it is likely that when he leaned on the person who lost his life, he made sophisticated professors as presidents of universities that should have been a science centre, and now that their weddings are becoming mufti. You say, they understand the state AKP is trying to transform Turkey. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0487par0242	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on Article 6 of the same nature. I'll have them read the motions and process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the 6th article of the Law Bill 497 is removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Saadet Muslüm Doğan Erol Dora Erdal Atash Ayşe Acar Başaran The signatures of the other motion are: Gürsel Erol Nihat Green Hayati Tekin Murat Minister Kemal Zeybek Burcu Koksal Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0488par0261	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0487par0262	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0489par0263	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0487par0264	Batman MP Saadet Capable, demanding a word on the first motion of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Skilly.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0490par0267	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, despite objections to some of the provisions of some new legislation, will pass through parliament whether you like it or not. The statement by the AKP's president, which states that the government, at times, makes a mockery of society, is almost the same as the government's statements. What were the statements made by government officials? There's a very advanced democracy in Turkey, and I think they're predicting that it's actually part of that very advanced democracy that's being imposed today. Of course, this amendment requires the insistence of the right to marry the mufti in particular: Why these compulsions? What's so urgent? As they say, it's not possible to believe that there's a social demand, or that there's no obstruction in the marriage proceedings, because we've never seen anything like it, we've never heard a demand anywhere. If so, why were not the population managers in each district and district elected or selected for a different official institution, especially the mufti? Of course, it's possible to say that there's a very different purpose here, there's a different purpose, there's questions in people's heads. We're warning the community that this arrangement can reach the point of dissolution of the religious-religious community, which is that in recent years, it will have to be increasingly polarized, deepened by social dissolution, that it will again create a dangerous dissolution in society, without our people being affected by the different beliefs that have been held so far. Members of parliament, adding a new one to the huge problems in Turkey, which are waiting for a solution, which has become a lump of problems because there is no solution, is, in fact, a skill that only this power can do. But if there was an effort to prevent the killings of women who were growing every day, that this marriage would be imposed on so much energy and time, for some, for mothers, for others, for sisters, for sisters, for sisters, aunts, for aunts, for still, for nieces, maybe all these women would not have been murdered today, perhaps all these women would be alive today. If a solution had been created, if the effort had been put into place, perhaps he would have been alive today at Helin Palandöken to prevent women's murders. If something shows the need to change, and the state mechanism predicts that it does not meet the conditions of the day, it can also be something different in law enforcement or in any other area, first of all, the demands of society must be taken into account, change in the context of the day, priority, and universal values. Because social fractures are very difficult to repair, you need to know that. I'd like to give a fresh example to the society you've separated. Yesterday at the Capitol gate, a group of women might have had some words to say, some objections to things. They wanted to come in, they weren't taken in, they were beaten, they were gassed, they were taken into custody. Isn't this the People's Assembly? Why do you bring this dissolution into the House, into the House? Why are you so afraid of some people when so many people walk right in? Because these women had words to say, objections to many things. There are contracts under which the state of Turkey has signed, which make Turkey a liability. Turkey is responsible for fulfilling that obligation, and it is, in fact, mandatory. I'd like to give you a few examples: the Universal Declaration of the United Nations, the European Convention on Human Rights, the CEDAW Convention Again, which prevents any discrimination against women, again the Istanbul Protocol. He's signed off on the state for these to be implemented in internal law. I would like to point out that these women's rights, born here, will, of course, object to the implementation of their civil rights, they will fight, and they will not sacrifice their rights to any law against them or against them, against the people. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0491par0276	Ankara MP Senal Sarıhan has asked for a statement on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0492par0279	I'd like to pick up where we left off. Not without an argument, but I'll get back to that, too. Now, I have the data from 2016. 594,493 marriages, 126,164 divorces. The marriage increased by 1.41 years last year, while the divorce increased by 4.30 per cent. The percentage of both official weddings and religious weddings is 97.11 per cent; only religious weddings are 1.8 per cent. Now, when we looked here, we were asked if there were lines of marriage or if there were not enough institutions. That's what these numbers show. Now, what are we worried about? Is this anxiety a religious concern? Is there an argument about religion? No, there's been another discussion. I'm going to talk about some data on that, too. We are number 2 in Europe in the list of girls married as children in Turkey. We see that the number of girls who have been married in the last year alone has increased by 94.2% to over 181,000. Another number, child abuse cases have increased by 700 per cent in the last decade, and we stress that they have exceeded 300,000. We also point out that 285 children were sexually abused in nine months between January 2017 and September 2017. Our concern is children's marriages, our anxiety is the principle of secularism -- I have drawn gold -- our anxiety will arise from shortcomings, our concern will be to remove the security of the marriage union, our concern will now arise from imams or from imams or from those who will be assigned to them. But a few of our friends -- I'm very sorry to hear -- said that those who reacted against this matter were either not married or divorced in a year or two, or they're free to hang out, or they're in a modern relationship -- whatever that means.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0493par0282	Unmarried... you know what he means.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0492par0283	Dear friends, I was married in 1974, married for forty-three years, and I oppose this bill, and my feet are on the ground. If marriage, which you call a common-law marriage, is within the rules of the Civil Code, then, like many of you, I have set up this marriage. The majority of the women you didn't let in were those who weren't married or married, but were concerned about their future and Turkey's girls. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, I return to our dear friend Mustafa Erdogan, who, with great respect, listened to him at the commissions during the debate. What he said is true, yes, I've learned a lot from him, and now I'd like to share with you what I've learned. What have I learned? For example, I learned from his talk on 3/10/2017 that the Mufti could give it to the imams in the entire village if it was not given to the Court personally. That's how I see it, if our fellow lawyers understand something different or if our Ministry has a different purpose, it needs to be explained. Now, what do the minorities say to the church, the synagogue, if they want these powers? Yeah, I thought about it, what we'd say to them. I'm going to go on: there's a lot of other problems on Turkey's agenda today, so it's not a question of open authority here by calling the αil and the county mufti. It's not a question of the integrity of the first law.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0494par0287	Minorities use their rights, priests have their own private weddings, they use them.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0492par0288	I don't think that's on Turkey's agenda. Moving on, guys. So let's stop this fuss by removing this added text from the bill, because there are very important provisions in the law, and because of Turkey's needs, it really needs to go into effect as soon as possible, because of the advances in technology. I demand that this unnecessary arrangement be removed from here. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Guys, I'm speaking as a representative of the Republican People's Party, and everything I say connects with the Republican People's Party. And my friends on a commission...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0495par0294	The Republican People's Party does not concern us, the Republican People's Party does.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0492par0295	Please, one moment, please.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0496par0296	Why are you half at the counter? Yes. Half of you gave it to me. Isn't that the Republican People's Party's decision?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0492par0297	It's a matter of women, so please, you're giving it to everyone.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0497par0298	I'm not giving it away, I'm not giving it to everyone, I'm just giving it to Mr. Dora. Finish your sentence. Finish your sentence, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0498par0300	Some of you said, "Yes." Some of you said, "No."
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0499par0301	I'd like that to be heard.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0497par0302	Okay, it'll be heard, finish in a minute.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0499par0303	Well, we're not forgetting your bilateral attitude, counselor friend. Friends, dear friends, now, if it's going to cause a dissolution in solving problems, if it's going to create multi-law again, if it's going to bring a rule that you left 90 years ago, and women are screaming as loud as their lungs are, and if a handful of women want something else, which I'm sure they don't want, I'm sure they don't, because the union is a collaboration.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0500par0305	What do you mean, a handful of women?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0501par0306	Don't insult, don't insult women.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0499par0307	You want to be rewarded for your labors with your children, with your property, and with your property.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0502par0308	A bunch of people think like you do, they're wrong.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0499par0309	If you can't do it, if we don't do it, we won't be able to get rid of our own children, the account we're owed.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0502par0310	No one's forcing you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0503par0311	The foundation of the family will be laid out in prayer, so that the divorce rate -- 4 percent -- will be reduced, I hope.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0499par0312	I invite you all to be responsible for your children, to be responsible for your mothers, to be responsible for your sisters, and to uphold republican law.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0504par0314	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0505par0315	Wait a second... I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0506par0319	Mr. President, the orator has twisted my words.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0505par0320	He said "Mustafa Erdogan" but did not say "Mehmet Erdogan."
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0507par0321	And by twisting your name...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0505par0322	Okay, here you go. I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease. Congressmans, once again, I will no longer extend the deadlines. Please...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0508par0328	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I want to thank you for your promise. First of all, I'd like to invite the clerk to know my name. I've been in Parliament for seven years, and if he reads the minutes on the Commission, I'm the most named MP. My name is Mehmet Erdogan. I'm a MP for the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0509par0330	I know you very well. I know you very well.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0508par0331	I stand by all of my words, and I have just said in my statement: I expressed my concerns in the Commission, but I did not say that it was contrary to the Constitution, that it was contrary to secularism. After all, as long as there is no change in the Civil Law, there is no details about who did the wedding, but I have stated that the wedding was a matter of registration above all, and that the number of people who will record it will make it difficult for control and education. If you read those transcripts again, you'll see. The words I say, of course, bind me, and the decision of my party still binds me, and I stand by the decision of my party. But do your words connect to a party, or do the words of the party bind you? For example, in the recent vote, Mr. Kilicdaroglu and his group said yes, but you said yes. Did you say yes, or did you say no? Come and explain this. With all due respect, I salute you all, thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0510par0335	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0511par0336	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0510par0337	Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0511par0338	Now I want a say in this, there's obviously bullying.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0510par0340	Here, I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not challenge a new taunt, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0511par0343	Friends, everyone is responsible for their actions and transactions, but if everyone represents a party, they are also responsible for implementing the party's rules in accordance with the party's decisions. We're talking about discussing a concrete bill, not a dissertation.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0512par0345	A promise is a promise.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0511par0346	I'd like to say once again that by twisting the subject, by taking it to a different place, trying to give an answer, it's getting away from the point of view.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0513par0347	Come to the counter!
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0511par0348	Here, in your hand, I've read you the transcripts, I've learned them, thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0513par0349	You're conflicting with the conversation you just had.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0511par0350	I didn't find out he was Mehmet, not Mustafa, that's a flaw. I haven't been in Parliament for seven years, I've been in Parliament for two years, and I've been in the Commission without a commissioner.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0513par0351	Is it your speech or the party's decision that binds you? Give me an answer for him here.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0511par0352	I wish the other members of your party had joined that Commission and expressed their views, if that contradiction hadn't been born...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0513par0353	You're conflicted and incoherent, incoherent!
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0511par0354	...or a way we could convince the AKP, all of us together, if there was a method.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0513par0355	Did you say "yes"? Did you say "no"?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0511par0356	Now, let's look at the present, let's look at the present, what's the current situation?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0514par0357	No, we saw his finger.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0511par0358	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0515par0360	Did you say no? Did you say yes?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0511par0361	None of your business.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0515par0362	It's none of your business.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0516par0366	There are two motions on the 7th article, which I will have read and process, and I will submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and demand that the declaration of the 497 rows of the Law be changed in the form of the 7th Article of the Charter. Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Ziya Pir Huda Kaya Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0517par0374	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0516par0375	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0518par0376	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0516par0377	Van MP Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0519par0380	Thank you, Mr. President. As I begin, I honor the thousands of heroines who have devoted their years to the struggle for women's freedom and lost their lives for it. We have already expressed our views on the 7th Amendment. The next bill is clearly imposed on society, in the sense of the bag of law. This bill is not what the public needs, as it is claimed, but what society expects. This bill is intended for women to be stripped of their rights as a result of decades of struggles in social life. Clearly, a woman must obey a man first. It is the design of those who think. We need to see the truth: Turkey is moving quickly away from being a democratic country. Because for a long time, Congress has been trying to be transformed into an institution that now approves one's instructions. Otherwise, he will pass through the House, whether you want to or not. There is no other way to understand or interpret his statement. The fact is, it's a reflection of the desire to shape society with a few articles, and it's been explicitly instructed. This sentence is proof that our democracy is bankrupt. And we're pretty sure that within the ruling party there are those who doubt this bill and those who don't like it, and we know that. However, this suspicion is no longer relevant to the fact that after this directive and by the majority vote, you have approved every item.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0520par0384	That's not instructions. Did you ask the Van people? The Van people and their women want this stuff.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0519par0385	Those who remain silent today should know that the violence of child brides, children's sexual abuse, and all violence against women will be on the neck of those who remain silent today. Lawmakers have voiced a wide range of concerns about the bill, objections have risen. The government and Parliament's main duty is not to ignore these objections. We need to be serious about the concerns of society. Our priority should be those who object, women who attract attention, and we, too, speak from this bench. We tell and warn from here, but we can see that there's a lot of pressure in this room, in this room, in this room, that this air is felt very clearly, whether we like it or not. On the other hand, we are exposed to the statements of the President of Adıyaman University in the press. It's worse to shake hands with a woman than to hold a fire. If this chancellor is still not relieved of office because of his words, the public must know that these words are approved and accepted by someone. In the event of this bill's legalisation, such bold words will take action and women will be excluded from social life. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are clearly hiding the simplest and true purpose of the bill through populist rhetoric. The changes presented as a bureaucratic process are required to return to the women's fight for equality. This step is the desire to destroy constitutional rights, particularly the principle of equality. For these reasons, we object to the subletting of the main problems with artificial agendas created. The problem with women is that they don't apply equal wages for equal work, that men who slaughter, rape, abuse, abuse, and abuse are walking among us, not being punished. There's no responsibility for these issues that turn out to be a huge problem area, but the arrangements that each section opposes are imposed on them. The problem with us is that sexist education policies are being implemented, because men are more advanced in power and strength than the Minister of National Education boasts about the new curriculum, the family's responsibility is given to them. Congressmans expect the women's muft to meet the minimum requirements of the Istanbul Convention, which the government boasts of being the first signator of the imam, but we do know that there have been no significant reductions in the violence of women and the reductions of the perpetrators after the Istanbul Convention took effect in 2014. Women expect the state to respond to the fact that 52 per cent of those who were raped in 2016 and 90 per cent of those who were abused were children. How is it that women, even though there are 120,000 victims of violence every year, want to be answered that there are only 30 electronic handcuffs in all of Turkey, but instead of solving them, you interfere with women's lives, polarizing society. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The last thing I know is that we're not willing to do this.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0521par0392	Let's ask the Van people, the Van people. Let's ask if they support you or the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0519par0393	...we want to inform you that these laws will not be passed like this. We pay our respects.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0522par0396	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the declaration of 497 rows in the 4th Amendment, which is included in the 4th article of Article No. 5490, under the 4th Amendment. Gürsel Erol Nihat Green Hayati Tekin Murat Minister Kemal Zeybek Burcu Koksal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0523par0405	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0522par0406	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0524par0407	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0522par0408	Samsun MP Hayati Tekin will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tekin.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0525par0411	Yes, Mr. President, members of the Council, I salute you with love and respect. On behalf of the CHP Group, I have received a pledge on the motion we made in Article 7 of the Law Bill 497. First of all, it took a year for these two laws to be passed during the difficult years of World War I, which lasted two days on commissions here. As a result of his work on the commission collected on May 22, 1916, Jewish rabbis and Christian clergy were present on this commission. At the same time, there is a marriage contract in the custody of a judge or an assistant judge, and for those who do not comply, imams or spiritual leaders are sentenced to one month to six months in prison. At the point where we arrived a hundred years later, the Ministry first denies itself. We can't do this with all these municipalities, 50,000 officers, 10,000 chiefs and population managers, we're incompetent, so let's give this mission to the district and county mufts of Dianet. I'm asking you from here, Mr. Secretary, can't the municipalities raise the wedding, is there some kind of problem, are there couples who want to get married in line? No. The goal is to make society religious, divide society, which is to separate society from those who have married the mufti, who have married the municipality. I'm asking: Is it possible that in a country where 99% are Muslims, the Mufti Muslim is also a marriage officer? Now your intentions are clear. As if you had done something at the time of the election, praise be to God, we also gave the mufti the right to marry. To vote by addressing the feelings of our pure, clean, religious people. But you have a grave sin that you have forgotten.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0526par0415	Our people don't want to...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0525par0416	Wait, wait. In 1926, adultery, which was considered a crime against Articles 440 and 441, in accordance with the laws issued by Ataturk (Ataturk) in Articles 440 and 441, has been dismissed as a crime of love for the European Union in 2004, and there have been a 700 per cent increase today in the prostitution established by statistics. With this law, it will happen to our young girls and our women again. Yes, sir, he's having a wedding at the church. Yes, we just told him about the Ottoman example. As it is known, the Christians have a clergy class. They take money, they build a state, they confess, they make goods. No one can come between God and His servant in our faith. The earth is a mosque. As you know, Israel is the 8th verse.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0527par0419	So we say there's going to be a test in the name of God.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0525par0420	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0527par0421	That's what we're saying, for God's sake.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0525par0422	The race of Christians with Islam is absurd. With questions about how the mufti, Alevi citizens, or other sects, or the hairless bride, will perform her wedding, there is another danger waiting for us. There are Catholic and Orthodox Christians living in our country at the moment. Naturally, they will ask for the right to marry in the church under the special law adopted in Ottoman times. Thus, the Lantern Rum Patriarchy will base the issue and raise its right to sow. On the one hand, we call Europe a habit, and on the other hand, we put a bullet in our foot by opening the door to Orthodox religion. We, the opposition, are expressing our concerns, but the government is doing this religious show on purpose. Apparently, the goal is not only to hunt for votes, but also to place the Vatican of Catholics, the Patriarchy of Orthodox people, so why should Islam's caliph not exist?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0527par0423	Parliament...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0525par0424	So, what's the bottom line? Mr. Erdogan said recently that we are two passengers going to the same range. Yes, one passenger was eliminated; the other passenger targeted the position of the Islamic centre in the BOP project. From that office, the global economy is either a nightingale or a hawk is the start of the Sunni-Sii war. Thus, the miracle of war is performed in the Middle East, where Evangelism awaits. Either way, Evangelism is proud of you. And you have no sin because you have neither the ability nor the ability to make decisions. I don't blame you for that either. Thank you all.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0528par0427	Vital president, tell me the truth, do you believe that?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0525par0428	You object, but you have no jurisdiction.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0529par0429	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on the 8th article, which I will have read and processed, and I will submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to records in the central database of the 497th Article of the Common Law Bill, which has not been processed for a long period of time, we provide and propose that the statement be placed in the central database and changed into a long-term non-processed database. Ziya Pir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Hüda Kaya Mehmet Ali Aslan Ertuğul Kürçılı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0530par0439	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0529par0440	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0531par0441	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0529par0442	Izmir MP Ertugrul Kürkçı who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0532par0445	Mr. President, dear friends, in fact, up until now, especially those who have fought for women's movement, women's freedom and equality, a great deal of fighting has unfortunately passed through this House with a few men's votes. I mean, maybe you can count the discussion as over, but believe me, you've opened the door to a much bigger discussion. Because it wasn't just a discussion about which civil servant was going to have a wedding, it was another discussion that led to a much larger discussion. In national education, teaching children the concept of jihad as a central concept, meaning that today, especially in the Middle East, you have introduced the most important concept used to justify the killings, massacres, destructions of millions of people against each other. Starting with the principle of equality between men and women, you re-cooked the old thesis that destroyed all over social life. You have honored the secondaryness of girls, and you have made them worthy of the people who offer fatwas, who claim that girls can be married even as children, even as infants. In all this atmosphere, Turkey has seen all its gains in a series of practices and attacks that have reversed postmodern conditions, as women have seen, of course, the issue of what kind of wedding to be recorded as a complementary issue, and they were absolutely right. Is this a matter for women only? Is it just a problem for women? Isn't that a matter for men, for the other half of society? If we think about it in a neat way, we can see together that all laws that crush women are actually the product of a mindset that crushes all citizens. Fascism, masculinity, male characteristics, he walks to power by raising his male identity, and when he puts women underfoot, he actually puts workers underfoot, he puts minorities underfoot, he puts different sexual orientations underfoot, and in the end, a large portion of men pay the price of fascism, except for an elite minority group of men. But when he turned to women, the pointy tip of the spear often fell asleep, just as the non-Jews slept when the spear turned to the Jews, just as the conservatives slept when the spear turned to the communists, just as most men slept when they turned to the homosexuals. So, it's not just a holistic debate, it's not just a wedding debate, but even in this dimension, it's because women are being taken away, especially the last parts of Turkey's half-part secularism, which women have won most of all. Therefore, accusing women of misunderstanding the issue, or to judge the issue in terms of femininity... in fact today, you won't understand what happens if you ignore the fact that the struggle for freedom of humanity is essentially raised in the hands of women, that our age's rising fighting force is in the hands of the workers. But let's all face it today, there's a global war going on and there's a civil war going on between men and women in Turkey. Those who do not side with women in this civil war, those who do not side with women, will eventually be eliminated, and will be very surprised to see how much time, how much life, how much freedom they have lost because they do not link their freedom, their right to equality in the future, their own survival, to the salvation of women. Therefore, we must and must take part in the women's company. We continue to oppose this law from now on, everywhere, in the street, in the house, in the factory.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0533par0454	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of 497 rows in question be changed in the form of the following, which is included in Article 33 of Law 5490, which is included in Article 33. Gürsel Erol Elif Doğan Türkmen Nihat Yeşil Burcu Koksal Murat Minister Hayati Tekin Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0534par0465	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0533par0466	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0535par0467	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0533par0468	Adana MP Elif Doğan Türkmen demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Turkmen.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0536par0471	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today is the anniversary of the day of the liberation of Saimbeyli, from the districts of Adana. Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is the town that lit the shepherd's fire in Adana, where he fought against imperialism all over Turkey. Therefore, greetings and greetings from the House to Saimbeyli.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0537par0473	Did you write a letter on your anniversary?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0536par0474	Dear MPs, I read the definition of "instruction" on the page of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, and it says: "This is the definition of a person who sheds light on Islam's religion, who regulates religious services or controls religious services, who conducts the work of the Hajj and Umre, who works on the presidential staff." In this definition, there is a definition that the mufti can perform their wedding ceremony, which unfortunately does not exist. But with this bill of law, the Justice and Development Party violates the principle of secularism, which is to re-enact religion from secular and state work a century ago. We're not surprised. There's a building that's just been taught to children in medical schools that's illegal for the mother to earn money. The reason for this structure to formally marry the mufti is to walk towards the Sharia state in this parliament today. Today is the day in parliament when secularism, the most important social principle of democracy, has been emptied into concept and practice. The Justice and Development Party seeks to transform all parts of society on the basis of its own political understanding. Therefore, he wants to create a public space without women, making legal arrangements for the removal of individual and social rights, collective rights as women, and while doing so, he has the task of transforming society by using the men's official mouth that takes religious reference through women. The point where this structure will bring Turkey, unfortunately, is the areas where women will lose in the field of civil rights, as it has in every area in the last 15 years. I'd like to address men who walk with dear women and women. Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, if only one of the species of a society can get what our century requires, that society will be half weakened. The failures of our society are caused by neglect and imperfection against our women. A hundred years ago, we came from a world leader who made this determination and made the laws of revolution in accordance with this situation, through women and women, to a country that drove the country into darkness. And I would like to say, every dark night has its morning, and we are the ones who deliver it. That is why women who have had those mornings in Turkey for days have resisted; they have resisted yesterday, we resist today, we will resist tomorrow. You may have broken this law, but this country claimed the values of the republic yesterday, today it's claimed, and tomorrow it will. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0538par0480	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 9 that I'm processing. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "the record of their children's children's father or mother's name" in Article 9 of the Law Bill 497, which is currently in session, be changed into "records of their children's father or mother's name." Ziya Pir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Hüda Kaya Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0539par0490	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0538par0491	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0540par0492	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0538par0493	İstanbul MP Hüda Kaya has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0541par0496	Thank you, Mayor. Dear Regents, I will now continue to share the missing portion of my previous speech with you in this article. When I received the pledge, a AKP group spokesman friend of ours stated: "It is not a religious wedding, it is necessary to marry a mufti after the wedding." (Now, we look at the prime minister, we look at him separately, we look at the president, he describes the president separately, he describes the group speakers separately, the next friends bring a separate comment, but...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0542par0498	Look at the text of the law, the text.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0541par0499	Sir?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0542par0500	It's what's written in the text of the law.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0541par0501	I'm targeting your comments.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0543par0502	Congressmans, please don't interfere.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0541par0503	Mr. President, you know what he said to those who were against this law: they wouldn't understand if I told them about the wedding. In fact, the President needs to tell the AKP group speakers in the first place what the wedding is so that it can be understood because I see confusion in you guys. The wedding is not a religious trait, nor is it a garment, nor is it a profession. The marriage has a social function, not a religious one. The reason why there are two witnesses is because they witness to the public that they share the lives of two people is because the laws of two people are formalized against each other, that their laws are guaranteed, that there's no other cost, there's no need for artificial sanctity. After two people have decided to live together by their own beliefs, language, color, culture, tradition, there are witnesses who need to be responsible to each other against social law, and the declaration of their union is equal to the public, friends. Besides that, there's no religious marriage, there's no wedding, there's no wedding, there's no wedding, there's no dress, there's no beard, there's no beard, there's no teacher, there's no teacher, there's no need to be a man. Last week when I was invited to a meeting with the Internal Affairs Commission, I expressed it there. Twenty-four hours earlier I was in Izmir, where I was in the Virgin Mary. I married two of our Muslim teenagers in the Virgin Mary, who had their official wedding the night before. We prayed in our own language, wished for good, and performed our marriage in our own way. You'll be a mufti for this, you'll be an imam, you'll be a teacher, there's no record of that in the hymnal texts, in the originals, not to mention the interpretations of such misguided, manipulative, esoteric, yazid, virus-infested religious sources. Our Deputy Ziya has advised you of the expertise, but I would never recommend them, they're the source of the virus. If you go back to the original, unspoiled texts in the divine texts, you'll find that all of this is already false relics and nonsense, my friends.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0544par0506	There's no summary of the Quran, so I called it knowledge.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0541par0507	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Yes, my dear friends, the general definition of morality -- the time is also ending -- is often expressed in a negative way through women. It's as if women run our country, and in our country, we're told by the general definition of morality based on the negative practice of women, as if economic, moral, religious, social, social, social decomposition had been caused by women. It is clear, however, that Turkey, society, society, religion, morality, conscience are decomposing -- unfortunately, the result of a man's mental state, a sovereign mind, agitative mentality -- has brought Turkey into this state. I'll continue again later. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0545par0512	I submit the motion to our votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 5490 of Law 36, which is held under the 9th Article of the Charter 497, which is in question, be replaced in the form of a name (also referred to in the article (1)). Gürsel Erol Nihat Green Burcu Koksal Gibraltar Özdemir Murat Minister Kemal Zeybek Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0546par0523	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0545par0524	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0547par0525	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0545par0526	İstanbul MP Gibraltar Özdemir has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0548par0529	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the 9th Amendment to the Law on Population Services and some Laws. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the bill on population services that we're talking about includes regulations on such important issues as marriage, birth, and death that concern our citizens. The archives, document management, registrations, safe transfer of the population logs to digital environments, the use of new technology systems, especially the security of personal data, are not opposed and supported by regulations concerning better, better quality services for our citizens. We supported 34 of the 39 articles of the bill, brought forth 4 of our opposition for a very important reason, but insisted that the 6th article be removed from the bill. Dear lawmakers, under the regulation of Article 9 of which I am currently discussing, the Constitutional Court's ruling dated 30/3/2012 that our citizens can only file one case against the change of name, and will be able to file more than one case after this. We support this change to make our citizens' lives easier, to improve the efficiency and efficiency of the service presentation. But instead of solving our country's priority problems and meeting our citizens' priority demands, without demand and need, without making a compromise and common sense, despite all the objections of the main opposition party and the two opposition parties in the commission phase, the 6th article of the bill, which gives the mufti to marry, was unfortunately brought to the agenda of the General Assembly. The opinion of NGOs, academics, municipalities, and even mufti, who are conducting studies on women's problems, has not been received. We have demonstrated our efforts to meet the priority issues and demands of our country and citizens -- the mutual compromise of power and opposition and a complete agreement -- both in commission and other subcommittee work. This request was made very clear not only by the main opposition party, but also by the two opposition parties in the Commission and the subcommittee work. We insisted that not all segments of society are considered sensitive. In the commission talks, in summary, we unfortunately did not see the basis for the bill, which Mr. Minister today said was the motive for facilitating official marriage accessibility. So the reasons for the regulation of this clause were not very clear and clear. We have indeed established here today that our citizens do not have a priority demand, that the clause is contrary to the Constitution, that the rights obtained by civil law and women will be taken from them, that the girls will be persecuted, that the area of responsibility, according to the Constitution, will undermine the principle of equality and equality between different religions and sects, that they will carry out the affairs of religion, that they will enlighten the people and that they will rule the places of worship, and that they cannot be granted the power to marry, which is more important. On many other issues, we've demanded that the matter be removed from the bill by exposing reservations -- opposition parties. The public debate is that this clause will be removed from the bill before it is brought to the General Assembly. This law will be passed whether you want it or not. The statement led to a major dissolution of society before this bill came to parliament. Here's what he told Mr. President about your officers. He doesn't listen young in Anatolia, but a teacher listens to a master's words. None of us accept separative and polarizing rhetoric. As a result, I would like to say once again that this 6th article, which is contrary to the Constitution, which is now not demand and needs in our society, should be removed from the bill, which will lead to dissolutions in society. I salute your high council again.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit04spe0549par0540	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0549par0001	I now open the Fifth Session of the 10th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 497. The commission and the government are in place. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0550par0005	Now, when I was speaking on the generality of the law, I said that one of the things that was risky, one of the things that was risky, was the substance that had to do with verbal reporting after birth. Now, at the moment, a better arrangement is claimed to be being made, and it is said that the birth certificate of children born outside the pursuit of health care personnel is made verbally to the population managers. In this second paragraph, however, there may be a discrepancy that does not fully express what was intended to be done, which is being used for the purpose of confirming the property by the head of the estate. So if the statement isn't approved, it's as if this is the property manager's...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0549par0007	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0550par0008	...at his pleasure and hence, he may not be able to do this research, not have family physicians study it. I'd like to make this very clear. Is it an obligation in this law to command this property? Is there a criminal sanction, if not done? Is it possible to clarify whether the birth child's mother is the real mother, or, for example, whether or not arrangements will be made to correct the concern of whether or not it will be recorded on another person? Because that is the only way this will serve the purpose of doing something better. Perhaps it would be wise for the public to be more specific in this sense, to be given a description of what the regulations are, and what they are intended to be, by your side. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0549par0010	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0551par0012	Thank you for such an opportunity, and I really needed to explain it. In the previous law or meri law, if the current law does not submit any documents, the oral statement shall be written on the basis of the notification, and the birth certificate shall be signed by those who have made the notification. There was a clause called, all of it. So the oral statement is based. However, we talked to our friends in the process of drafting this law that this was not enough, that it was more important that the births should be directed to the hospital, and that there needed to be a new set of arrangements here. When we were told, "What can we do?" and "How can we do it?" -- we have a family doctor system -- one, we thought, "Let's put the family physician system in the business." Two, we just thought we couldn't do this system with the family physician, and we wanted to finish it with the head of the estate right away. Our main goal here is not to leave the property to appreciation, but rather to force the property into the discretion of the manager, without giving it to the manager. Here, recording is fundamental. So eliminating off-the-books is based on recording. What we're thinking here is that it's partly because of my style. I mean, I'm the kind of guy who thinks laws and laws like this need to be a framework. So, we've come up with an assessment that we're going to do this in a stricter and more curved way with secondary regulations. It's not just a verbal statement. His oral statement is both with the property manager and the family physician from the other side... because the family physician is the one who has to watch the birth from the pregnancy. By tying him up here... So let's make sure everyone knows that this is in the regulation, which is in the secondary regulations... it doesn't say here that it's already done, or that it's given, or that it's ordered directly, and it doesn't give you the right to be appreciated. Perhaps it's the concept of confirmation that raises doubts here. In fact, the concept of veracity is a concept that is made to carry out the confirmation of this birth, but it can remove this doubt here -- not in our opinion -- but it can raise doubt -- is the secondary arrangement, in the secondary arrangement, we do it much more in a much more curved way, much more powerful way. Because it's not our wish to leave space; it's the opposite, to tighten and record and prevent any abuse from happening here.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0552par0016	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0553par0017	Is it possible for me to make an addition?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0552par0018	Here, make an addition.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0553par0019	Will it then be stated that every oral notification will be carried out and that there is an obligation?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0554par0020	Yeah, yeah, that's exactly what we do in regulations. So in any verbal notification of the regulation, this can be done by the head of the property, along with the family physician. In fact, it's essential for us to put an assessment of the use of law enforcement here. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0555par0022	Thank you, it's been cleared up. There are two motions on Article 10 that I will read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The article (1) of the article of the 10th article of the draft of 497 rows in question has been changed into the letter of proxy (g) and we propose that the declaration be removed from the text. Gürsel Erol Kemal Zeybek Burcu Koksal Murat Minister Hayati Tekin Nihat Yeşil Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0556par0033	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0555par0034	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0557par0035	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0555par0036	The person who wants to speak on the motion is Bursa MP Erkan Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0558par0039	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 10th amendment of Law 497. First, I'd like to express our prayers to Mr. Baykal, our former president, who was in the hospital, asking for immediate healing. Yes, power has thrown in front of us a new bill that will increase division in society and turn the country into an empire of fear. And they created such a regime of pressure against all social opposition that they couldn't even tolerate the protests of women who came to the front of the House yesterday, they tried to stop them from doing things like disproportionate force, violence, pepper spray. I'd like to ask myself what these innocent women would lose by coming in here and at least expressing themselves. It's obviously an application to surrender the community with fear and make themselves indispensable, but at the end of the day, it's certainly a strategy that will refute society, because communities who surrender to fear lose their reason, they fail to realize what's right and what's wrong, and eventually they rot. Now, the government is making foreign policy material and producing fear, as well as trying to intimidate all sectors by disregarding social sensibilities in domestic policy. And now they want to continue this fear by dividing the society into those who have already married and who have not done so. Then they'll go out and say, "Beka's in trouble in the country." They'll keep it going. So, is there a becca problem in the country? Of course there is, but its source is not just foreign forces, but AKP's wrong policies, like the wrong policies in Iraq, Syria, Libya. The countries that made the Middle East this way tried to create a fear empire in their country again. They were people who could limit freedoms, who could not establish social peace, who divided society to stay in power, who divided society, who lived in luxury, luxury in palaces while their people were struggling with poverty, who ruled their country with one man's regime, seeing as it was their father's property. They didn't care about education, economics, social integrity, the values of the country, and they didn't respect anyone else's mind, their approach. So, what was the result? We've all seen the result together, right now it's all over the place, and it's right next to the fire. It is the end of the country's ambition to create a constant enemy and the role of the AKP's chief of staff in an uninterrupted, controversial political sense of self-restraint of society. Yes, because of these mistakes, the reputation lost in the face of the world, and the bill for the punishment from there, will still be made to pay the innocent citizens of this country. No one has the power to divide nations from the outside, who have established social peace, who have established justice, who have maintained their values, who have increased their prosperity, who have built a habitable country. In fact, what made Turkey a living state is that both education and those values have collapsed, that law has been shut down, that street language is dominated as a management philosophy, that 40 million people live on the poverty line, and that's what makes it a luxury, a sense of power in palaces. Unfortunately, trying to reflect these personal beka problems as Turkey's beka problem has become an inextricable problem in our country. In the end, it must be our common concern to solve them, to make this a habitable country again. Is there anyone trying to divide Turkey? Of course I do, but I can see that the laws we're talking about before the outside forces are inside, dividing society more and more, and it's putting oil on the bread of those who want to divide it from the outside. So we're warning the power that feeds on this discrimination here once again: get back from this mistake as soon as possible. Without disseminating people on the hill and making them more likely to fight below, I would like to suggest that the bill be withdrawn without the need for labels, a number of approaches, such as "Hearts" or "indiscriminates," and I would like to extend my regards to all of you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0559par0050	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the 10th article of the Law Bill 497, we propose that they give it to their authority in either the physical or electronic environment, which is included in the 10th article of the Common Law Bill. Ziya Pir Huda Kaya Mehmet Ali Aslan Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0560par0059	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0559par0060	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0561par0061	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0559par0062	Batman MP Mehmet Ali Aslan is asking for a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lion.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0562par0065	Mr. President and Mr. General Assembly, I salute you. I was really surprised when this bill first came to the media, when it came to talk about it, that the country had this number of beards, and it was actually more visible than my beards, and when there were problems in this reputation, I really resent the fact that a bill like this came up in a way that would be the country's agenda, and I don't understand. Look, I'll only share one of the country's problems with you. Before that, let me tell you why the Chinese are jealous of us. The Chinese are jealous of us, too. This Great Wall of China has been built in 2,000 years, and the ground is 30 feet [9 m] wide, where a taxi can pass by a car, and the ground is built with a wall of 4m high. It has hundreds of towers. Approximately 2,000 miles in 2,000 years, 12 meters a day. The height of the sea is 1,570 meters. This is Hop Pass between Mardin and Midyat, not completed in two kilometers and seven years. This road has not been completed for 2,555 days, which means it has not been within a foot of a day.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0563par0068	But the ground is granite, so they can't work.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0562par0070	This road would have been over if it had been scratched with a needle. Of course, it would be unfair to compare the floor of the Great Wall of China with the floor of the road between Mardin and Midyat. The ground of the Great Wall of China is much steeper and contains much larger rocks and so on, rivers and rocks. Now, when we bring this up, some authorities in particular say: Why didn't Ahmet Turk do it? Why didn't Mardin Metropolitan Municipality do it? Ya, the first was not Mardin capital city in 2010. Ahmet Türk was elected in 2014. The tender was given in 2010. And secondly, municipalities don't look at interstates, major cities don't. Defensive defenses are being made to manipulate the public completely, like this. I really want to pay for this. So there's something we don't know? Why isn't a two-mile road completed in seven years? So it's a problem. Look what we're dealing with, but the 2km is not finished, I'm afraid. Now, you've seen it sometimes, in the back of the trucks, in the back of the city vans, in the back of the taxis. Now, we say to the Chinese and to the Grounders, "Don't be anxious, don't be jealous, please don't work, it'll be like this with you. Another issue: A high-speed train tender is planned on the route of Elazig, Malatya and Diyarbakir this month. Batman wants the high-speed train on these routes in Cizre, Kurtalan, Midyat, Nusaybin, Kızıltepe, but they want a really fast train. They call it the fast train between Istanbul and Ankara, but it takes four hundred miles in four hours, so it's equivalent to 110 kilometers per hour. This really isn't a roller coaster.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0564par0074	Congressman, since the 250km/hour infrastructure is incomplete...
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0562par0075	But obviously, it's 300 miles in four hours. There are fast trains in China that reach 500km. Let us be jealous of China; let the world be for all, and let there be no world for us. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0565par0078	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are four motions on Article 11 that I read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of the Law Bill 497 be removed from the draft text. Ziya Pir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Hüda Kaya Mehmet Ali Aslan Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0566par0089	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0565par0090	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0567par0091	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0565par0092	İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0568par0095	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have been told throughout the day that in many ways this law should not be the cause of this law, it is a law that has been brought in when there is no need, and there are objections. I, for one, would like to say once again that this law should be withdrawn, but I know that's not going to happen. Because this is not a law that is studied and drafted by serious negotiations and criticism of everyone, especially the criticism of women who are dealing with them. With some materials in it, yes, there may have been a demand for improvements. Every law's got to have something like that in it. But once again, I want to say that the important thing in this country is to prevent violence against girls, young women, and as our deputy in Bedia has just stated, it is the implementation of the contract, which is called the Istanbul Convention because we are proud to sign the first one and it is signed in Istanbul. It's a contract that brings us serious obligations. Now, when you look at it, the legal changes that have actually been made since the 1990s -- for example, in 1998, today, 6284, then 4320, the Law provides a lot of measures to prevent violence against women -- or even the Universal Convention of Human Rights, when you actually look at it, can be enough to achieve equality of women and men, if you look at it with that kind of interpretation. But it wasn't enough, it was the International Convention on Discriminalism for Women, and the CEDAW contract and the Constitution had a lot of texts, a lot of articles, and a principle of equality. Those laws weren't enough, but they were signed much closer to the Istanbul Convention. Now, who's stopping this? Seriously, who's the one who got so many women killed and didn't stop it? We all need to keep our heads down and think about this together. Indeed, the father of Helin Palandöken, the father of our young daughter who was murdered last week, said, "Yes, a law against violence can be passed in a very short time, and why didn't it pass?" Actually, there's no need to pass the law. Because, anyway, like I said, there are enough laws, but what's important is effective practice. What we always see in Turkey is the implementation of a law, its effective implementation. Friends, any of you who say torture is acceptable, or is it okay for a child to get married? Or is there any one who says rape, sexual assault, yes, why not? Or when you think about your own children, can you really replace a child who is forced to get married? Can you imagine, you're trying to give them the best training, you want them to get to the best points? Men or women, you don't think you're discriminated against, you don't want me to marry my daughter, you don't just want me to teach my son. You've come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we've all come, and in the end, that's what we think. Well, then, if that's what we think, listen to the screams of those young girls, young women. If there's even the slightest chance that there's a doubt about it, don't try to pass a law like that. Do you really think that something like this could happen before? Why are so many women's organizations against it? Because they're all urban or anti-religious or something? No. There are a lot of people here or there are people who are against it. Why do they object? He also discriminates between religions. You're not giving another officer that authority, the right to marry. But I say we don't sacrifice young women, we really listen to their voices. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0569par0102	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly to Prime Minister We propose and propose that the 45th article, replaced by Article 11 of the Law Bill 497, shall be replaced in the following manner. Baki Simsek Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Mustafa Mit Zühal Topcu Open Mind Mehmet Erdogan In order to determine the use of data sharing, within the scope of sharing, and by what method to do so, the Ministry shall be established under the Ministry's Undersecretary of Data Sharing Board. The working and essentials of the Data Sharing Board are determined by the regulation adopted by the Ministry. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0570par0113	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0569par0114	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0571par0115	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we don't agree.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0569par0116	Mersin MP Baki Simsek who wants a word on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0572par0119	Mr. President, I have made a commitment on the motion on behalf of the National Movement Party in Article 11 of the Law on Change in Some Laws under the Law of Population Services 497. I hereby salute the High Council. The number of institutions and organizations still serves in connection with the I.D. System is 2.020. This bill stipulates that public institutions and institutions, universities, notaries and banks will not request a population registration sample, residential document and identity card sample from the citizen and provide it through the I.D.S. As a result, it is intended to increase the number of institutions and organisations that operate by connecting with the I.D. System. In this regard, it is stated that the aim is to eliminate all bureaucratic transactions leading to the waste of time, unnecessary rush and waste of paper. In fact, a pointless practice, such as running a citizen to put the information in one pocket of the state, will cease to exist. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as the National Movement Party, we are fully supporting the removal of bureaucratic proceedings that have led to a waste of paper, a waste of time in the affairs within the state itself. However, the service presentation of the bill also allows financial companies such as electricity, natural gas companies, and banks, insurance and pension companies to share address information based on direct address information. This arrangement, which includes the private sector in personal data, also provides a number of risks to institutions such as financial institutions that remain outside the public institution. In terms of national security and intelligence, especially the protection of personal data, this information is more important to whom to share it with. ▪ With this arrangement, we will finish paperwork. Our citizens will no longer be able to deal with the municipality of residence, with the form of a birth certificate, or with the protection of our people's personal data, not to be endangered by the privacy of private life, life and property safety. The Data Sharing Board, which will decide on who to share serious information with, must be established, not in the General Manager's office, but in the Ministry and under the Undersecretary's office, and must be included in the board, as well as in the legal advisor and the head of the Information Agency. Mr. President, after announcing our views on the matter, I would like to enter into the issue of Syrian refugees, another problem in Turkey. Money is sent to municipalities according to the population in Turkey. However, there are hundreds of thousands of Syrians living in Antwerp, Urbana, Hatay, Hatay, Kilis, Mersin and Adana, where nearly 2 million of the 3 million Syrians live, and the municipalities also serve the Syrians here. However, the money sent to the municipalities does not include the Syrians. We would like your ministry to support this and send funds to municipalities based on the number of Syrians who live here. Also, again, we're going to investigate the municipalities, we're going to investigate them. You're saying that our municipalities are more than the entire budget of the Ankara Metropolitan Municipality's supply assistance or social assistance municipalities. Together with the Metropolitan Law, the budget of the municipal municipalities was not as high as the budget of the city's only road manager or science directorate. Here, too, to make an arrangement, to allow municipalities to carry out services such as infrastructure, roads, and other benefits, through Prime Ministerial Social Aid, instead of supply and coal relief, to make accurate assessments of this as direct transfer aid... because we also receive a lot of irregularities in them. The municipalities of all political parties are providing assistance under the name of social aid, as well as subsidiary assistance, and we're getting huge complaints. He demands that the municipalities be disabled in this section and that this assistance be given directly through Social Aid and to people as cash, and I hereby pay my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0573par0125	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and offer the release and release of the agreement of the insurance and pension companies, which are in the framework of Banking Law No. 5/6/2007 and under the Act of Insurance and Insurance Act 5684, in Article 11 of the Charter 497. Gürsel Erol Nihat Yeşil Kemal Zeybek Hayati Tekin Murat Minister Burcu Koksal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0574par0137	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0573par0138	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0575par0139	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0573par0140	It's Denizli MP Kazim Arlen who wants a word on the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Arslan, you may be the last speaker of the day, but you're here with a big round of applause. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0576par0144	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with love. I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on behalf of the 497 Law on Population Services and the motion that we have submitted in Article 11 of the Law Charter for Change in Some Laws, and I will address it. Dear MPs, the 11th article we're discussing is about the use of the I.D. System. Now, it allows legal institutions and legal public servants to share information based on the address set by the Ministry, such as banks, insurance and pension companies, respectively. However, we've established a law here in the Supreme Assembly on the protection of personal data, but it seems that this is a conflict that has brought about a conflict that will destroy that protection, even in the point where it will eliminate that law. Now, even though it's said that the Board of Data Sharing is going to be created by the General Manager, I don't think this board can do this job properly, because the privacy of personal data, privacy of private life is completely destroyed here, and there's a personal data situation that can be delivered to many private banks, financial institutions, insurance and pension companies, which I would like to say is certainly not a place in the law, which should not be a place for it to be removed. Dear lawmakers, the main point of this arrangement is the 6th article, although it's been here, I'd like to say a few words on this one. In particular, I would like to make it clear that the marriage authority given to the county and county mufti in Article 6 is indeed a violation of the Constitution's Article 174/4.) and of our Civil Law. In fact, even when I look at the general reason for the law, there's a general reason for the rapid execution and facilitating of services, although there's no difficulty here, the marriage officials are doing it very well, very quickly, very well. I've looked at the reason for the matter, and I'm reading it, and it's been passed off without any grounds. So there's no meaning, no benefit, no motive, Mr. Secretary. So I'd like to point out why you put this substance there, and why we're having trouble understanding it. My dear friends, I'm not saying this because I'm against a religious wedding, but I would like to point out that this kind of arrangement is really an arrangement that allows us to separate a new society and create twosomes between people, different structures, different ideas, to emerge. Now, what you're saying is that the process of marriage is facilitated, and we see that it's really very easy for citizens to do the marriage process. That means there's no need for this arrangement, my dear friends. Now, something is being done that a general assessment of the law is being made, a general arrangement is being made, but you're exposing an arrangement that destroys the system by putting different substances into it, eliminates secularism, eliminates equality, creates discrimination among citizens, and you're really trying to pass it through the approval of the House. My dear friends, the country needs unity, unity, solidarity; it certainly doesn't need an arrangement to cause such divisions. I'd like to point out that quickly avoiding these needs to be really focused on the country's important problems. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0577par0156	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm reading the final motion on Article 11: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the following way, we propose and propose that Article 5490 of Law Article 497 shall be changed into Article 497 in the form of Article 11 (6) which is specified in the first joke of the declaration of the Law. Mehmet Mush Mehmet Doğan Kubat Salih Çetinkaya Hasan Basri Kurt Necip Shield Mahmoud Attila Kaya The Ministry has established the data stored in the central database within the framework of the procedures and foundations specified in this law; the companies providing identity data as part of the public service, as part of the 03/06/2007 date and 5684 Insurance Act, insurance and pension companies operating under the Insurance Act 19/10/2005, banks operating under Banking Act 5411, Risk Center and Article 5411, as part of the last joke of Article 73 of the Law, can share information, 21/11/2012, Financial Rental Renting and Finance Act; and the company's financial services and other information on the basis of the Banking Act of the Banking and the Bank, under the same framework of the Banking Act 5411 and the Banking Act 5411, according to the latest article of the Banking Act, and the Banking Institutions of the Banking Systems of the Banking and the Banking Systems, can share information in accordance with the last information. In the first joke, only those involved can receive information based on their work and operations, and they can't use the information they receive for any other purpose other than the fulfillment of defined services; they can't give it to anyone except those mentioned in Articles 44 or Article 44. Officials in all phases of the system are also obliged to follow these rules. This obligation continues after public servants have left their posts. This joke is based on the laws of the Protection of Personal Data Act 24/3/2016 and date 6698. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0578par0168	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0577par0169	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0579par0170	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit05spe0577par0171	I'm reading the reason: In the service presentation, infrastructure companies such as electricity, gas companies, such as gas companies, operate under Banking Law 5411, the Risk Center and companies established to share information in accordance with the latest joke of Article 731 of this law, are able to share financial rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Act 6361. It is also intended for those who violate the Protection of Personal Data Act 6698 to be processed according to the provisions of this law. The data on the identity of the person is intended to be shared with the institutions and organisations mentioned above, as well as with those who provide public service. On the other hand, the article is adapted between the jokes, referring to the (1)th joke in its (3)th, (4)th and (6) sixth jokes. I submit to your votes the commission's commendation, the government's participation, Mehmet Doğan Kabbat and his friends' motion: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 11th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are some other things we're going to do before we take a break from the merger. Now, I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I'm taking a two-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-10-18sit06spe0577par0001	I now open the Sixth Session of the 10th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 497. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 461 and Foreign Affairs Commission Report, which is ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 464 and Foreign Affairs Commission Report, which is ranked in the 3rd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since there is no other topic on our agenda, it is Thursday, October 19, 2017, at 14 p.m., to discuss draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of the decision. I wish you good night, closing the assembly at 00.
