tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 4th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you five minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. Here you go. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Diyarbakır MP Siegel Yiğitalp, who wants to speak about the trustees. Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, if you'd be so kind as to offer some peace in the hall...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0001par0012	Give me a break. Congressmans, the speaker is on the stand. Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0003par0019	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today is October 5th, the Day of the Teachers of the World. However, as is World Labor Teachers Day, we are going through a period in which 1,128 academics are being punished for 5,600, 40 years. Again, don't let only the children die. Do you know, though, that the children are dying? A teacher and his punishment again... let there be no more death in this land for those who seek peace. We are going through the darkest, most toxic period in the history of this country... when those who say, "Let there be no more death. " This is not enough, however, that I had made a promise about the trustees assigned to our municipalities, but we are going through a period where the policies on trustees are up to the academics for 5,640 years, and we know how to be worse every day as a whole. The trustees have been assigned to our municipalities, along with the coup of July 20th, and the trustees assigned to our municipalities have turned them into police stations, in which the public foot of service is operating, as well as the financial police department. That wasn't enough, he's even doing all kinds of embargos about giving out cars to funerals. Well, despite that, so many trustees have been appointed... look, we've been mayoral for 20 years, 24/7, every day, but every day in our municipalities, we haven't had a penny of corruption, one day in a day, but your trustees, nine trustees, were fired for corruption within ten months. Where were these trustees taken, why were they taken and where they served, were they subject to administrative investigations, were they subject to any criminal investigations, there are no answers. The President is not capable of...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0004par0024	Go ahead, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0003par0026	In a place where we, these people, these people of Turkey, every day address the Assembly as a solution, unfortunately, when you look at it, there's not a single approach to a solution, there's no reflex, passing the day, saving the day, and now all sorts of decisions of one person are based on pledges and obedience. Look, when our trustees were appointed, AKP's municipalities applauded and watched quietly. In fact, after the war against the congregation -- on the basis of AKP's capital city mayor Kadir Topbaş -- he said, "I will build a treason cemetery here." He even suggested such heavy, challenging evils. Nevertheless, this monotheist mentality has now been suspended or resigned. When our MPs are taken, when the commission is established with the joint union of 3 parties for our immunity, they are HDP, DBP, Kurds, it is not a problem for us, they can be arrested, they can be tried, their proxy can be dropped, and trustees can be appointed to their municipalities. One MP of CHP has also been arrested. When trustees were appointed to our municipalities, the municipalities of AKP have also been appointed trustees. I want to say that when you remain silent about the evil done to a human being or the evil done to a people, the evil done to an understanding, he comes to your door, whether you like it or not, you are affected by it, just as Kadir Topbaş was affected. But even though he's made some of the worst suggestions he's ever made... In Diyarbakir, the trustees who were appointed to Yenişehir and Kayapınar are the trustees who took over after they were relieved of duty... look, where did those appointed trustees go? One of them went to İstanbul to be a trustee in Yenişehir, and the trustee from Yenişehir is going to Istanbul as a trustee again. The trustee, who was appointed to Kayapınar, was taken away from him, and went to Mersin. It's been taken for corruption, see, I insist, I stress, it's been corrupted, corruption. This is no ordinary event. It's not as much as the arrest of Kurd. You see the arrest of Kurds as normal. You see it as normal for them to be deputized. You see it as normal for them to be appointed trustees, but it's out of control now. When we warned you, we came to the plane. You didn't see it. Look, we're at the bottom of the cliff. And at the bottom of the cliff... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and I'm really amazed at the fact that you're still showing the same reflexes, and I say hello to all of our people who are watching us from here.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0005par0034	Mr. Heroalp, thank you. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Mersin MP Aytuğ Atıcı who asked for a comment on the latest situation in the October 2nd World Day of Avoiding Violence and the Özgecan case. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0006par0039	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book promise on October 2nd because of World Violence Day. I salute those who pass their way through peace and justice, those who long for a world without violence, those who are not part of violence with action and speech. Dear friends, in the last 15 years, I'm afraid we've seen violence grow in every field day and day. Where's the violence? Violence rages everywhere, in the house, in the street, in the hospital, in the bus, in everything you can imagine. If you ask, who has the most to contribute to the increase in violence? No doubt it belongs to those who govern the state. Look, you'll remember the Özgecan Lion case that we all followed very closely at one time and burned our hearts. I would like to share with you the latest situation in that case: the Supreme Court violated a verdict against a defendant and the defendant was retributed last week in Mersin. Do you know the reason for the Supreme Court's decision to break it? I'll tell you. The Supreme Court said that tens of thousands of women every day are not mandatory mass living spaces for which tens of thousands of women are forced to ride. Look, the Supreme Court didn't accept a mandatory mass living area for tens of thousands of women, so the rape charge cancelled the increase in punishment for being committed in a public vehicle, and unfortunately, the Taros court did. What does that mean? This means that women will no longer be able to safely ride public transportation. This decision serves the political ideology that wants to tie the woman home, and it is never acceptable. If you, the AKP government and lawmakers, are genuinely opposed to this situation, we must immediately secure public transports with a legal arrangement and declare this is a mandatory common habitat. Thus, the punishment for harassment and rapes here can be increased and deterrent. The way to avoid attacks in mass transports is never to separate buses, trains as harem-like welcomes and paint the buses that women take in pink. To believe that this practice will prevent harassment is to be naive, to say the least, but it can only be part of an ideological plan. Look, listen, 285 women were killed in the first nine months of 2017. The number was 397, with a gun, 317, last year. Look, these aren't just simple numbers, I'm talking about the soul, and I'm talking about the woman. In the first five months of 2017, 38 women were raped -- the number we know and most of them don't say that -- 50 women were harassed. Do you believe these numbers? It's much more than that, much more than that. Well, if the President is to be cut off, I will. Anyone who thinks that violence will be reduced in an environment where he uses mafia language is wrong. I can't imagine the point of violence if everyone tries to break the rules in their field. If the President breaks the rules, someone will beat someone in the vehicle, beat them to death, and it'll be a skill to broadcast it on social media. Someone puts a skirt on someone, gets themselves shot, cuts the code and spreads it on social media, and you just watch with your mouth open. That's why you have to call them "stop." Look, violence is increasing in health care every day. The AKP Prime Minister, the Minister of Health, the professors will be at your feet. When he says, "Let him turn the patient away, I'll mix his forehead with the doctor." The violence of the doctor and the health worker is increasing every day. When we said, "Please stop violence." TRT heard us, and I wish it was a deaf thing, and he prepared a program, and I wish he didn't. And the people who saw that show thought that tattooing a doctor was a fun job. Those who watched the program perceived that the doctor's tattoo was an ordinary job, and how did you beat up the doctor by interviewing those who beat the doctor and put him in the hospital? When they said, "How did you beat the doctor?" I beat him up so bad that I hit him, and I hit him, and he shot an uncle." Guys, we're not getting anywhere until you let go of the language of violence. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0007par0052	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. The third non-responsored statement belongs to Konya MP Hadji Ahmet Özdemir (Akmet Özdemir) who asked to be spoken on behalf of Mosques and Religious Officers Week. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0008par0057	Mr. President, I'd like to begin by welcoming all of you with a greeting, with respect, love, with the precious MPs and our beloved nation watching us from the beginning of the television. The first structure built on earth, as the Qur'an called it, is a mosque, and this mosque is still standing today, and hundreds of thousands, millions are flocking here every year to visit and worship it. The name of this structure is the Masjid-i Haram. In the three days that the prophet also emigrated from Mecca to Medina, the first building he built is a mosque, and this mosque is still standing, and again, hundreds of thousands are visited by millions. It is also called the Masjid-i Kuba (Masjid al-Masjid al-Masjid) because it was built in the village of Kuba, and three days later, the first building of the Prophet Hazreti after his journey to Medina is still a mosque and serves as the second most sacred temple of Muslims today. This sense of masjid was absorbed by our Muslim nation after we became Muslims, and I think its sweetest expression was in the words of Sultan Mahmoud of Gaza, the famous Islamic historian, the symbiotic, orientist Philip K. Hitti mentions this word, and praises our people for its words. Mahmoud of Gazan said: "If I build a palace or a palace and I do not build a mosque or mosque on the edge, how will I look upon God on the Day of Judgment? The mosque became not only a mosque, but a complex in our understanding of it, with its healing place, its tavern, its inn, its bath, its interface, its market. For him, Sultan Mahmoud of Gaza must have poured out his understanding in his poem to Sakarya, which spoke to Sakarya: "Hani Yunus Emre, who walked along the coast / The army that sprinkled freckles on its back?..... he tried to display that understanding in such a manner. A British traveler had also scribbled on his travel from Istanbul after traveling, saying, "I can't believe that mosques in Istanbul were built to last a hundred years, while the mosques in Istanbul were built to be perfect, curved, and centuries, and homes were simple, plain, and simple, in a way that points to the temporaryness of the world, but don't let it deceive you, these simple, simple structures are as expensive as the structures on the banks of the London Thames in England. Of course, the mosque isn't just complex and history. The mosques are social insurance, the basic structure of community peace, the first of which we've been trained, the first of which we've experienced spiritual feelings. Wherever there is a mosque, wherever there is a minaret ascends to it, it is for Us; and We have already passed by it. And know that wherever there is no Minare or mosque, We have not set foot in it, nor have We passed through it, so that there are neither minarets nor mosques which have been sprinkled with freckles. The mosques are very important institutions, they still carry out their duties, but -- there's a small review of the construction of the mosques here -- unfortunately, mosques are now attached to the edges, not the heart of the city, not the center of the neighborhood, but the basements. And that's where I end my words by pointing out this mistake, celebrating the week of the mosques and the clergy, congratulating.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0009par0066	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. Congressmans, I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who have requested a moment's notice from their seats. I'm reading the names of the MPs I'm going to make, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Akin, Mr. Atici, Mr. Constant, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Enç, Mr. Yım, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Tellcuoğlu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Ilıcan, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Openkapı and since he is a teacher, I'm going to promise Mr. Havutça. Before I make a promise, I kiss the hands of all our teachers, bow before them with respect. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Tezcan, please.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0010par0076	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm celebrating World Teacher's Day and kissing the hands of our teachers. I wish our new year of legislation would bring blessings to us, to our nation, and to our country. Our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, was in Iran yesterday to make his official visit. They encouraged energy-to-tourism, road-to-road transport, defence industry, all kinds of areas, intensively, the work of concerned institutions and ministers. Trade between the two countries has been agreed on with domestic currency. The consensus on the so-called independence referendum to lead our territory into chaos has also been highlighted. For the first time in the history of Islam, Muslims are facing a global conflict of sects. This visit by our President is the most appropriate response to the mentality that has been planted among Muslim countries for many years, trying to fuel sectarian conflicts. And I think we should come together to see that Muslim countries are united, united and united, that those with different ideology and beliefs follow the same opinions and strategy at common points. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0011par0081	Thank you. Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0012par0084	Mr. President, thank you. The ruling party on the so-called independence referendum in northern Iraq has not shown a clear attitude before or after the referendum. When the President closes the valleys, the Minister of Economy says the economic embargo is a dangerous expression. Finally, a AKP MP said that no matter how many times you ignore the referendum, there is a will declaration there. In such a serious matter threatening Turkey's back, the government's attitude to temper is never acceptable. The government must immediately take a clear stand and present a fluid foreign policy. The policies that will harm our national interests and our independence, which give us the opportunity to be deceived, deceived, and saved the day must be abandoned. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0013par0087	Thank you. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0014par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, the teacher Ayþe, who called a TV channel about two and a half years ago, told of what happened in the southeast, not only the children should die, but the mothers should not cry. She was sued for terrorism propaganda. The trial ended recently, the Supreme Court phase ended, and Ayþe was sentenced to a year and three months in prison. After these words were spoken, Ayse teacher was lynched by the ruling media, and was told that she was not even a teacher, that she was a member of a terrorist organization. A teacher who says, "Don't let the children die while the mobsters who have instilled violence into society are free to walk the streets." A teacher who says, "Don't let them die." Now he has to give birth to his own child in prison. I leave the justice and humanity of the AKP to our nation's discretion.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0015par0094	Mr. Constant...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0016par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, congratulations on Teacher's Day, kissing the hands of all our teachers. Our courts made a very important decision yesterday for the sewer team that set out to attempt the life of Mr. President in the July 15 bloody coup attempt. Although these traitors attempted a coup against law, democracy and the Constitution, they were judged within the framework of the law and the Constitution, they received the necessary punishments. In the conscience of our beloved nation, traitors who have already been executed will continue to pay their debts to this nation in the Hereafter, even though they have already been punished in this world. Our nation is convinced that all coupters will be punished as soon as possible. Until the end of the trial, we wait for the extradition of the terrorist leader in Pennsylvania. The 15th of July reminisces of our martyrs, and we pray that the Lord will never show this nation such days again.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0017par0100	Thank you. Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0018par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the Day of Teachers. Unfortunately, there are still 300,000 teachers in our country who are still waiting for the appointment, and over 100,000 teachers are not closed, and problems are increasing in our educational system. AKP governments have changed curriculums six times, the Minister of National Education has changed curriculum three times. AKP governments are constantly messing with the system and are kicking the crap out of education. The curriculum is free of the values and science of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. For teachers, the rights of identity have not been improved, the teachers will feel secure, they will be paid enough, and their rights will be regulated. In education, modern, secular, scientific education is the only way that is right and necessary for our future, and I wish that the government would return with its applications as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0019par0106	Thank you, too. Mr Enç...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0020par0109	The words come out of the mayor's mouth and she tells a councilwoman and she has to leave the meeting. These are the words from the mouth of Ülgür Gökhan, who has ruled the municipality of Çanakkale since 2002. I condemn him for his words. I also ask that those who accuse our President of dictatorship and tyranny turn around and look at a Çanakkale municipality, and I expect a statement from our friends from the Republican People's Party of Çanakkali. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0019par0111	Thank you, too. Mr. Self-Responsibility.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0021par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to Mr. Minister of National Education. The situation of about 22,000 unemployed master teachers who find the place of courses at public education centres and pay for their own expenses, rent, electricity, water, and other expenses, without job security, severance guarantees, handcrafts, clothing, embroidery. When they work on these conditions, they want to be recruited by the same rights as almost 20,000 master teachers. I hope the Minister will consider it and do as he pleases. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0022par0117	Thank you, too, Your Highness. Dear Yým...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0023par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I salute our great Turkish nation. I celebrate Teacher's Day for all our teachers, especially my father. Last week, Mr. Finance Minister's statements announced a 40 percent increase in motor vehicle taxes as of 2018 Christmas. You will not put the citizen in the vehicle he has taken by force. You've seen too much of this citizen's small vehicle? You're gonna sell his car. I'm telling you, take this raise back. TEFE, you explain TÜFE 8.8%, or we don't know if we don't see it, you're giving us a 40 percent increase. You don't give out subcontractors, but you also sell out the old car the subcontractor was on. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0024par0124	Thank you, too. Mr. Tarhan instead of Mr. Topal...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0025par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. Although we have said so many times before, the road work that has been going on for months has still not been completed at the Bigeli-Caararova-Bayramoglu turn. Traffic problems occur during the day, as road work has not been completed in Gebze, whose population is more than 50 provinces. Our citizens suffer for hours of traffic because of their connections to Gebze-Caararova-Darica, which has become a ball of problems. When will the government, which boasts the construction of roads and bridges, complete its pathways to Gebze-Caariova-Darica? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0026par0130	Thank you, too. Mr. Wellercuoğlu...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0027par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. The Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures has been dismissed by court order following the trial of the Chamber of Chemical Engineers, the Governing Body, the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. The rooms are constitutional institutions. Both the Ministry's case and the court's decision are against the Constitution. The Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures has opposed zoning events in our country, distorted urbanization, natural and environmental massacres, privatisation plunders, antidemocratic practices, damage to the state, and I think all of this has disturbed the power. Occupational rooms have always worked for the interests of the country. He condemns the pressure the Ministry and the government are trying to impose on our rooms by the hand of justice, and I wish they would put an end to these pressures as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0028par0136	Thank you, too. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0029par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, the population of Upper Dudullu neighbourhood in the district of Umraniye, İstanbul Province, is 20. In this 20,000-strong Upper Dudul neighborhood, there is no high school, and our citizen needs high school. Our over 20,000 population Upper Dudul neighborhood needs a hospital, no hospital. We don't have a police station in our 20,000-strong Upper Dudul neighborhood, and they have serious security issues. There's a zoning problem in our Upper Dudulu neighborhood, and the zoning problem can't be fixed; there's property issues, the deed problem can't be fixed. In our Upper Dudulu neighborhood, our citizen needs a multifunctional cultural center to improve the quality of life and to improve its development, not to build a cultural center. When will the victims of our Upper Dudulu neighborhood be removed? I demand political power, the ministry, that this be taken care of. My regards and regards.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0030par0142	Thank you. Mr. All...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0031par0145	Thank you, Mr. President. Deputy Prime Minister Mehmet Simsek does not raise taxes on the tax hike of motor vehicles for no reason. There will be an additional 17-18 billion dollars to fight terrorism next year. We made a choice. We decided to do public expenditures, taxes on the basis, tax revenues. He made a statement and stated that there would be new tax hikes. I'm asking the Minister of Finance if the defense costs will be taxed, will Genghis Construction's 424 million debts, the one who swears to the nation, be collected first? Is there going to be a limitation on the government's covert funding budget to pay for counterterrorism costs? Have you ever considered spreading wealth to the bottom instead of spreading taxes to cover expenses?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0030par0147	Mr. Ilican...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0032par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. After our country's tough exit to the pirate referendum in northern Iraq, the terrorist organization PKK's attacks have systematically increased. Finally, four of our soldiers were killed in Hakkari Yüksekova. I pray for God's mercy to our martyrs, and I pray for immediate healing to our four soldiers who continue their treatments. As our president, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and the relevant units of our state have stated at every opportunity, our fight against terrorism continues with a constant, uninterrupted determination, until the last terrorist is neutralized. For this purpose, all of our security forces are shoulder to shoulder, carrying on this struggle with great determination, as well as careful that no innocent citizens be harmed. With the great support of our people in the region, I hope that these traitors will soon be wiped out. Despite all the threats coming from the inside and the outside, the only nation our President has adopted as a principle, the only nation he speaks of at every opportunity, the only flag... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...one country, one state understanding, the power given to us by the national will, our government will reach the targets as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0033par0156	Thank you, Mr. Ilican. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0034par0159	In the AKP's 2002 election declaration, teachers' qualifications will be increased so that their teaching profession can gain the dignity it deserves in society. In parallel with this, autonomy rights and working conditions will be improved. The question of teachers during their 15 years of power has grown, tens of thousands of teachers have been expelled with KHKs, thousands of them suspended, disreputed, denied enough rights to be counted. Nuriye and Semih, whose bodies were put to death because their work was unlawfully taken away from them, were ignored. A teacher who says that children should not die while small children are inoculated with Jihad and violence in schools is sentenced to prison. Again, our teachers have been influenced by the many-time-changing educational system. I condemn those who have caused all kinds of pressure, lawlessness, and loss of rights to our teachers for their political goals, and celebrate the 5th of October Day of Teachers of the World of education and science workers.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0035par0162	Mr. Open...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0036par0164	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers have begun in the capital yesterday at the Ataturk Cultural Center. In the historic process, Elazığ is subject to serious publicity with all the counties of our country, expressing its fundamental codes through social, political, cultural deployments. The main goal of working hard and hard work is to introduce the city we live in to the whole world. In this regard, the visits of our valued deputies are of great value to us. In this way, we have brought to the presence of a whole world our unique network, our Keban, our Basque, our Dichil, our Mining, our Almaphayah, our Arkakah, our Palu, the Hivesmen, and our Karakochan. I thank you now for your support, and give my heartfelt thanks to all who have organized this event and expressed our presence. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0035par0167	Thank you, too. Mr. Havutça, please.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0037par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is October 5th, World Teacher's Day, where I celebrate the World Teachers Day of all our teachers, education and science workers. Mr. President, our teachers are awaiting the appointment of 450,000 teachers today from our Minister of National Education, who are waiting for the appointment of 450,000 teachers, who are expecting to be stopped by the contract teacher's purchases based on the interview, which means direct torpedo in the teacher's purchases. Forty-five thousand of our teachers, who have been expelled in accordance with the law decrees that operate like the guillotine of the State of Emergency, are waiting to return to their profession. Our teachers want their union work to stop being viewed as a criminal weapon, as a criminal element. Our teachers, the scientific, free mind and science, expect the secular education system that prioritizes knowledge to be definitely part of our schools' curriculum. And most strikingly, our teachers are now living in poverty...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0038par0174	Thank you. Now, members of lawmakers, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who have requested a word. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Party Group, Mr. Toğrul will speak on behalf of the People's Party Group. We'll start with Mr. Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0039par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, especially our martyrs, who have been among the masters of heaven during this week's intense fight against terrorism, wish you God's mercy, and my condolences to the great Turkish nation. At the same time, today -- as the speakers just described -- is October 5th, the Day of Teachers of the World. I hereby celebrate this day of our teachers who teach us not one letter, but many letters. Hopefully, aside from this one-day celebration, I demand that a will be placed at the point of finding a solution to the problems of our teachers that we've been given. To add these to a few main topics: We have a really young population, we have a grown teachers' staff, we have people waiting, we have about 400,000 young people waiting with that hope. On this day, they can be given good news of the meaning of this day, of the importance of this day, that our young may be given a staff. At the same time, both our brothers and our young ones, appointed under the name of verbal teaching, have real problems. The most important of all, rather than creating these kind of day-to-day, palliative solutions in areas that are especially fighting terrorism, so do your job or my brother-in-law. And rather than say, "It's disrespectful to work" -- they're making such a request at the point of building a real solution to them, and so are we. By the way, we have trainers who have been relieved of duty, we have handlers. So just based on the membership of a union, at the point where the appointments are inadmissible, again, as our Minister has promised us earlier -- we see that these are back with court decisions, we know -- we ask specifically, we ask that they be reinstated.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0040par0186	Complete, please. Is it over?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0039par0187	Would you excuse me?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0040par0188	Of course. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0039par0190	Yes, by the way, of course, we are aware of the month of battle from our sacred months. When I say teaching, of course, I don't think it's right to pass the Lord Ali. It's not just the door to the class, it's the door to knowledge. He is the slave of forty years who taught a letter, and I cherish and cherish all the people of his people who express it symbolically. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0040par0192	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Mr. Toğrul, come in.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0041par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it's World Teacher's Day. Yeah, our teachers are just getting their reputations filed as if they're performing a technical mission, their reputations are being undermined as a lot of vacationers and under-employees, and the teaching profession is perceived as a profession that anyone can do. In reality, though, teachers are perhaps the first individuals to teach us how to create the future, what kind of life you want, and we are all the work of teachers. Mr. President, unfortunately, during the AKP, our teachers were greatly discredited. Our teachers have been running unsecured, especially under a major pressure and persecution policy since July 2016. A total of 33,138 teachers have been exported so far. They've been suspended without the slightest investigation. Again, our teachers, especially around 11,000 teachers in Kurdish-dominated geography, were suspended without question between three months and six months. About 5,500 professors in the same way. I mean, teachers are really under a lot of pressure and persecution. Finally, a few days before the opening of the last school year, around 1,100 teachers were exiled in the region. So the exile of the 1980s, unfortunately, also happened during this period. We're not supposed to give our teachers...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0042par0199	Complete, Mr. Toğrul, I'll give you an extension.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0041par0200	Thank you, Mr. President. Although there's a teaching deficit, I'd like to point out that 438,000 teachers are currently exposed, unemployed. Again, teaching assignments, unfortunately, are being used as an arbitrary tool of staffing with arbitrary exams. We wish for these to be taken care of. We express that we will always stand by the teachers' righteous struggle until they have their rights. Mr. President, it was presented to you yesterday. Seven citizens were exposed naked to the media and were said to have been tortured. Today, five out of seven people were said to have been killed, and they are on social media, where they were exposed yesterday. If that's the case, it's a case of being captured and executed alive. I'd like to invite the Ministry to make a statement on this matter.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0043par0203	Thank you. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0044par0206	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again, I greet all our teachers with respect and gratitude on World Teacher's Day. We reminisce that all of our teachers who have prepared our young ones for life are in a life level that they don't deserve, and that we should all make a common effort to solve our teachers' problems once again, to express our respect and love to all teachers. Mr. President, Ashurrem, the month of battle, the month of battle is considered a month of mourning, the name of a day when Hazeti Hussein and 72 years of age chose to die honorably by resisting them, by resisting them, by resisting them, by refusing to give in to him. In this month, those in good health fast. The goal of mathematics is not to torment yourself, but to prevent the next act of evil and slaughter, and to make them forget. Zeinel Abidin, who was sick in the massacre of Kerbala, was also known as an opportunity to thank God for the survival of his descendants. Therefore, the battle ends in the tradition of ashram. When you look at world history, there is no ceremony in any country in the world where a soup is intertwined with grief and a debt of gratitude after such significant and profound death. In Imam Hussein Kerbela, the true religion, the Islamic morality, the insubordinateness of the oppressor, the honorable posture...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0045par0211	Please complete, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0044par0212	...exemplary, freedom, justice, honesty, and Yazeit represents a structure that will slaughter people for the sake of violence, power and power. There are cruel people today. This resistance and the honorable conduct of the Lord Hussein, and an understanding that prefers death at the expense of their lives, are coming today as a stand against the oppressors. There are oppressors, but there are millions of people who will resist injustice in the face of the oppressors. This death of Hussain the Lord, and the death of his companions, shall not be forgotten, neither shall they be forgotten. Their death has always been a memory to be respected for fighting the oppressors. We express our respect for Huseyin and his companions. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0046par0216	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0047par0219	Mr. President, thank you very much. It's World Teacher's Day. I'm celebrating this day for all the world's teachers and teachers. One foot in the teaching profession is really the whole world -- and in that sense, today has a different significance -- and one foot in its own land is its own culture, like the compass of the ruler. Our teachers, in line with that understanding, remember that we are part of humanity, but they also raise our children in the direction of the sensitivities of this geography, culture, history, and future. I give them my thanks from here. When the EC PARTY comes to power, there is about 25 per cent difference between the population of Turkey and its current population. During that time, we increased the number of teachers by more than 100 percent. That's one of the important things that we invest in teachers when you turn them into maths, which is basically what we do for our students and for our future. The population has increased by 25 per cent, and the percentage of teachers has increased by more than 100 per cent. The result of this is that fewer students fall to each teacher and our teachers develop closer relationships with their students; one of the most fundamental elements of education is that we have a plan, a plan, a plan to ensure that. Many schools have opened. The EC PARTY has made a great effort over the past 15 years in order to improve Turkey's quality of education, continue training on modern and scientific foundations. When you say education in this land, certainly what is being held by the curriculum on education is not in the form of criticism.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0048par0224	Complete, please, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0047par0225	Because there are deep historical foundations, perspectives on the future. We, modernity, are open to all kinds of criticisms that are based on scientific criteria, but I'd like to remind you that criticisms such as apologetic, shoe cutters are of no use to both those who do this and the country. As we passed through it, the sacred months, the pain of Kerbala, are a symbol of our memory of all the historical memories that we remember in a common way. We're going through a process where our people share in this. Basically, the past gives us an idea for the future. Today, Middle Eastern geography is all about being carrioned by someone. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We believe and hope that the people of the Middle East will continue to strive for the Middle East in a perspective of freedom and will, as they share this ugly game in the ashram. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0049par0231	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Members of the Parliament, the Commission for Public Works, Development, Transport and Tourism has a statement issued under Article 34 of the Civil Code. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi (; 2/588) originally issued the Law on the Transformation of Areas Under Afet Risks No. 6306, the Law Proposal on Alternate and Substances No 2981, the Plan and the Commission on the Amendment of Article 6785, and the Commission on the Alternate Law on Alms of Treasures No. 4706 and the Amendment to the Law on Alternate Tax Law on Alternate Laws 29/1/2016. When the proposal is reviewed, it is considered to be able to make significant changes in the budget's income-goer balance in the case of law enforcement. The first joke of Article 34 of the Civil Code is that if a commission sees the bill or proposal referred to him as part of the expertise of another commission, it may, on grounds, ask that the bill or proposal be transferred to that commission. With that respect, since the proposal for the bill and budget commission is relevant to the field of expertise, I would like to move the proposal to the Plan and Budget Commission. Yours truly. Members of parliament, since the request of the Commission for Public Works, Development, Transport and Tourism is also acceptable by the Plan and Budget Commission, this request has been carried out under the Fourth Amendment of Article 34 of the Civil Code. Congressmans, we are now starting to discuss the group proposals of our political parties. First, we're going to discuss a proposal from the National Movement Party Group in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'm going to read this proposal and process it, and I'm going to put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting Thursday/10/2017 (now), I would like to ask that the following proposal be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On September 20, 2017, our motion to open parliamentary research on the possible measures and arrangements for resolving the problem of the problems given by MP Erhan Ustah, MP Erhan, who was appointed to be the head of the MP of the MHP Group and Turkish Parliament, has been suggested by reading on Thursday 5/10/2017 (now) in the General Assembly (now) to hold talks in today's unification. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the speaker of the nationalist Movement Party Group will speak on behalf of Samsun MP Erhan Usta. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0050par0265	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, as the National Movement Party Group, today we've submitted a motion to investigate the problems of the nut makers, and now I'm going to explain his motive. I salute the General Assembly. Nuts, as we all know, is a very important product for the Black Sea region. There is already tea in the Black Sea, and there is a nut; other than that, the industry is very limited, and something new is being done about tourism. Thus, the black Sea nut is very important to the Black Sea, as important to Turkey as it is to the Black Sea. Of course, we do about 70 percent of the world's nut production, 75 percent of its exports as Turkey. 8 million people eat from production to export in this chain somehow. And there's about $2 billion of exports, and there's nothing here -- almost all of the inputs are local -- maybe fertilizer, some foreign input in the drug, but other than that, the total added value is a domestic product. Now, to me, the biggest problem with nuts is that nuts have a lot of structural problems, but we always talk about nuts when they come to the door. So the harvest comes out, the nut prices go down, the manufacturer becomes the victim, what's to be done about this nut, what needs to be done, and in order to solve these structural problems, we've already -- here, so we've made a research proposal -- we need to work this issue out in a neat way. So it's a strategic product, so we're not getting enough foreign currency inputs as a country, and we're being seriously victimized by the nuts with our hands. So we need to talk about this, we need to talk about this, we need to talk about this, we need to talk about the permanent solutions outside of that warm climate. Now, for once, first the nut maker is getting poor. Nuts are low. For example, there are measures that need to be taken to increase efficiency. We're both low on the world average, and our efficiency is going down, so let's see this. It's very wavy, very sensitive to the climate. Maybe we should get some of this out of here. Nut trees need to be rejuvenated. It's a serious risk for next semester. So what we're saying today is $2 billion of exports, if this goes on, if these measures don't go on, there's a chance that exports will drop a lot more in the coming period. Entrance prices are high, from exterminating to composting, to collecting. This year, in particular, the nut maker had to pay below the cost of her nuts, and the government is responsible for that. Why is it the government? Because the nut maker was victimized because there were no measures in his day. There's a monopson, there's a one-source market, and he's a stranger. One foreign company determines all the nut prices in Turkey, in the country, that chain comes somehow and victimizes the manufacturer, has to sell the manufacturer's product at a price under its cost. So the first thing we have to do is we need to apply a guarantee price once. It's in our election statement as the National Movement Party, so we need to guarantee a price. There's got to be a functioning intervention agency on the market that's gonna set this up. I mean, there's hundreds of thousands of dealers, manufacturers, one buyer. There's no way to organize against him anyway. So that foreign firm should not be allowed to set the price -- it doesn't need to be named -- it needs to be arranged by the state. TMO unfortunately can't do it, TMO comes in late, works with the dating system; 10 liras has announced the price, 8 lira nuts are sold. Buying centers need to be more permanentized. It's been reduced from 10 per cent to 3 per cent of the Fide rights, and there are problems here. Now, therefore, the measures to prevent this monopoly must be taken by the government. The other thing to do is there's no way to store it. He's got to hand out his nuts, the manufacturer doesn't take his money, so the nut comes out of the manufacturer, we start eating them as chocolates, the whole world eats them, but there's still no price, no money. If there's any way to store it, when it doesn't offer its product, there's bound to be a little bit of an increase in prices on the market. So it's very important to process nuts. We must give special encouragement to the Black Sea. In order to build the nut processing units, we need to increase the concentration value of nuts with very specific incentives. So, the price of nut exports, that sounds a little fancy, so how can exports be determined in Turkey when a foreign company detects even domestic prices? But we see it as something that has to be done. Last word, keep the nut in check. This is a product of gold for us. You shouldn't think of it as a hump, a nut. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0051par0276	Thank you, Mr. Master. On behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Van MP Lezgin Botan will speak second on behalf of the group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Botan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0052par0281	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. At the same time, you know, we're starting this year of work again, and we're starting out short. The hostage situation continues with our co-Chairs and deputies. It reveals the status and legitimacy of the House. The fact that the Speaker of Parliament has remained silent on this matter so far will be a disgrace to the history of the House, and we want to make it known, and we're here to give our co-Chair our respects, our respect, our love. At the same time, October 5th, the World Teacher's Day. Every speaking congressman friend of ours said they kissed the teachers' hands. However, there have been decrees issued under the law, with these decrees, that the eleven teachers are now either banished or expelled from their jobs or sentenced to disciplinary action. So, like the teacher, Ayþe is now in prison because they say, "Don't let the children die, just because she wants peace."
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0053par0284	What does that have to do with nuts?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0052par0285	So I also condemn this hypocrisy while celebrating our teachers' World Teacher's Day. Dear friends, the nut maker is always treated like a stepchild. Although, as a nut maker, our country was actually among the number-one countries in the world, the nut makers had been almost ignored by AKP governments, so far have been put into the second plan. Either they were transferred at the mercy of the brokers, or you accept the price at one-sided prices, or whatever it is you're up to, they're facing informal approaches. Yes, our Black Sea people can produce two pens; one tea and one nuts. But we do see, in the way that AKP governments approach all producers, in their approach to farmers, in the way that they approach workers, the government has always been on gantry and manipulative minival, where the government has failed to fulfill its necessary responsibility and is sad that our country is not where it should deserve and our producer should be. We invite the government to take this seriously. The nut maker needs to be taken care of. In a program, a program needs to be produced and discussed with the nut maker, not the one-sided needs of the nut maker, but the nut maker, and it needs to be discussed. But you put aside the nut maker, in your own way, with your own sense of trust, with everything, in education, in health, in judgment, in all matters, if you don't listen to the opposition, that's the point of the country's future. This rantist logic needs to be abandoned. Our manufacturer needs to be supported. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0054par0290	Thank you, Mr. Botan. On top of the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal, third, Giresun MP Bkent Yener Bektasoglu will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Bektasoglu.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0055par0294	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you on behalf of the nut makers. Today, of course, I don't know what I'm going to tell you in these three minutes about the nuts, which are the largest agricultural product of our country, which is concerned about the entire Black Sea. At the same time, it's World Teacher's Day. I salute all our teachers with respect and love. Dear lawmakers, nuts are both industrial and agricultural and export. It's one of a kind. Most of the world's nut consumption is made by European countries, which are widely used as raw materials in the chocolate and candy industry. The world's nut export average of the last six years is around 660,000 tons. Turkey's share in the process is 76 per cent average. In our country, there are 700,000 hectares of nuts. We have 500 thousand nut manufacturers. Our country alone provides 60 per cent of the world's nut production and 70 per cent of its trade. Turkey obtained about $1.8 billion export revenues from nuts in the 2016-2017 production season, which is very important in this regard. It is a product that directly concerns the lives of 7 million Black Sears. The economy of 6 provinces depends on the income from the nuts, and the economy of 6 provinces rotates according to the nut. Nuts are a very strategic product for our people and for our region. The export revenue from 39 agricultural products alone is very important in this regard. The foreign currency brought to our country alone is the most important and alone enough, more than the total of nearly 40 agricultural products. Despite all of this, our national nut policy, which covers export time in Turkey, is still, unfortunately, not clear. This product and therefore, the manufacturer's fate is determined by foreign buyers and buyers on their behalf. He's been up to his ass lately. The political power holds its ground. They've created the new Zapsu. For example, after 2007, Ferrero was monopolized in Turkey, the largest nut buyer and supplier. This firm first partnered with local buyers, and then released its own factories to Turkey's sathimahiline. This company creates the free market at its own price and buys off the greengrocers. This company is an import buyer, and now unfortunately it's an exporter. This season, for the first time in its history, the price, the price, the recollet, the buyer's establishment, has entered the grower's garden without knowing. No new price has been announced. This is the first time in the history of nuts, dear friends. Since last year, workers, fertilizer, transport and other production costs have all doubled, but the cost of one kilo of nuts was around $8. In the free market, nuts are now around $9. The only product sold to cost is nuts...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0056par0301	He was just passing by a minute late.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0055par0302	I'm a minute late.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0057par0303	You shouldn't have come. I'll give you an extra minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0058par0306	Two seasons ago, dear friends went for 20 lira. Last season, we had a nut about $16, $17. But since the foreign firm was the only one on the market, it manipulated and lowered the price of nuts down to $8. Despite all our insistence, the AKP didn't intervene, it stayed in the audience. So the manufacturer's pocket and region got less than $7 a pound. The loss of our manufacturer and our country was around $100 million. The value of nuts in CHP power will be rewarded for its productive labor; it will be actively, effectively marketed with FISKOBIRTY and its interconnected cooperatives. In the name of the manufacturer, it will regulate the price of nuts, but it will also create value and employment by producing goods. The Republican People's Party is the only party that defends the rights and interests of our country's local capital. Our president and our local lawmakers are bringing it up at every opportunity. Last year, we made the nut ring, we walked for nuts this year, and with our president's participation, we had a nut rally. Giresun is the capital of the nut. As Giresun MP, the nut capital, I've tried to express it in all my speeches. Dear friends, we want justice for the nuts. The AKP gets the most votes from the nut area, compared to 70 per cent.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0057par0309	Thank you, Mr. Bektasoglu.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0058par0310	The nut maker will now review this support. This party, born of the Black Sea, will sink from the Black Sea. And they'll be judged by the nut maker they've been victimizing. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0057par0313	Thank you, too. The nationalist Movement Party will now speak on the group's proposal, and finally on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Cemal Ozturk, a member of Giresun. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0059par0317	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion to investigate the problems in the nuts provided by the National Movement Party Group. I salute you all. No doubt our most valuable product in our nut agricultural production. We also receive about 20 percent of our exports alone from nuts. Today it is commercially in 15 counties of our country, but in total it is produced in about 35 provinces. In 700,000 hectares, 500,000 manufacturers are busy with nuts. At one time, we alone met 75-80 percent of the world's production of nuts, but unfortunately, in recent years, the increase in the production of nuts in other countries has decreased to 67 percent, or even 65. We don't see any stability in the production of nuts for years, because, in natural circumstances, recolletes vary every year, but the average average of the last decade is around 550,000 tons. The main axis of this year's debate is about 60% of the recolcoltent this year. Nut production of 420,000 tonnes last year was identified as 675,000 tonnes in 2017. After 2009, our government issued an intervention in 2017, and in September, the Earth's Mahuller Office began to buy nuts, which declared the price of Giresun's quality intervention at $10.5 euros and the price of lvant-quality nuts at the price of 50 euros. I congratulate the staff of the Earth crop office here, especially the General Manager, because they continue to buy nuts day and night in the nut area. Of course, our friends from the opposition say that the government of the AK PARTY -- the point that comes in the nut for Turkey -- is not supported by the nut. Dear lawmakers, in 2002 the price of nuts was 1.5 liras, with today's figure and 90 cents in dollars. I was General Manager in 2003, and we couldn't sell nuts for $1.50. But even at today's debate, I'll leave it to you to appreciate that Giresun is worth $10.5 in quality nut dollars. There are problems with nuts, of course. There have been problems in the past, there are problems in the present, and there will be nuts in the future, because nuts are a very important product, but in order to overcome these problems, our government is in a painful way...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0060par0326	I'll give you one more minute, complete it, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0059par0327	Our government continues to support our client in the nuts and will continue in the future. I think this year's debate is pure, temporary. In the coming days, we believe that these market prices will also have to rise above the price of intervention declared by the Earth's crops because in Turkey, right, it's high, but both in Italy and in Georgia, the entire market knows that there is no recoltenin expected in Georgia. Rest assured, our government has always been with them, and they will continue to be with them. Again, our field-based support -- the Board of Ministers has decided -- will be implemented this year, too. In that regard, I predict that the price of nuts will be higher than expected in the coming days, and I respectfully salute the General Assembly, saying that we are against the motion.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0060par0329	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. I'd like to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes: those who agree... those who refuse...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0061par0331	Sustained.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0062par0332	I don't think that happened.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0060par0333	The proposal was not accepted.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0062par0334	I don't think that's gonna work. This isn't a party, Mr. President. You put your weight on it, you get it admitted.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0060par0335	We now begin the discussion of the People's Democratic Party group proposal. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Thursday/10/2017 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 21 September 2017, Gaziantep MP Mr. Mahmut Toğrul and his friends offered 5432 rows, the instruction curriculum, textbooks and other materials in the same edition of the parliamentary research motion given to the Turkish Parliament in order to purge the single, sexist and showen content, was suggested to be presented before other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party group's group's proposal, Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul will speak on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0063par0349	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to respectfully greet all our citizens who are watching us on their screens and our co-Chairs, who are now being held hostage by their wills, Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ, our fellow deputies, our mayors. Dear friends, today is October 5th, the World Teacher's Day. On occasion today, he celebrates the day of our teachers, and I wish the new year of education to be full of achievements. Teaching is a profession with an enlightened identity that requires special expertise. I shall be a slave to him who taught me a letter for forty years. The word is an important promise for the Islamic faith to show its value for education, but at the point where we come today, the education policies in the 15-year period have reduced the teacher to a slave. First of all, the teaching profession has been discredited, and the teacher has been reduced to a persona that teaches absurdity. The teacher is obliged to consider any social, political, economic problems that affect his development, if necessary, and to develop solution proposals, but the AKP is imposed on teachers who are thinking, objecting, obedient instead of teachers. Today, Teacher Ayþe is being punished for saying that children should not die. The AKP is also trying to reduce teaching to a technical profession. Teachers are being discredited as a low-worker, hard vacationer, and financial and autonomy rights are being imposed. The questions of the teachers' appointments and exams during the appointment have actually revealed everything, but since July 16, 2016, there have been similar terrors on teachers and teachers, especially with the State of Emergency and the KHK. 33,000 teachers have been discharged from their duties, and Namih and Nuriya only want our jobs. About 5,500 academics... in particular, we want peace, peace in this country. The academics who say, "Let there be a thousand years of punishments." In the 15-year period of AKP's power, the esteemed MPs no doubt experienced the greatest damage of their education. The AKP's almost educational policy has failed. It's called revolutional change in curriculums, but when we look at it, we call it the new curriculum -- we're saying the new one -- there's no innovation at all. The curriculum, which already has monogamous, sexist, centrist, paramilitary content, is the result of the 1980 coup, which forces the AKP to read into its soul. The syllabus is not just a document of how a class is supposed to work. The curriculum is the constitution of the education system, so to speak. Although, look, the Constitution of Turkey, the curriculum, of course, will not be any different. The AKP is glorifying its regime under the new curriculum, trying to express its legitimacy to us again. Dear friends, in many textbooks, slavery is imposed, sexism is imposed. In particular, the head of the family is a man, and it is a woman's duty to obey a man, and it is an honor to be covered. Evolution theory is taken out of textbooks on the grounds that students are confused, whereas the AKP is the one who creates confusion. Today, the education system has been reduced to a test system. When we look at changes in the educational system, the examination system, it is easy to see what the AKP really wants to do. The AKP is pushing a new jihadist curriculum under its own worldview. Dear friends, what does the new curriculum say? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0064par0358	Please complete, Mr. Toğrul, just a minute...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0063par0359	"Chihad is a war in the way of God," he says. That's what ISIS says, and El Nusra says, and Ahrar Al-Sam says, "Fighting in the way of God is war." Dear friends, the Minister says it's the most democratic, scientific, contemporary curriculum. Mr. Secretary, what are you covering up, what are you trying to tell me? For once, this is not a new curriculum, it's quite the opposite, in fact, that we're being imposed on our students, our teachers, by the tyranny that AKP has now imposed on society. Laiklik is being completely destroyed, Ataturk is being removed and replaced by Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Actually, that's what happens in the new curriculum. Laiklik, Hakke. We're dealing with a full-on sexist, racist, figure-out show. Therefore, our proposal is supported by all party groups and education is the most fundamental pillar of a country, with a joint decision to do so... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I think we need to agree on how we're going to get through this, and I call on all groups to support it. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0065par0365	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party group, Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın will speak second on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0066par0369	Honored President of the Veteran Assembly, dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on behalf of this research motion, and I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, when we look at countries with distances in education, there's a very important factor that really attracts the most attention, which is the continuity of both curriculums and programs. So in other words, stability in education is sustained. So, as long as commitment to a program continues, we can see from time to time that radical changes are very successful when we look at countries that apply education systems, which, if necessary, very little corrections, where transformations don't exist, but we do, unfortunately, look at programs that cover a long period of education from elementary school to higher education, and it's always very clear that we're dealing with problems, chaos, and chaotic situations. So, our babies, we've all been through that process, as parents, and the problems that we face today, as parents, that start with the LGS in middle school and start with SBS, OKS and TEOG, and start with the OSS in college exams, are very clear evidence of that. So, as an educator, and as a member of the Commission, I'd like to say a few very brief things on behalf of my party: of course, we're going to discuss this very clearly, we're going to talk about it later, but, please, if we want to succeed in education, we need to pay attention to three key issues. One, we have to take an equitable attitude in education entries, so when you're offering education, you don't have to be able to provide all the opportunities for education, you don't need regionals, you don't need mass distinctions, you have to make the curriculum equal, you have to give the teacher quality equal, you have to give the school opportunities equal. These are training entries. Here, to have something to say in the future, we have to give it to everyone -- an equitable logic -- because, you know, it's a very basic right to education -- to give it to them. Second, we have to be fair and fair at the measuring point of these educational entries we offer. We have to make a general assessment without subjecting it to personal evaluations with a completely objective criteria. Third -- this is very important for Turkey -- what happens is that we as political figures, as managers -- especially the government is getting a lot of work done -- at the employment point, we need to take a firm stand at which jobs the schools will be employed in. I think if a kid's going to go to high school, he should know what college he's going to get out of, what job he's going to get into. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0067par0376	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Republican MP Mustafa Akadın will speak third on behalf of the People's Party group proposal. Here you are, Mr. Akadun. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We're not starting the clock until you're on the stand, Mr. Akadun. You're coming a long way.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0068par0381	I've already landed in three minutes, what would happen if you shortened it?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0067par0382	That's why I'm not starting it.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0068par0383	We'll talk for 30 seconds and we'll be downstairs.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0067par0384	You'll sum it up.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0069par0385	We're always recaping, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0067par0386	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0070par0387	Mr. President, highly valued lawmakers, I must first begin by celebrating this very special day of my fellow educators and by wishing our students, our teachers, well done teaching. Dear friends, education is the most important activity necessary to determine the future of a society and ensure its economic prosperity, as you all know. The national education strategy is really an endoctrination. The goal is to integrate universal values with national values and give our children a modern mind. For our country, its borders were drawn by the Ataturk revolutions, and the secular, scientific, and modern education system was one of the republic's most important statements, as well as the Constitution. The most important words of Ataturk are the knowledge of the truest performer in life, science. I don't give up dogma as an inheritance to you, my spiritual heritage is science and reason. However, for the first time in the history of the Republic, an educational program that has gone outside these principles -- I do not call it a curriculum, I call it an education program in Turkish -- is imposed. This imposition is decorated as democratic, but it's completely shaped by an ally union. It's a curriculum full of junk and dogmas or an education program. It's not a gathering of all the interests of the community. No scientist who works in the field of science in preparing an education program has any opinions, no opinions of universities, no opinions of any NGOs on education other than education-SEN, no opinions of parents. On such an important matter, Mr. Secretary says last January: "We have received the opinion of 100,000 people. Who are these 100,000 people? Are there people among 100,000 who have contributed to education? None of this is known, and a new education programme is being imposed on us last July. Dear friends, the principles of Ataturcism and Ataturk have been trivialized in the sense that the program should have its period. The most important principle of Ataturk is that secularism has been emptied. A religion full of dogmas, superstitions, moral education is imposed on our children. A very critical concept, such as jihad, is put into the curriculum, as is the condition of Islam. A sectarian religion is being put into a educational programme to promote gender discrimination. The origin of life and evolution of living things have been removed from the program. Destroying this teaching, supported by over 200,000 scientific articles around the world, at least means you can't raise enough professionals in biological science, including me, including medical doctors. My dear friends, we still have a lot to say about education, but in this little three-minute conversation, there's no point in mentioning that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you all for your patience. I offer you love and respect.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0071par0396	Thank you, Mr. Akadun. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, I'm going to have the Republican People's Party's group proposal read and process and vote. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting Thursday/10/2017 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. In an effort to investigate the destruction of some schools that have sparked a public debate by Eskişehir MP Gaye Beceler and his friends, the motion for parliament's investigation into the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 5/10/2017 was issued (393 places). lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the General Assembly's information, and to be read and held in the same date of their talks in the Thursday's 5/10/2017 unification. To explain the reason for the Republican People's Party group's proposal, the owner of the proposal will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Eskişehir MP Mr. Gaye Beceer. Here you go, Mr. Niceer. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0072par0412	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I wish the new year of legislation would be the center of peace for the Great National Assembly of Turkey, for our country, for our democracy, for our republic, for everyone living in this country, and for the whole world. Last week, the new school year began, but it began with more anxiety for about 18 million students and for their parents than hope. But as chosen ones, your children are in good hands, so keep your mind at ease, and they will have the best education with the best possible means. Can we tell these people? No. Because our educational system has become a nightmare thanks to a 15-year-old ruling party. With all due respect, yes, you all have one piece in this sin. To sum up fifteen years of training: the drafting, legislation changes, cooperation with the congregations, changing the curriculum at least twice, and the Minister of National Education, which has changed six times. I'm asking you, if this system is a system of despair in our children and concerns in our parents, then whose is it? I don't want this TEOG anymore in one night, what is this TEOG? The victims of generations whose future has been stolen will not last a day, but a lifetime, unfortunately. It doesn't matter what the names of the exams are, LGS, SBS, OKS, TEOG... these are all test systems that came up in your time of power. Dear lawmakers, no one can organize or change education in its own way without the shareholders. Look, you changed the curriculum, is it scientific? It's not. Laik? Not at all. Who gave you an opinion? It's not obvious. What mind, what method, and what reference are you doing this with? Who is your guide, please explain, and we'll all know it. You haven't been able to get the education system back on track, and with that mind, it's clear that the education system won't go any further. One night it will suddenly rise. The AKP President says, as we do 80 million citizens, the Minister of National Education hears while watching TV. We don't know what to replace it with. No one knows. Who runs this country? I'm telling you that 80 million people have bigger minds than one person's. I wonder if it's a trick to open up all kinds of imams or to target qualified education for every school. Look, Imam-students get into college one-in-five this year, what do we call it? Every year, our parents became troubled by the thought of whether their child's school or teacher would change. We said no training, and now you've made new co-operation protocols. With who? Ensarίla. With who? With TÜRGEV. With who? With TUGVA. You said once, none of us have forgotten, but every day, new reports of abuse continue to come from cults and foundation dorms. Dear lawmakers, the era of praising ignorance is no longer just a criticism, we will work together to remove all content in the educational system that is regressive, sexist, and dogmatic. Who are we working with? We'll work with the parents. Who are we working with? We'll work with the teachers. Who are we working with? We're going to work with 18 million students in this country. Who are we working with? Ayþe, we're going to work with the teachers. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, look, schools have been opened and many schools have been told on the day of the opening: "I'm sorry, your school is being shut down, it's going to collapse. Take care of yourself. I just want to say that you have no right to do this to the children of this country, this curriculum is a matter of the country. Let's all fight together for modern, secular, democratic education with the common mind. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0073par0426	Thank you, Mr. Niceer. On top of the Republican People's Party group's proposal, Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu will speak second on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0074par0430	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party. I salute you all. Yes, as my friends who were on this stand before me expressed today is October 5th, Teacher's Day. Everyone's here, they've celebrated, but we say that as long as these special days aren't filled, they can't just go beyond words, and every year when that time comes, they'll be repeated and put on the shelf. As we do today, every year we talk about how valuable our teachers are, but in terms of our services to them, let alone how much we really care about them, let alone how far we've gone, let alone how far we've gone. I'd like to share this in particular. When we say "teacher," we're really talking about the gunmen who carry the burden of national education on their shoulders, we're talking about the people of the case, because when they enter the classroom, they're not thinking about anything but education, but the light of their very precious eyes that they'll prepare for the future, other than their students. But in terms of power, we've seen that the most oppressed part in 15 years is the teachers, and the most battered system is the education system. Consistency, validity, credibility in education is very important. But we've also seen here that all inconsistencies, all impromptu practices, and some untrustworthy rules and stability again. So we're saying that if we're making a promise, it has to be done. There are 100,000 paid teachers, they're still in class, and we need to pay more attention to them now. Yes, when we look at the quality of education, unfortunately, we can see that this quality is getting lower and lower, and we can see that the system is changing. As we address this bench, we talk about what better we can do when we address this beautiful country, and how we can contribute more, and what we need to share in order to sit at the top of the world, while we are still here and still talking about how the wrongs that have been done should be corrected in this way. Hopefully, we'll say and thank you in the hope and hope to discuss them from now on.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0075par0436	Thank you, Mr. Topcu. On top of the Republican People's Party group's proposal, Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Ayhan will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0076par0440	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, I salute you all. Of course, it's October 5th, World Teacher's Day. I also celebrate World Teacher's Day on October 5th. October 5th, World Teacher's Day was announced in 1994 by the joint decision of UNESCO and ILO. In particular, the most important reason for the appointment of teachers is that teachers express an important stage for recognition of their social status. Therefore, teachers' social status, teachers' rights and freedoms are very useful and useful for the knowledge of their democratic rights. But when we look at the reality of Turkey in this situation in the world, though it is accepted today, it is still not officially accepted in Turkey as World Teacher's Day, due to international contracts. What's been done? After 12 September the fascist junta regime accepted Teacher's Day in Turkey on 24 November after 12 September, it was official. So even this is a big paradox in itself, a big contradiction in itself. I mean, it's no doubt important for teachers to say that they're great eulogies, that they're kissable people by the hands of teachers, but it's important to address the teacher's basic problems and at least accept their day officially as part of this intimacy and this approach. Of course, while all this was going on, here are the friends who have just stated that 1,128 academics were sentenced to five,6,40 years yesterday; and these are teachers. On the other hand, over 30,000 teachers have been expelled in the last year and tens of thousands of teachers have been suspended without due process. Two days before the Festival of the Sacrifice, 1,130 teachers serving here were exiled out of the province, including Diyarbakır, Şanlıurfa, Gaziantep, Mardin, Şırnak, Batman. Without any investigations, look, this is all important. So you're going to defend teachers, you're going to say that it's important for our social future, and on the other hand, you're going to do such rights to teachers, such attacks. It's definitely not acceptable. And in that sense, I am again celebrating the Day of Teachers, the Day of Teachers of all our teachers, especially our teachers, who are struggling in a human and honorable way.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit01spe0077par0446	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a 20-minute recess from the merger, and I'd like to invite the members of the group to meet. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0077par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 4th Union of the Grand National Assembly. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume our discussion of the 1st ranked Business Courts Law Bill and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The talks on the first chapter of Law Bill 491, which was considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code yesterday, were completed. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. Congressmans, in accordance with the recent amendment to the Civil Code, I'm going to read and process the motions on the clauses according to the order of the violation. I'll have them read the shortest of the same proposals and read the signatures of the other proposals and process them together. The amendment motions will now be read once, according to Article 8 of Article 87 of the Civil Code. Photocopies of proposals are distributed to groups. Congressmans, there are three motions on Article 1, I'm reading the first motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first article of the Law Bill 491 is removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Happy Behcet Yıldırım İbrahim Ayhan Does the commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0078par0019	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0077par0020	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0079par0021	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0077par0022	Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Ayhan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0080par0025	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on Article 1 of the First Amendment of Business Courts Act (1/850). I salute the General Assembly. Roman law, the patriarch of the law, says that laws that have nothing to do with one another cannot be met in one law. Today, bag law enforcement has become increasingly common, almost like the only method of law enforcement. This practice is now heading towards a point where the freedom of rights, which has been ruled out in Article 36 of the Constitution, has been limited and even eliminated. Indeed, it is increasingly difficult for the lawyers, for the practitioners, to follow the laws set out for those who want to seek their rights, to control the changes made in the law. Society has called these laws "torba" (torba). There is usually a bag or a sack of laws that have changed the subject, related to each other or a lot of unrelated laws. Despite all objections and warnings from the Commission, we think it is important to expose these policies first, as we consider the exiting of the total 40-point Business Courts Bill, which means subcontracting and privatisation of the judiciary by the Council of Arbitration and privatising it. Mr. President, the valued MPs, Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım, spoke at the opening ceremony of the 10th European Regional Meeting of the International Labour Organization (ILO), speaking at a time, speaking from a place that equitably equitable to employees, trade unions representing employees, workers and bosses, as well as the workplace, as the continuing work is responsible for the employer. How do you hold the same responsibility by equating the boss and the worker in a country where all those who use all the exploitation mechanisms to ensure the profit maximization of the boss have to sell the labor force to the boss? While poverty and wealth are constantly piling up in Turkey, the scissor between the ends is a close proof of government's love for capital as it grows day after day. Pretending to be a fellow worker, defending the rights of the worker, making laws in favor of the capital, it's turned out to be something you've mastered. As of September, ÜRK-Ş announced that the poverty limit for a family of four is $4.960, and the minimum wage in this country is $1.404, which is 3.5 times the minimum wage. So, how come a worker and a boss have the same responsibility? Labour and Social Security Minister Jüliide Sarıeroglu also attended the closing conference of the Business Health and Safety Project, where we have established statistical data on the lack of statistics related to business accidents and occupational diseases, not a small doubt and empty point in terms of the credibility of these statistics, but that there is no problem as a ministry in terms of statistics, and that we have established all the policies of Turkey's future with statistical data. We'd like to remind the minister that four months of Project Zero Accidents have been identified as at least 757 jobs killings in the name of the work accident. We also want to remind you once again that at least 67 percent of these deaths took place in constructions on the axis of the campaign. According to the data prepared by the Labour Health and Occupational Security Assembly, 161 workers were killed in the first nine months of 2017: 161 workers were killed in January, 152 in March, 151 in April, 147 in May, 170 in June, 207 in July, 217 in August and 147 workers lost their lives in September. In the first nine months of 2017, at least 1,485 workers were killed because of your fund-raiser. Now, I'm asking, is there a single boss who died in an accident? My respects, thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0081par0033	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposed amendment to the 1st Amendment to the current Law on Business Courts shall be corrected in the following way. Article 1, (1) The purpose of this Law is to organise the establishment of business courts, the mandate, and the method of trial by authority. Ömer Suha Aldan Necati Yılmaz Mehmet Gökdağ Zeynel Emre Namik Havutça Cemal Okan Yüksek Gibraltar Özdemir Kemal Zeybek Gülay Responsor Mahmoud Tanal Kazim Arslan Bulent Öz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0082par0048	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0081par0049	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0083par0050	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0081par0051	İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0084par0054	Dear President, dear lawmakers, the first amendment of the proposed bill explains the purpose of the law, but within the purpose of this law -- Mr. Secretary is able to know that he has been a lawyer for a long time -- is very comfortable with business law lessons. But no one's listening, Mr. President, I must be talking nonsense.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0085par0056	We're listening, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0086par0057	You go ahead, I'm listening.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0084par0058	The Minister needs to listen, he won't listen.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0086par0059	Please address the General Assembly, continue your conversation.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0084par0060	So, are you going to restart the timer, or is it possible?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0087par0061	You've got the Minister's ear, he's got one ear.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0084par0062	Mr. Secretary, it's about you, but, uh, I'm sorry about the conversation...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0088par0063	Mr. Tanal, please address the General Assembly, I'll make the necessary warnings. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0084par0065	Okay. Dear President, I salute you all with respect and respect. I have the book of Professor Nuri Çelik Hodja. It's about business law lessons, the course they teach in law schools. It's very comfortable, it's about the law of vocational education... it's a lot of business accidents with trainees, apprentices. This regulation of the law does not include business courts. I'm asking you, I'm asking you, both these interns and these cadets, it's best to put them in the field of business courts because of the business accidents that may have arisen. There's a lot of mayhem here, a fundamental court of law, a business court of law, and it's time to put an end to this mess. Now, Mr. Secretary, in yesterday's statements, they said, "Yes, we trust our judgment." A beautiful wish. He is also the president of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors, a natural president born of the Constitution. Now, I'd like to tell you that there is a lot of discussion on the agenda: Article 38 of our Constitution shall not be a crime without law or punishment. When did the MIT truck case, the MIT truck thing happen? On January 1, 2014, the first incident occurred; the second incident was January 19, 2014. January 1, 2014, January 19, 2014; two times this happened -- two times MIT trucks were captured -- vehicles called MIT trucks. So when did the law on the MIT trucks -- on the MIT (MIT) trucks -- on carrying weapons, having weapons, and the shipping work take place in the Turkish Grand National Assembly? April 2014. Was MIT authorized to carry arms, transport, transfer until April 2014? No. But with a warrant that doesn't exist, isn't it a crime to carry such a weapon? It's happening. Well, friend, we're looking for a judge in Turkey now, looking for a prosecutor. Isn't it a crime for the MIT to transfer between cities in this manner because of an unlawful incident in Turkey's Grand National Assembly? It's a crime. Why aren't you processing? Secondly, look, you're the president of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors. I'm going to need your permission if I have to be excused from you right now. I wanted to talk to the Attorney General of İstanbul the other day. The point of my request was that the Istanbul courthouse resembled a large shopping mall; the restaurant, the restaurant, the hairdresser, the barber, the shoe painter, whatever you're looking for, the files are crawling on the floor. I went to see the Attorney General. The Attorney General won't let us in that hallway. He won't let me in as a congressman. I mean, he's got a secretory there, so I figured I'd get to his secretary, and they didn't get to his secretary. His secretary came down the hall and said, "Let me take your note." Now, Dear Minister, a congressman wants to talk to the Attorney General about the problems of that court, we're not taken into his secretary, we're graded in the corridors. They're still gonna call me. They called and said, "Sir, can you speak to the Attorney General?" I don't want to talk to the Attorney General, I want to speak to the Attorney General. I said. I'm still waiting for a call from the Attorney General, about a quarter of a day ago. I'm asking you. The files are in the corridors at the İstanbul - Public Prosecutor's Office-Khan Courthouse. Is that a mall or a palace of justice? Our citizen wishes to use the services of justice in a manner worthy of the court of justice. It's not a mall, it's a place of justice. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0089par0073	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that "fiction, duty, authority and the declaration of the 1st article of the Law on Business Courts Number 491, which is in session, be replaced in the form of "figuration, order, and authority. " İsmail Faruk Aksu Zuhal Topcu Baki Simsek Mustafa Mit Ruhi Ersoy Desire Erdem Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0090par0085	It doesn't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0089par0086	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0091par0087	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0089par0088	Mr. Ruhi Ersoy will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0092par0091	Mr. President, on behalf of our group, I salute the General Assembly. I have taken a pledge on the 1st Amendment, from the discussions of the Employment Law and from the motions laid out in this scope. What I'm talking about is something that we're actually satisfied with, and we're somewhat lacking, and I'd like to first explain it. The creation of the consensus board for the solution to the problem between the workers and the employers will be made to help resolve the conflict between us as the National Movement Party of 2015, which will ensure the process of finding work, employers and public representatives will pass through a process of mediation, and will help resolve it before it goes to trial. It is one of the issues we have promised. But the difference between what we have received in this declaration and the current application cannot go to the judiciary that is going to this place. The desired worker should also be given the right to go to the judiciary. At this point, when the burden of the judiciary is lightened, I can go to the judiciary rather than to the consensus board, while the employee who desires to be burdened with responsibility must be given as a right. Now, the process of law to be formed, along with the modern history of law, which is known in modern law as the basis of reconciliation between state and nation, is the basic hope that our civilization, which is known as the rule of public law, tradition, tradition, tradition, and the result of the culture of living together from mankind's earthly adventure, has been produced by us as a result of the culture of living together. By moving from here, the right to the employee's sweat before it dries, is a matter of first-degree extolation of the employee's culture. This is a political rhetorical concept used by politicians in order to keep people alive so that the state can live. One of the things we have to consider as we approach these issues is that the state of the Republic of Turkey has put the basics of the Constitution into the context of its philosophy against the human exploitation of this capitalist system; the state of the Republic of Turkey is a secular, social law state. Here, the social and legal state here is an indispensable complement of one another. There is a right proportional understanding of our philosophy in the background of the Social Security Agency, perhaps not as comprehensive in any country in the world as we are. This is about the institutional mind of our government. So this institutional mind has recently been privatized in terms of speeding up service purchases, plus the social rights of employees, or the rights of social state, and at some point, the will that governs in the interest of austerity measures, with the purchase of services and subcontractorship. Here, this public subcontractorship establishment has been seen to be an extraordinary burden, but there was also the issue of subcontractors and social rights promised by the government. The process of our country's crisis moments and the focus of the country's agenda on different national security issues continues, on the one hand, as a sign of normalisation, and on the other hand, we, the National Movement Party, are following the acceleration of this subcontractorial process. This process is also an expression of the approach required by the social state, along with the good news of the subcontractors in the coming days. In this context, one of the other demands that we have received is that the internship period should be considered insured, or that the practices related to a background training period of a worker in his high school years may be able to take advantage of those rights through past borrowing. Both demands are a very human demand, a need to be a social state within the framework of the fundamental provisions of our Constitution, which constitutes the contract between our state and our nation. The more we meet the need to be a social state, the more powerful, rich, and the more healthy we think we're going to be in the relationship between our nation and its governance, which I respectfully submit to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0093par0100	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. In Article 2 there are three motions, and I read the first motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the Law Bill 491 be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Happy Behcet Yıldırım İbrahim Ayhan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0094par0111	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0093par0112	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0095par0113	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0093par0114	Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Ayhan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0096par0117	It's like that again, I keep coming back and going, but...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0093par0118	Today is your day, you always come to the stand.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0096par0119	I've got it.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0093par0120	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0096par0121	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on Article 2 of the Law on Business Courts. In Turkey, we have left the 1st year of the State of Emergency and the Turkish Cypriot regime behind us, especially 15 months or 16 months ago. Statements made by the government say that only terrorist organisations were affected by the State of Emergency and that no one else was affected. In labour rights and business murders, Turkey has become a third-world country; rights violations, suicides, living by debt, easing debt has become a chain. Let's give you a couple of examples of this situation. The hunger strikes of the training workers Nuriya Gülmen and Semih Özakça, who have started to act against public exports in Ankara, have completed their 6th month in prison conditions. On the 25th day of the Düzce Techno Maccaferri strike, the government personally broke the strike. As a result of the police intervention, workers from the United States METAL-İSK were taken into custody and the goods were removed from the factory. The worker who lost his hand to the work machine was kept in the emergency room at Pamukkale University Hospital for an hour because he had no ID in the State of Emergency. The teacher of social sciences, Jesus Erdogan, who lost hope of life because he was not appointed, died of suicide. Construction workers who were not able to receive their wages went up to the roof. He went into a crisis of freedom -- I don't remember his name -- three months of unpaid Hunters' laborers -- and he tried to commit suicide when he didn't pay the rent after the executions. Of course, that's not the end of what you've done with Turkey. If we try to sort out the right violations here, maybe we'll have to lock down the General Assembly for days. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let's move on with the economy's progress. Your report card is so bad, the spear doesn't fit in the sack anymore. TIC has released its inflation data. According to this, even official inflation has re-existed to double digits - 10.68 per cent. With Kira, food, road, education, health care included, we've become a depressed society that lives in debt spirals, has given up hope of the future. And yet, the law and regulations that prioritize capital with the bag of laws, protect the bosses, are always on the agenda of the House. A concrete example is that with the change of regulations on August 19th, the ban on working for workers who run tourism, private security and health care has been lifted for more than seven and a half hours a night. If he asks for more employment approval from the employer, he has been given the opportunity to receive more work at the time of the contract of employment, if he wishes, as soon as the need for more work is born. According to the amendment to the regulation, the worker will be able to retrieve his approval for overwork by giving a written notification to the employer a month earlier. Yeah, well, you'd have to ask me now. In a country where unemployment is so common, which worker in which case I withdraw my overwork notification to his boss." who might say? We all know that the worker will be put right outside the door. But we're one of the best economies in the world. We're fine, but the numbers never show it. Turkey owes $136.3 billion to the EU, which is close to a third of the total debt. How much is the external debt? It happened at $432,352 billion. Let's give you some details. In the last six months, 30 billion dollars have been raised by one third of the foreign debt from the public. After February 2017, the hot money entry was more of a loan. The interest of public papers is so tempting that it is also the work of the interest lobby to ask the Prime Minister. Not finished, but another example: $70 per cent of the $432 billion external debt belongs to the private sector. So, what this means is that a quarter of debt reaching 52 per cent of national income is short-term. I say it's up to your discretion to see what happens with a little movement of the dollar, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0097par0127	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposed amendment to Article 2 of the Law on Business Courts be corrected in the following way. MADDE 2 ▪ The employment courts (1) are established in favour of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors, where it is required by the Ministry of Justice as a single judge and as a primary court. The judiciary of these courts is determined according to the provisions of the Courts of Courts of Courts of Justice No. 26/9/2004. (2) There can be more than one office in business courts where the job situation is necessary. These circles are numbered. In order to ensure residency, the intensity and quality of the work comings can be determined by the Board of Judges and Prosecutors, taking into account the work distribution between the apartments. These decisions are published in the Official Gazette. The apartments have to handle cases that have been filed. (3) In places that have not been established as a business court, the case and the work of this court are considered according to the rules and basis of this law, according to the original court of law in that place. Ömer Suha Aldan Necati Yılmaz Mehmet Gökdağ Zeynel Emre Namik Havutça Sibel Özdemir Gülay Responsor Kemal Zeybek Mahmut Tanal Does the commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0098par0144	We'd rather not, sir.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0097par0145	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0099par0146	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0097par0147	Mr. Kazim lion will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0100par0150	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with love and respect. We're negotiating the Bill of Business Courts, rank 491. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party regarding the amendment motion we requested to be made under Article 2. Our motion is to make a change to the establishment of business courts. It has a very important role in maintaining the public order of business courts, in promoting both dialogue and peace, as well as in resolving the injustices committed in this direction. So it would, of course, be of great benefit to create a business court structure where public order can be achieved in the best possible way and the conflicts between these two sections can quickly, quickly be resolved. If a case is being filed, days, months, years of trial, cases cannot be seen quickly, rights can't be taken on time, rights can't be established in these areas, judges can't be appointed in time, and the physical conditions here can't be met, personnel can't be supported, of course that judgment will be slow. For one thing, we have to get our judgment out of this area, out of this structure. It would be of great benefit to carry out the state's basic duty of justice, to carry out its mission through the channel of business courts, rather than by transferring it to mediation. Of course, when the courts do their duty, they have to be independent, they have to make an impartial decision. If there is a judicial structure in the fullty of the Ministry, the initiative of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors, and the initiative of politics, it is not possible that justice will actually be carried out within that judiciary. For him, it would be of great benefit to work primarily at the point of neutrality and independence of the judiciary and to quickly return from the error of this Constitutional amendment. My dear friends, the structure of our judgment has also come to a point where we, as a lawyer, as an employer, are actually witnessing that no employer is going to the courthouse today to seek rights and try to resolve many conflicts amongst themselves and even give up what they're owed. Now, if you don't bring the judgment to a working point, if you don't get your staff in this form, you're really in the way of justice and justice. My dear friends, this requires a great deal of expertise in the judiciary. If you can't evaluate the judges who will work in business courts as a legal judge in the same field from the beginning to the end, if you can't evaluate them as a business court judge, you can't get the results you really expect in business courts. Therefore, you will not be able to get a verdict from the court of law to the criminal court, from the criminal court to the court of justice to the court of justice, Mr. Minister, and certainly not from the judges' board and the prosecutors' board to the two separate boards and the prosecutors to the criminal courts, and I would like to say that you can continue the trial in a faster, better way, by making judges in criminal courts as prosecutors. Because the basis of these injustices is really slow functioning of the judiciary, there is a lack of real justice in the judiciary, there is an addiction in the judiciary, there are decisions made according to the signs given in the judiciary, there is interference in the judiciary, there is absolute political power that you should give up on that. So I thank you, all of you, with all due respect, thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0101par0158	Thank you, Mr. lion. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the Law on Business Courts No. 491 be changed as follows. İsmail Faruk Aksu Zuhal Topcu Baki Simsek These apartments are numbered if more than one agency of business courts is formed where the job situation requires them. The distribution of work between apartments is determined by the Judges and Prosecutors' Council, provided the extent and quality of the work is taken into account, which ensures the establishment of residency. The board's decisions in this direction are published in the Official Gazette. Circumstances have to look at cases that have been filed. Does the commission participate in the reading motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0102par0169	The commission disagrees, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0101par0170	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0103par0171	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0101par0172	Mr. Baki Simsek will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0104par0175	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken the oath on Article 2 of the Law on Business Courts Number 491 on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group, and I salute your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, we support the establishment of the arbitration commission in conflict between the employer and the worker on Article 2 of the law on business courts. But while the intermediary commission is being established, we oppose the extension of people's process to go to court as the National Movement Party. If people don't want to go to the mediation establishment, they should be able to appeal directly to the court, there shouldn't be a waste of time here. Late justice will never be justice. I'd like to give you an example of prisoners and military students from here, Mr. Secretary. A middle school graduate from Mersin Çamlıya and Sarıkavak village as Erkan Ünal, a young man whose parents live in the village -- he also lives in the village -- goes to Istanbul to the army, and the coup takes place when he is a soldier of 20 days. This young man is currently in prison in Istanbul for 14 months and 15 days, even though he is not involved in any incidents. I'm afraid we're getting a lot of complaints from our area. We demand that the court process regarding the arrested men and military students be expedited immediately and release those who are not guilty. The subcontractor's law... people's agendas are different, of course, with our agendas, people's agendas. Both the June 7th elections and the November 1st elections were promised. There's a lot of us every day... because the largest subcontractor is government, municipalities, hospitals, forest agencies and national education. Unfortunately, the citizen's expectations for this law continue. Again, citizens' expectations about hiring workers -- national education, municipalities, and forest businesses -- are that the purchases can be made transparently. We'd like to put this into institutional status and request that all of these purchases be made in the presence of notarys. And as Minister of Justice, we believe that you have the greatest responsibility here, the responsibility to be fair. Because there are a lot of complaints about it. When we look directly for the director of the institution, the answer is: "The list is coming to us from the mayor's office, and we can't move outside of that. " There probably isn't one member of parliament in this room who can say otherwise. We want the government to be fair about this and to be transparent in the purchases of all institutions in Turkey. The minimum wage, unfortunately, remains at £1,400 during the 15-year AKP ruling period. The minimum wage has a very low standard of living, which needs to be upgraded. In the elections, our government has posted billboards about giving homes for $100 and $250 to the minimum wage and below the income standard, and has made promises in the polls. Our minimum wage workers are waiting to see when the $100 dwellings will be given. We expect the government to make it happen as soon as possible. There have been a lot of amendments to business security, a lot of decisions have been made, but unfortunately, business security is being taken on paper right now, no actual business security. Turkey, unfortunately, is at the top of the world in Europe in business accidents. After not raising awareness of society, after not training the working worker, there is no way that any of the work safety measures taken on paper alone to comply with the legislation will come to fruition. In Turkey, labour deaths will continue to break the world record in Europe. We need to find a radical solution to this. Building-study companies have been established. Construction firms maybe have guys who don't know iron, cement, they just sign. The construction of the most business accidents, unfortunately, is not the right way to go. And I expect our government to take the necessary measures. I salute your high council with these thoughts and feelings.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0105par0185	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are four motions in the third article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 of the Law Bill 491 be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Happy Behcet Yıldırım Sibel Yiğitalp Does the Commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0106par0196	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0105par0197	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0107par0198	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0105par0199	On the motion, Diyarbakır MP Siegel Yiğitalp will speak. Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0108par0202	Mr. President, I've made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the third amendment of the bill. With this clause, it is mandatory to apply for a mediation institution that can be seen as the heart of the bill. First, the mediation system must be based on volunteering. Both sides should know that they have equal rights and resources in the process. It is clear, however, that the worker and the employer are not equal in any way. The basic principle of business law is the protection of the worker and interpretation in favour of the worker. However, with this arrangement, workers are expected to be prevented through the intermediaries they will receive. Therefore, the necessity of the mediation system means the legalization of labor exploitation. This system, in this sense, is nothing more than pleasing the worker to malaria by showing death. With this clause of the bill, there is a blow to workers' rights-seeking freedoms guaranteed in the Constitution. That is why employers' unions fully support the bill. But labor unions have also expressed their opposition to the bill in their declarations and statements, and have made it clear that the bill is an arrangement against the worker. In addition, it violates the constitution and the spirit of the ILO. Unions are trying to be dysfunctional, destroying the principle of protecting workers, the basic philosophy of business law. Mr. President, it also makes sense that amongst the species of conflict, there is only the necessity of finding a compromise in business discrepancies. It is possible to exceed three weeks with objections and similar methods to the authority of the mediation office, which was held in the 9th article. The bill also eliminates the right to appeal in many cases and narrows down workers' constitutional rights search. According to Article (10), there is no way to go to peace among the parties in less than three or four weeks. A worker who can get what he deserves in a business court will be reminded of a trial process that will last for years by the mediator and will be advised to drop the case. So far, practices show that the worker has been persuaded to do much less than he deserves. In particular, small settlements, such as rural towns, and large companies, it should be foreseen that the mediator will be under employer's pressure. The worker is threatened by both social pressure and the cumbersome judicial system. The bill for the cumbersomeness of the judgment is paid to the worker, to the worker. Again, the 12th joke of matter is direct intervention in the freedom of rights. When we think of this joke with (1)th joke and other jokes, there is an intervention in will, not on the basis of irradiation, but on the condition of a mandatory case. In the 15th joke, the request for a return to the job has been made clear to the negotiator, whether they will receive labour and what the situation will be for compensation. In all the jokes of Article 3 of Article 3, there is also a violation of the discretionary authority of the judge, which is valid in business law. A field of concrete documents and information, which is completely legal, has been transformed into a negotiation process that poses risks against the worker. This could lead to some really risky situations in the future. And finally, I want to say that we are against this bill because of all of this. I salute you all. From here, my Co-Chairs, Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ, my fellow MPs, my mayors of the city, my lower-level mayors, all the political prisoners in prison, I offer respect and love.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0109par0214	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The amendment of Article 3 of Business Courts Act 491, which is currently in session, in the following way, to the following way of Article (1), (2), and (15) of Article III; "The three weeks of the same article (10) in the article (10) and "the maximum of its terms" can be replaced in the form of "four weeks" and "the two". İsmail Faruk Aksu Zuhal Topcu Baki Simsek Mehmet Parsak Mustafa Mit of Deniz Depboy In cases brought against him on demand of employees or employers based on law and collective contract of employment, the case is conditional. The court is obliged to investigate if the parties have applied to the mediator and if they have applied for it. As a result of the court's investigation into the conditions under which mediation is mandatory, the court will decide to dismiss the case due to the lack of conditions for the case. If the negotiator is obliged to submit the interview report to all relevant parties and is not subject to repentance, it does not mean lack of a case. When the original employer-alt employer relationship exists, they are asked for extradition, labour and compensation, and to negotiate, at least one of the employers must participate in mediation talks in order for the agreement to be reached.' Does the Commission agree to the motion read?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0110par0226	The philosophy of the bill, the logic of the mediation, and the basis of the Commission report.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0109par0227	Thank you, Mr. Commission. Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0111par0229	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0109par0230	Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Parsak will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Parsak.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0112par0233	St. Turkic nation, respected lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute you all. I have made a commitment on behalf of the National Party for Action on Article 3 of the Law on Business Courts Number 491. Article 3 of the Article 3 of the Constitution shall be the case of the mediation that constitutes the essence of this bill. Intermediation is necessary to ease the burden of the judiciary and quickly ensure that the discrepancies are dealt with. At the same time, however, we are considering that the fact that mediation has become a condition of trial may bring some negative consequences, especially against the worker. And with our motion, we predict that the law will be resolved and more practical. Honorable lawmakers form cases stemming from collective business contracts, which are organised by trade unions and also referred to as "serial cases," which have increased the burden of business courts in the implementation. The motion requires that a worker who is not working with a collective contract of employment and is not working with a collective contract of extradition be prevented by cases stemming from the (1)th joke from individual contract of employment. Again, according to the bill, the negotiator's fee for more than two hours of negotiations will be paid equally by the parties. If the parties disagree and prevent them from paying the fee, the obligation of the mediator to submit the report to the parties has not been arranged. The Law on Arbitration 6325 does not have any provisions either. It is the obligation of the 17th Amendment to send an example of the last report to the General Directorate of Legal Affairs within a month of the end of the intermediary operation. Therefore, the right to prosecute is extremely difficult, since there is no way that the worker can submit the final report to the petition or, if not, provide it within a week's time given by the court. (2) Under the amendment motion on the third joke, possible rights losses are expected to be prevented by the court's provision to investigate whether the parties have applied to the finder or not under the obligation to add a discrepancy report to the case petition. In Article 21 of Law 6325, if he fails to fulfill his obligations, the mediator has been ordered to be removed from his media record. The possibility that the mediator will not be able to resolve the discrepancy given to him during the 10th joke is high. The joke therefore envisions minimizing the period from three weeks to four weeks and the number of mediators that could be removed from the record, with the deadline not concluded by the mandatory negotiator for another two weeks. On the other hand, as the Law on Law on Law has been established, it is necessary for lawyers to remove the second sentence of the 12th joke from the draft text, not lose the right to defend themselves, and for lawyers to be rewarded for their efforts. The 15th joke, however, has only arranged the application for the mediation with a request for a return to the job, not specifying the situation for employment and compensation. It is necessary for workers to avoid the loss of rights. In the case of the actual employer-alt employer relationship, it would be appropriate to change the arrangement for employers to participate in mediation talks to make it necessary for at least one employer to participate in the talks so that the agreement can be met. Finally, with our proposal for the (18) joke, any employee authorized by the employer will be able to represent the employer in the talks, allowing media talks to remain confidential and prevent loss of rights to the worker. On these grounds, we request the acceptance of our amendment motion from the Honorable General Assembly. And so, after we have completed our words on our proposal, I say that we have come from the land of the martyrs of Afyonkarahisar, and that after our martyrship in Sinanpaşa, which we buried on Saturday, we have laid another one of our martyrs from Bolvadin. Once again, I ask the Lord God for mercy on our martyrs. As veterans of the same attack, I ask the veterans who are now fighting for survival to be healed once again. Once again, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0113par0249	Thank you. We pray for God's mercy on our martyr. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the following amendment of Article 3 (18) of the current Business Courts Charter 491. Bornt Turan Mehmet Doğan Kubat Aziz Babushcu Lütfiye Selva Pine Gökcen Özdoğan Enç Azmi Akinci /18) Participants can participate in mediation talks through their own legal representatives or lawyers. The employer's employee, authorized by the written document, can also represent the employer and sign the final report during the talks. Does the Commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0114par0263	My compliments to the High General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0113par0264	Thank you. Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0115par0266	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0116par0267	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0113par0268	I'm reading the reason: The employer's employee, authorized with a written document, can sign the final report as a result of mediation talks, which is clearly intended to prevent hesitations in this matter. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article (1) of Article 3 of the Law on Business Courts, which has been discussed, we propose that the following declarations be taken out and replaced by the older parties. (MADDE 3- (1) is the elder of the parties to appeal to the mediator in cases filed against him on the basis of the Law, individual or collective contract of employment, and on the basis of compensation and extradition to the job. Uğur Bayraktutan Necati Yılmaz Mehmet Gökdağ Zeynel Emre Namik Havutça Mahmut Tanal Bulent Öz Kemal Zeybek Gülay Responsor Does the Commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0117par0285	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0113par0286	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0118par0287	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0113par0288	Artvin MP Ugur Bayraktut will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0119par0291	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 3rd Amendment of Business Courts Bill 491. I salute your high council. Here, as it is known in the current system, employees and employers due to the individual and collective contract of employment are not obliged to seek a mediator in layoff cases, except in compensations due to their laws. According to us, the main breaking point of the bill brought in is Article 3, Mr. President. Why Article 3? Because there's a new system being brought in here. In the previous system, the subject of the plaintiff's appreciation for whether or not to go to an elder negotiator is being eliminated and says: "You must go to the mediator, if you do not go to the mediator, it is a condition of a case, the case will be dismissed. There is no way to accept it. Why can't you accept it? First, what's the negotiator? The mediator is not really an arbitrator, nor is the mediator a judge, nor is it a decision-making body. So what can the mediator do, since there is no way for the mediator to decide like an arbitrator, as a judge? The mediator can only help the parties to come together to decide, not a decision-making body. Therefore, a decision is not in question. So we think it's against the essence of the law, the essence of the bill, to make it a condition of a case, my dear friends. In fact, when we see the burden of work, my dear friends, we want to make it clear that, although it may seem good to settle this with a mediator without taking it to court, that the parties can deal with it without going to trial. What we're going to say is that intermediary -- as I've just said -- is a decision beyond the judge's decision. The point of the negotiator is that when the previous bill passes through this Parliament, you can't go to the mediator on everything, you can only go to the mediator on private legal matters. Now, in this bill, yes, you might think that this change in the Work Law might actually be considered a private legal relationship. A few moments ago, valuable lawmakers have expressed, my dear friends, that they will receive from a collective contract of employment, that they will receive from an employer, that they will receive from a private legal relationship, we must look at this from another page. In the same sense, there's a public law, there's a social law, so there's a collective law, it's not right to look at it in a private legal framework. So we just don't think it's right to take a position that's categorically defined in a private legal relationship and attach it to a case like this, we don't accept it, we want to express it. This must be an alternative solution. So before the citizen sues, yes, he can think, he says: I can follow this case this way. But making it mandatory is not acceptable. There's another incident. Look, I just told you, he's not a finder, he's not a judge. I said he's not a finder. I said he's not a judge. But if you force these people, sides, to this condition of a case, there's an incident called the equality of guns, which is not economically strong, which in a sense is concerned about the future, you're putting the worker in front of a lion, you're saying: "Come, sit down, negotiate here, and don't go to court. How healthy a decision can come from here? What's that got to do with anything, fellas? Since the weapons have no equal, the employer and the worker can't get in front of the negotiator under the same equal conditions, he can't discuss his future in front of the negotiator... Imagine, if a worker worked for the public for 30 years or worked for an employer in a private legal relationship, you tell him: "Be sure and certainly go to the mediator before you go to trial. It is not possible to accept this, my dear friends, so it is not practical. You could have said, "Yes, this is an alternative. You didn't have to make a legal arrangement about it, and I don't understand why you put it here, and I don't understand why you need such a necessity. The goal in the spirit of the law is to maintain the law of the worker. Are we able to maintain the employee's law through this arrangement here? I've also looked at the reason for this, and I've looked at the reasons for the bill, and there are certain reasons for it, but the concrete grounds are really relevant to the worker's future, and there's nothing in Article 3 about the employee's safety, my dear friends. In fact, the third article, as I've just said, is basically the breaking point, the actual breaking point, but it's being enforced with what's being asked to be brought, and the laborer is also being loaded. I hope you'll accept this amendment with your votes on this matter, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0120par0300	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. In accordance with the motions previously passed, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 4 that I make to read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of the Law on Business Courts be removed from the bill and that other articles be identified accordingly. Necati Yılmaz Mehmet Gökdağ Zeynel Emre Namik Havutça Gülay Reservist Sibel Özdemir Bulent Öz Kemal Zeybek Mahmut Tanal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0121par0315	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0120par0316	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0122par0317	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0120par0318	Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0123par0321	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before I discuss the relevant matter, I'd like to talk about tobacco in the almost vital bag law for two things that concern both my constituency and our brotherly province, Adıyaman. Dear friends, tobacco is vital in certain areas of Adıyaman and Malatya. The poor tobacco manufacturer is trying to make a living by planting on his own land, which he has built with his own hands, on his terrace. About 150,000 people in Adıyaman and Malatia provide for their livelihood from tobacco planting. If this change is accepted, these manufacturers will be called hungry and die. Nothing grows in this area except tobacco planting. The average tobacco-planted land is one or two acres. Especially in the mountains of Adıyaman, in the region of Çelikhan, in the central villages, unfortunately there is no land, so the farmer sows nothing but tobacco, and has been making his living for years. With this change, the poor manufacturer is being destroyed in Turkey, protecting the interests of international companies. We are clearly saying that this change is made by the demand of large companies, which is made by the demand of large cigarette monopoly. He made and prepared this proposal in front of the government by the great cigarette manufacturers, the great monopoly. The government has brought a bag of legislation to the House. I promised the people of this land that I would not add tobacco to Uncle Abuzer in Adıyaman, Uncle Ali in Malatya. Who's going to produce it? Great tobacco factories in America, England, big cigarette factories. Dear friends, don't think that tobacco manufacturers are rich in Adıyaman, Malatya, don't think that they're riding Mercedes, they're sitting on yachts. They're just making a living, and they're just making a living for their kids. If the amendment becomes legal, Adıyaman will literally become a prison. Those who sell tobacco, sell it, keep it, or transport it will be sentenced to three to six years in prison, and those who sell it will be fined from $5,000 to $50,000. Dear friends, it is clear that, as you all know, don't produce it, it will produce international producers that I have promised. Now, the poor tobacco producer in Malatya, Adıyaman, has no support from anyone, so he doesn't look after his child, but produces tobacco by looking at tobacco, and only his own family's alimony. Tobacco is dowry money for the bride in Adıyaman; for the student it is a pen, a book, and a book; it is food money for the young man who lives there. Unfortunately, those opportunities are being taken from the manufacturer. Dear friends, during the end of the Ottoman period, during the collapse, one of the most important institutions was the Reji Administration. When the Ottomans sank into debt, at the end of the 1800s, tobacco planting, sale and trade were given to the foreign-dominated Reji Administration. The registrar's forces at the Regime Administration were the producers' nightmare. Many folk songs include the atrocities of the Rangers. Dear friends, after many years, a regime will be established again, and producers planting in Turkey will be condemned to foreign hands. We must not let this law pass, dear friends. Look, in the past, TEKEL, unfortunately despite all the warnings, was withdrawn, sold to the manufacturer of Turkey for $3 billion a few years later. In Turkey, unfortunately, only a few districts now provide for tobacco -- the main livelihood of many regions in recent years -- and if this law passes now, Adıyamanlı, Malatian, and Doğanşehir will be condemned to hunger. Once again, we say: "You be with Uncle Abuzer in Adıyaman, not Johny, who is in America. Don't take away his hard-working tobacco with that sweat. You don't give anything to the manufacturer anyway, and don't take his tobacco away from him because that tobacco is worth more to him than his child. I ask you as a friend to Adıyaman, a brother MP, and as a Malatian MP, to renegotiate this law and withdraw it, I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0124par0335	Thank you, Mr. Agha. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of the Article 4 of the Law on Business Courts No. 491 shall be changed in the resolution of irregularities. İsmail Faruk Aksu Zuhal Topcu Baki Simsek Mustafa Mit Lust Erdem of the Sea Depboy Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0125par0345	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0124par0346	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0126par0347	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0124par0348	İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0127par0351	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party for Action on Article 4 of the Law on Business Courts. I salute the General Assembly and the beloved Turkish nation, our entire nation watching us on screen. Dear MPs, four of our soldiers were killed yesterday following the explosion of improvised explosives planted by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) terrorists during the passage of the military vehicle in the district of Esendere, Hakkari Province, Turkey. In the past week's terrorist incidents, 14 of our soldiers have been martyred. Recently, our country faces domestic and external problems, continuing to fight PKK and other terrorist organisations. Unfortunately, the developments that threaten our national existence and our territorial integrity are following. I wish God's mercy to all of our martyrs who have lost their lives in this holy land for the love of our country and nation, patience to their grieving families, healing to our veterans, and a long life. I'm sorry for the loss of our great Turkish nation. A week ago, I was in Bingley, and I was in close contact with our rangers as a result of my visits to Bingol. As a result of our leader's deployment and instructions, we have determined that our government, especially in our work on martyrs, martyrs, veterans, and rangers, should show greater sensitivity to this issue. In the work we've done in the area, I've seen the rangers, especially under very difficult circumstances, shielding their naked bodies against terrorists, so to speak. In very difficult circumstances, I've seen them spend all night with only one embezzlement tea. I've seen how unhealthy their towers are again. I would like to address the ruling party and state officials in particular: there are so many volunteers in each of our provinces, including Bingol, who are willing to testify for their country, their nation, that the arrangements must be made, the rights to be given, and the necessary conditions must be made. It is a nationalist village in the village of Elmalı, in the central village of Bingöl, where about 90-95 per cent of it is always nationalist. It's a village that is trying to maintain its presence, under the attack of the PKK, by posting pictures of our martyrs who have received witness to the entrance. I visited their school, and the school was ruined. Women, mothers, fathers can't send their children to school. Especially in winter, when it's cold, there's trouble because those kids can't go to school. A school in a village where the PKK has dominated more heavily is the opposite, fully equipped, with a huge question mark. I'd like to call from here: that ruined school in the village of Apples needs to be built, and the clinic needs to be nursed. Turkey has also faced attempts to seize historical Turkishmen, especially Kerkuk, by force. I'd like to point out that there is no way that our Turkish family members, especially our country, will be allowed to exist. As our leader, Mr. State Gardener, says, at the very first, he's ready to fight against 5,000 ecclesiastical Turks, and I'd like to say this from the stand. Dear lawmakers, the bill in question makes changes in many matters. Despite the title of the bill, we are still facing a bag of legislation. We've talked about the problems of the bag laws over and over again. We all know that the hasty decision to make on this matter leads to pain later, and the removal of these pains comes with a change. In fact, they bring fatigue and burden to the legislature of the Turkish Grand National Assembly as well as useful arrangements for our nation -- which have been introduced -- and then they bring difficulties. For him, assessments of every arrangement must be made in a healthy manner in commissions, consultations after it is done, and permanent laws as a result of consultation. And I'd like to stress that in particular from here. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved Turkish nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit02spe0128par0362	Thank you, Your Grace. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0128par0001	I open the Third Session of Turkey's 4th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of Bill 491. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. We stayed in the motion on the 4th article. I'm reading the final motion on matter: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It has been changed to Article 4 of the Law Bill 491, which is currently in session. Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0129par0014	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0128par0015	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0130par0016	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0128par0017	Adıyaman MP Behçet Yıldırım will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0131par0019	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on Article 4 of the Law on Business Courts Number 491. I salute my dear people, who are watching us at the beginning of the General Assembly and their screens, and my fellow co-chairs and fellow lawmakers, who are being held in prison unfairly, unlawfully. You know, guys, I made a statement here on Tuesday about tobacco, and on Monday, Adıyaman was really shaken up, and he took a walk, and he felt something about the government, whether it was a walk or social media solidarity, but right now there's dirty information going around on social media, and the bag was taken out of the law, no, sir. There's not going to be a law. There's false information like that. If there's any change, let a government official come out of here and say it clearly, or I ask the people of Adıyaman to extend your solidarity, and hold your ground until this law is withdrawn, until this law is out of the bag, and I support you, and all Turkish workers are with you. I'm sending you greetings from here. After two and a half months of vacation, we've come to the new year of legislation. As HDP, we were always among our people during this two and a half month vacation from Van to Edirne. We've been working our rounds of justice and conscience, meeting with the public this summer. The question the public asked us the most was when our Co-Chairs, Selahattin Demirtaş, Figen Yüksekdağ, our MPs, our mayors, will be released. It's not that hard to answer that question. If there was a fair trial in Turkey, they wouldn't be arrested, they'd already be among us today. Although arrest is wrong, power has officially struck its third largest party of Parliament, which he considers his greatest rival. On November 4th, he arrested our friends with a political coup, or rather he took them hostage, in our eyes and in the public eyes, that's how they are, political hostages, that's how the world knows it, and I'm sure there are those of you who feel that way. They haven't even been tried properly in over a year. Our Minister of Justice was here, and I can't see him now, and I asked him yesterday, and I repeat my question today: do you think our judgment is neutral and independent? You know as well as anyone that justice is entirely up to the court, justice, justice in quotes is stuck between one person's two lips. I don't think you're very happy about this, but I'm afraid it's the truth. Now, friends, about this business court issue... this bill is part of the government's decision to give up law, justice and freedom for the past two years... and to run the state in full security policies. The logic of this bill is to ease the workload of the courts, the judiciary, to provide the quickest solution, before it goes to trial. So, is the substructure of a faster, more serial trial to be able to nix the workers, the workers' rights demands? Isn't there another way? If you really took the money, the time, the shift, to justice, the law, you wouldn't need the worker to bring in a bill on the loss of the worker's rights. For these past few years, consider your security expenses, not with it, but with the rights of thousands, millions of workers, you could have dealt with them in a series of courts as soon as possible. Instead of hiring so many security personnel, the judge would employ the prosecutor, relieve the workload of the courts, and not sacrifice the worker. We're talking about the most sacred of men, the hard work, the hard work, the hard work. The worker came to the court, unable to get what he was going to get, to get what he was going to do, and you showed him an address at the courthouse door again, forcing the employee to settle in favor of the employer. That's the essence of this bill, that's the logic. As a result, do not force the workers to choose between quickly solving a problem concerning rights demands and solving it fairly. That would be forced to go into a situation where the worker would waive his rights. I'm saying that the reason for so many files and so many pending justices is not because of the poor worker, but because of the employer, and then the state that doesn't control this system, the social state that doesn't. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0132par0030	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 5 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposed amendment to Article 5 of the current Employment Courts Bill be corrected in the following way. MADDE 5- (1) work courts; A) Law-bound journalists who are subject to Law number 5953, sailors who are subject to Law 854, employees who are subject to Law 22/5/2003, the Law of Business, and any violations of the law due to contract or employer's or law due to their relationship with employees and employees and employees who have worked at the workplace and who are subject to service contracts held in Section 6 of Turkish Debts Law No. 11/1/2011 and under the 6th Section of the Second Section of the Law of Turkish Debts No. 6098. B) Controversies stemming from business and social security legislation, which is part of the Social Security Agency or Turkey's Employment Institution, excluding objections to administrative fines and the interim Article 4 of the Law 5510. C) In other laws, it deals with disputes, related cases, and jobs that are said to be in office of business courts. Necati Yılmaz Mehmet Gökdağ Namik Havutça Zeynel Emre Kemal Zeybek Mahmut Tanal Gülay Responsor Kazim Asslan Bulent Öz Mr. Sky, do you have a commitment request?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0133par0047	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0132par0048	Here, just a minute.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0133par0051	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, on October 6, 1990, one of the first women teachers of our country's seminary, one of the professors, was killed in an attack by a Marine Triok bomb. Marine Threeok, whose life has been dedicated to accurate knowledge but also to the right teaching of Islam, has also been the pioneer of enlightenment in Turkey. Especially with his books, his lessons, and the beautiful aspects of our religion of Islam, and his writings, he became an unprecedented Islamic history researcher. On October 6, 1990, I'd like to express my respect for the low-killed Marine Threeok. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0134par0056	And we, Mr. Hodja, honor and love as the Court of the Marine Threeok. Does the Commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0135par0061	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0134par0062	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0136par0063	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0134par0064	Mr. Haluk Pekşen will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Pekshen.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0137par0067	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, Parliament makes the law, but sometimes there are laws outside of Parliament's laws. What matters is what the laws that come out are intended to provide. As long as you can't get justice out of the law, those laws only bind the printer. The fact that the law binds the printer does not make any legal sense. There's no point in making a law in a country where there's no legal security, no legal security. If there's a sense of justice in your conscience that you can place the law there, then it will mean something; otherwise we're making law here now, but the AKP President says we've already declared the State of Emergency so that workers don't go on strike and you can work. So there's no reason for the rights of workers to come to Parliament today. Now that the State of Emergency is in progress, if the worker tries to seek rights, he'll have to do so under the State of Emergency law. The worker will pay his dues to Marko Pasha. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important facts to consider is this: clear, clear: Turkey's primary problem is the state of law issue. As long as you're not a legal state, this country struggles with corruption. Now, I would like to make a suggestion from here to the great Parliament. You're complaining about corruption, aren't you? You said you were complaining, you were in power, but then you forgot that claim. If you're still really complaining about these corruptions, if you want this Parliament, this country, to do what it needs to do, I have a suggestion for you. Let's set up a president of the anti-corruption leadership. And wherever there is in this land, and there is none that can take away the rights of an orphan, let there be a corrupt person, and let there be a corrupt man who intervenes against the rights of an orphan in this land. Come on, let's set this up, we'll set up an anti-corruption presidency, but we'll see that you're not sincere about this. And in the coming days, we'll bring it to Parliament as a bill. Another suggestion is, we're setting up a civil suit on workers' rights, workers' rights, which is fine. So, to protect the rights of these workers, their law, why don't we set up a trial for corruption, which is the primary problem of this country? Let us set up a speciality court, and let this worker be judged and judged by those who have earned the rights of the peasants, the poor, the taxpayers of this country, and those who have earned the rights of the decent people of this country. Did he embezzle money, forge official documents, falsify tenders, corrupt workers, employ workers in subcontractor status, then shut down the company, set up companies with fake documents? Let's set up a anti-corruption court to judge them quickly. If you really have a sincere intention, let us bring all our proposals to the agenda of Parliament, and you come and call them yes. But I believe you will not stand for any of this. Why? If you'd stopped... Even though we told you that the company who signed up for the subway tender with the fake document was not qualified, you didn't hear it from here. It has been a year; a company has entered into a tender with fake documents, insufficient documents; it has received a huge tender, and it has actually received prices at a price of about 40 per cent of normal, track prices, but you have not made a sound. What more can the Court do at the third airport? I thank the court's experts, but what can they really do that's more than that? They've put up some documented, calculated books. The Court reports say: "There is corruption in the third airport that exceeds billions of dollars. Let us set up a commission that will go ahead with these corruptions. Let us form a court to judge them, and we say that there should be a merit court on this matter, and you ignore it. You don't hear corruption, but you make interesting ideas to collect taxes from citizens. Look, you know what you're saying: we want this MTV, this motorized car tax, to increase the cost of defense, so why did you transfer the $3 billion in the Defense Industry Fund to the asset fund? Why didn't you return it when you transferred it for two months? Why did you spend $1 billion of the $3 billion in the asset fund? Who did that $1 billion go to? After all, you don't believe what you're saying, but you expect the citizen to believe it. In 2019, we will see that the citizen will not believe. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0138par0077	Thank you, Mr. Pekshen. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the contract or the declaration of the contract of the 491th Amendment in Article 5 of the Law on Business Courts, which is currently in session, be changed in terms of either the contract or the resolution, and all kinds of terms be removed from the text of the substance. İsmail Faruk Aksu Zühal Topcu Deniz Depboylu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0139par0087	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0138par0088	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0140par0089	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0138par0090	Mr. Deniz Depboy will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0141par0093	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Nationalist Action Party Group on the motion we submitted in Article 5 of the Law on Business Courts. I salute our Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, in this bill that we're focusing on the problems of harmony and disagreement between jobs and employers, I also consider that today is World Teacher's Day, and if the employer is the Ministry of Education, I would like to remind you once again that teachers have problems with their employees, and I would like to mention a few of these problems. According to the data, I'd like to talk about the number of college graduates who are expected to appoint teachers today, who have applied to KPSS, but have not been appointed teachers. According to this 2016 data, 438,134. In May 2016, Minister of National Education Mr Nabi Avcı announced that the number of teachers waiting to be appointed was 349,277, but the number of teachers the Ministry needed was 66,574. So this statement was a statement before the expulsion of a teacher following the July 15 coup attempt. The number of teachers expelled from the National Ministry of Education has reached 33,973, along with all the decrees under the law, and if, in the end, we add them up, then we can say that there are about 100,000 teachers short of teachers in the Ministry of National Education right now, if we don't take into account the final purchases. Mr. Ismet Yilmaz's National Education Minister had already announced to us that the purchase of 80,000 teachers would be made, and now 40,000 teachers are waiting for the appointment. When will the appointment of 10,000 teachers be appointed in August? Our teacher candidates are looking forward to it first. Again, according to the statistics of the institute of higher education, there are 228,279 students who study only in education schools in order to become teachers as of 2016. There are other graduates of science, such as graduates of literature, graduates of theology, and then there are graduates of human and social sciences; they also apply to teaching by taking pedagogic formations, and the number increases a lot when we add them. Well, I'm curious, all of these teachers are getting ready to become teachers, and while they're waiting to become teachers, I'd like to know if there are any other teachers who have actually graduated from what departments they've been paid for, other than those who've earned it, who have been assigned to teaching, they need to be examined once. Again, KPSS is being removed in 2019, and a new testing system is being replaced by a central appointment exam for public staff. The name of this testing system is being introduced as a teaching system, a testing system, which has been announced by the Ministry of National Education that it will be conducted in the ENT style. Here, each ministry, according to this system, is asking questions about the area of the teachers it will take according to its field. Okay, there's nothing wrong with that, but there's an interview system coming up. The security investigation should have already happened, but there's a study done by TÜRK EDUC EDUCM-SENEST at the point of the interview system in 2016, where 98 per cent of teachers who enter this interview system to become a contract teacher have not found such an interview system transparent, while the problems with the interviews we've had since July 15th, given the questions that have been asked about the interviews that have been taken from us and the candidates who will be taken as teachers, it's a concern for us and for the candidates who will be taken as teachers. Again, of course, it's another problem when teachers are in a teacher's room, staffed, paid, contracted, different status. Of course, our fellow teachers have a lot of problems to talk about here, and I've only talked about those who are waiting for the appointment, but I hope we can discuss the problems of our fellow teachers who are already on duty again at a proper time, and I say to them, "We'll find a solution," and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0142par0103	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It has been changed to the reason why it is stated in Article 5 of the Law Bill 491 which is currently in session. Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Behcet Yıldırım Sibel Yiğitalp of Saadet Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0143par0113	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0142par0114	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0144par0115	We don't agree, dear President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0142par0116	On the motion, Diyarbakır MP Siegel Yiğitalp will speak. Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0145par0119	Mr. President, I've made a promise on the Business Law, but I've looked a little bit, and now, I'd like to take out a report card on the AKP Law. At least 18,400 people have died in the work murders since 2002. I'm not saying it's funny, I'm talking about the death of 18,400 people in work killings.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0146par0121	Are you talking to me?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0145par0122	Yes, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0146par0123	Don't do it.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0145par0124	I mean, I don't think it's something you'd listen to with a smile. Besides, so far, look, we're going to look at the subcontractor rate. When the AKP came to power, 387,000 people were subcontractors, while today, more than 2 million people were outstripped, and each election term promised a staff. Other than that, he follows a policy that devalues unsecured labor and labour, destroying unionisation. Look, in 2001, the unionization rate was 57.2%, but today -- in January -- the unionisation rate dropped to 12.8 percent. Again, on the other hand, when we look at unemployment rates, in 2000 the unemployment rate increased by 6.5 per cent to 12.6 per cent in 2017. So one out of four people are unemployed. And once again, the right to strike has been imposed because it has been described as a disruptor of national security and has been banned 15 times. Let me tell you about the racist hate crimes committed by Kurdish workers. Kurdish workers who have been subjected to the attacks of racists, hate-crime racists in several cities of Turkey in August, July and September in the last three months. They did it in August, they did it in September, and they finally did it in Burma. Look, on June 2nd, in the district of Nilüfer, a group of racists attacked Kurdish workers, tried to lynch construction workers, and they tried to lynch them again. On August 18, 2017, a group of racists attacked Kurdish workers who were working again at the Altıntaş Dam in Kütahya, and tried to pacify the incident through police, law enforcement forces there. Worst of all, two women, Perihan Akin, 36, and Nurcan Patak, 27, were gunned down in their tent, and Perihan Akin, who was from Viranşehir, died. Why did I say that? I said it because hate politics is being followed. In saying so, labor killings are increasing, there's subcontractorization, people are looking at the future with terrible security, while the Kurds who were forced to move from their homeland while they were living in worry have no job security, no job security, through hate politics when they go to work elsewhere. This has taken on every aspect of life so much that three weeks ago, Mr. Aysel Tuğluk, the mother of Mr. Tugluk, was taken out of Ankara, where she was buried in the capital of this country, because every minute and every second, people began to follow hate politics through race. This is the most dangerous time. If people are being held by their nature, by their ethnic identity, and they're being treated with kindness, everyone should be sitting here and thinking about it. Look, he showed us the way to President Kandil. The Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) said, "Go to Kandil. "
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0147par0130	You chose it, you chose it.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0145par0131	We're the third largest party in this country, a party that follows legal, legitimate, democratic politics, and we have millions of voters, and you're showing the Kandil as the way to millions of voters. Therefore, you are responsible for all those who go to Kandil, because you show them the Kandil, because you destroy the entire floor of democratic politics. By arresting people... Look, seven Kurds were robbed naked in Mugla, and we don't know what it is yet.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0147par0133	Seven who?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0145par0134	Seven Kurds.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0147par0135	Kurds?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0145par0136	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0147par0137	Wow!
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0145par0138	We don't know what happened. Velev is a PKK member, as you say. This government...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0148par0139	Mr. Yigitalp, please do not continue your conversation over ethnic identity because it is not yet known what it is.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0145par0140	I don't want to talk about it, but look, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0148par0141	We've been doing this for two days.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0145par0142	Okay, I'm asking.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0148par0143	Please... so...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0145par0144	And I ask, "Who is he, what is he, why was he stripped naked there, and why was he handcuffed in the back?"
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0148par0145	Then don't say Kurdt.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0145par0146	But now it's written, it's written by the press, it's not written by me, it's written by social media accounts.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0148par0147	That's not what the press says, like you said.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0149par0148	The press says 7 terrorists.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0145par0149	Mr. President, I'm not. Look, please...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0148par0150	I don't want to argue with you. Please pronounce it correctly.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0145par0151	Please... but I'm telling you something. I'm not saying my own pronunciation. I'm talking about the social media approach. I'm talking about Perihan, who was killed because he was Kurdish in Samsun, and I'm saying that Aysel Tuğluk's mother was exhumed. Why are you ignoring all this? Isn't that the shame of this country? So seven generations will be ashamed of it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Seven generations would be ashamed of being exhumed, and yet we have the knowledge and the level of politics...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0148par0154	Thank you, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0150par0155	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0148par0156	Wait a minute... I mean, I don't want to talk about it here, but since I'm a close witness to what's being said, and from the start, I can't possibly agree with what you're saying because we're going through that process, at least in terms of the government's foot, in a triangle that I'm both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Interior and myself. On behalf of the government, Mr. Secretary, it would not be right for me to answer. But the Minister is here. I felt the need to tell you because it's a process where I and the Home Secretary are involved. The government is here, and the President and the Prime Minister have shown the necessary sensitivity. Let's condemn the racist attack. So did I. Human beings are condemned.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0151par0159	Can I ask you something, Mayor? But I want to ask you something.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0148par0160	But there's no need to confuse the government's policy with the racist attack.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0151par0161	I'd like to ask you something, Mayor. Please... No, I want to ask you something.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0152par0163	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0151par0164	Please, President, I'd like to make a statement so that there's no misunderstanding...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0153par0165	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0151par0166	So, the governor of Ankara, the Ankara Police Commissioner...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0153par0167	Look, I'm not gonna discuss this with you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0151par0168	While the Minister is here, I'm asking...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0153par0169	I'll never discuss it with you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0151par0170	Have they been processed for the exhumation of a body? That's what I'm asking. Is it done?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0153par0171	Mr. Home Secretary has made a statement from here, and I'm a close witness. Please... so it would be really unfair to consider this a racist approach to government policy.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0151par0172	Then why are you accusing us of terrorism?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0153par0173	It's really not fair.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0151par0174	Then why are you leading us?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0153par0175	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0154par0176	Mr. President, we live with 80 million citizens in this country. We can't speak ethnically when separating Turk from Kurdish in the context of terror. The same expression of the speaker who was just now said: "7 Kurds were taken to the ground because they were Kurds, and they were robbed.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0151par0177	Yes, we're giving you the information on the record.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0154par0178	Not seven Kurds. The terrorist has been placed on the ground on seven charges of suicide bombings. If there is a mistake, you are the best witness to it, the concerned minister has been called, and the study on it has been initiated.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0155par0179	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0154par0180	This language is the most dangerous language. This language is not based on Parliament, but on Kandil, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0156par0182	What are you talking about? So what's this now?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0155par0183	Look, members of the law, Mr. Yigitalp, I've heard here...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0156par0184	Is it normal to strip naked?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0157par0185	Mr. President, warn me. What kind of language is that?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0155par0186	I'm talking, so please be respectful.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0156par0187	Is it normal to strip naked?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0155par0188	Here, seven Kurds were killed...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0156par0190	What does that mean?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0155par0191	May I have a word, please?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0158par0192	Is it true what he did?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0155par0193	Here, Mr. Yiğitalp said that seven Kurds were killed.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0159par0194	I didn't say he was murdered.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0155par0195	Now, we've been following this case for the past two days with the group's deputy presidents here with the Home Secretary.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0159par0196	I didn't say he was murdered, I said he was robbed naked.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0155par0197	Make that distinction. Make the distinction between terrorists and Kurds. In this country, we all have to live as brothers as Turks and Kurds, but we don't have to live with terrorists. Make that distinction, please. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0160par0199	Mr. President, if the witness' testimony is taken care of, it's for processing, or it's not for ethnic identity. The procedure, whoever it was yesterday...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0155par0200	No, it was... it was something else. He said here only 7 Kurds, that's what I object to.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0160par0201	Mr. President, allow us to express ourselves, finish our sentences, then object again.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0155par0202	Okay, well, here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0160par0203	Look, the procedure there is that seven people are exposed to the public in reverse handcuffs. That's the point of attention. That's what we're really pointing out, but if Mr. Turan is trying to make it look like the last time he's sitting, if he's trying to make it look like our choice, Mr. President, if he's trying to show 20 million people the Kandil way along with his children, then you're gonna have to object, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0155par0204	Yes, of course I'd object if he did, but that's not what he meant.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0160par0205	But look, a group of vice presidents.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0155par0206	And there's no reason to criticize the President's influence because he's the president.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0161par0207	Then we object as opposition.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0160par0208	Mr. President, do you approve of the work that was done then? For 20 million people to be shown the way to Kandil.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0155par0209	Mr. Tonrül, look, I forbid you to ask me that question, and I'm not saying anything else.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0160par0210	But look, you're expressing it for him.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0162par0211	Those people were live bombs, alive, alive! What are you defending?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0163par0212	What live bomb?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0164par0213	There, he said seven Kurds were killed, not the way Mr. Sibel Yiğitalp said on the stand. That's our objection.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0163par0214	I didn't say he was murdered, I said he was robbed naked, he was handcuffed in reverse.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0165par0215	What are you defending? They were all live bombs, live bombs!
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0166par0216	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0167par0217	That's the objection. I'll drop it.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0168par0218	Mr. President, my name has been mentioned.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0167par0219	Mr. Bulent Turan, please... In connection with this incident, the entire group's representatives, the group's vice presidents, are in the back, also aware of the efforts, the efforts, the efforts to clarify, the things that have been done in this case. Let's get this over with, please.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0169par0222	But we all have to condemn the way things were yesterday, no matter who it was.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0167par0223	Please... please...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0170par0224	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0169par0225	No man in this country deserves to be stripped naked, tortured.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0167par0226	That's something else, that's not the point, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0169par0227	Our disciple tried to express it.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0167par0228	That's not what this is about, that's not what Heroalp meant. Please...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0171par0229	Why is something else happening?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0172par0230	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0167par0231	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0172par0232	Mr. President, there are two different issues, one of which, based on the speech that we just spoke, claims that we're pretending to condone torture, our friends.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0173par0233	Why didn't you do something to the blood bathers?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0167par0234	Mr. Heroalp...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0172par0235	You'll listen, calm down...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0173par0236	Why didn't you?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0172par0237	You'll listen.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0173par0238	For God's sake, we're listening.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0174par0239	Mr. Heroalp, please... please.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0172par0240	Yesterday, in your presidency, all the members of the group, including HDP, expressed their discomfort with the matter.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0174par0241	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0172par0242	You called the Ministry at our request and stated that torture was never acceptable during the AK PARTY administrations.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0174par0243	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0172par0244	Besides, everyone knows how we've dealt with torture in the last 15 years.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0175par0245	We know!
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0172par0246	We know that in this country, 15 or 20 years ago, torture is on the agenda every day, and every day it's on the front page, with little exceptions, it's no longer on the agenda. We're against torture, in any case. We have a duty to fight the law, to fight the terrorists. But the most dangerous language is what seems to be less dangerous. I'll tell you one more time, Mr. Orator, he didn't say 7 terrorists.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0176par0248	He said 7 Kurds.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0172par0249	He didn't say the terrorist's rights, he said 7 Kurds were robbed on the ground.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0177par0250	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0176par0251	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0172par0252	And I say, this language is a dangerous language. Not because those people were Kurds, not because they were Turks, but because of the possibility of terrorism, they were put on the ground because they had a live bomb device.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0176par0253	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0178par0254	That's why his photos were taken and thrown away.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0172par0255	The fact that the action was overrated, that it was wrongly done is a matter of inquiry. We're on this side. However, it is the greatest betrayal of the Kurds to say that those who were laid down were not because of the terrorism claim.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0178par0257	That's for us to decide.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0172par0258	Once again, the place of this language is Kandil. It's not a democratic language, it's a betrayal of Kurds. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0179par0260	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0180par0261	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0179par0262	Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0180par0263	Look, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I've just tried to express the purpose of the character.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0181par0264	Let Mr. Mahmut take that statement back.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0179par0265	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0180par0266	No one, no one, has the right to invite a congressman or the people who represent him anywhere. I strongly reject this language. What we want to say is that no man in this land, regardless of who he is, deserves to be stripped naked and exposed.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0179par0267	You're saying the same thing. We're against torture, you say.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0180par0268	The language he said...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0179par0269	Okay, thank you. It's over. That's not the point.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0182par0271	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0179par0272	We've talked enough, we've discussed it in the back and now here.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0182par0273	No, I'm going to say, Mr. President, there's nothing that doesn't make sense. We're against torture.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0179par0274	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0182par0275	However, once again, it's as irresponsible as torture to claim that a human being is being tortured because of his ethnic identity.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0179par0276	Okay, okay, thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0183par0277	How many a generation has passed away in this land!
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0182par0278	Mr. Mahmut, that language is a dangerous language, you must warn me.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0183par0279	Weren't the busts of Ataturk made to kiss young people because they looked like Kurds?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0182par0280	The wrong attitude of a cop who did that wrong is innocent compared to yours.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0183par0281	Did you, did you do a procedure on yesterday's treatments, do you still have a publicized procedure?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0184par0282	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 6th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the following correction of the proposed amendment to Article 6 of the Law on Business Courts. MADDE6- (1) The court is the court in charge of the trial in business courts, and the court of residence and the court of residence at the time of the trial of the defendant's real or legal person. (2) If there is more than one defendant, one of them is also in charge of the settlement court. (3) In cases of compensation due to a business accident, the municipality court of residence is also in charge of where the workplace accident or damage occurred. (4) There are provisions in other laws concerning the competencies of business courts. (5) The authorization agreements against the provisions of this clause are invalid. Necati Yılmaz Mehmet Gökdağ Zeynel Emre Namik Havutça Kemal Zeybek Gülay Backuper Kazim Arslan Mahmut Tanal Bulent Öz Does the Commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0185par0299	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0184par0300	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0186par0301	We disagree, my dear President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0184par0302	Balıkesir MP Mehmet All will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. All.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0187par0305	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the Bill of the Business Courts Act. I salute you all. First of all, it's the month of the war. From here, I salute all those who feel the pain of Kerbala, and those who take the rebellion of Hussain the Lord against the oppressor, and those who stand by him. Although this event took place a thousand and three hundred years ago, the same mentality continues in a different way today. Today the evildoers are playing with innocent people's lives, blood, and property, in order to strengthen their power. Here's the C.O.D. table. Hundreds of thousands of people lost their jobs unfairly. These people were starved, abandoned to hunger with their families. The pensioners are fighting for a life of increasing cost every day - farmers, students, tradesmen again. For two hundred and eleven days, Nuriya and Semih have been on hunger strike, exposing their bodies to injustice, clawing at death. Today we have the same situation with the workers. The social state is the state that protects the rights of the worker in front of the powerful employer. The conflict between labor courts, workers and employers was established to protect the worker, but the mandatory intermediary system in this bag, which is part of the law, instead of protecting the worker, is taking away the worker's rights. That is the purpose of the policies imposed by the AKP's government. In 15 years, you have seized every right in the history of the Republic. Do you know how many workers died during the AKP during the job killings? According to official figures, 20,000 workers died in the job murder, along with their families' lives gone. In May, you launched a campaign of zero accidents. The minister has promised zero accidents in four months, but unfortunately, in four months, business accidents in the country have resulted in a massacre. 750 workers lost their lives during that period, and more than 50 were children. Of course, it is your authority that is responsible. When a minister breaks his promise, all he has to do is resign. Look, yesterday I was responsible for the death of two soldiers of the Dutch Defence Minister. I'm talking about 753 lives here, but unfortunately no minister cares. You said that when 301 people died in Soma, there's a Soma somewhere in the country every month, but no one's talking. Do not tell us about the rights of the workers; we are friends of the workers. Don't tell us. The workers were most victimized during your time in power. In the past, I have banned the strikes by taking advantage of the AKP's president.... who has given pictures in the past during the strike..... You forbid strikes so your own followers can exploit the workers more? Devrik Prime Minister Davutoglu promised that some two years ago, on October 28, 2015, we would recruit those who worked for Tabheron. Two years ago, you promised a subcontractor, but the promises were false and you cheated on these people. Will you continue to deceive people when the election is near again? Now our people will never believe your lies. History will write not to Joseph Yerkels, nor to Genghis, who blasphemed against the nation, nor to the worker who saw the minimum wage much, nor to those who lived in luxury and luxury, nor to those who used the OHAL to lower the voice of the workers, nor to the deputy who built an illegal palace with the people's money, but to the Hussars who tried to rule unjustly against all this darkness. We're on the way to the Husseins. We're with the worker, the worker. We're on the side of social government, justice, justice. We're on the victim's side. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0188par0315	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration be added after the statement of Article 6 of the Law on Business Courts 491 which is in session. İsmail Faruk Aksu Zühal Topcu Mustafa Mit Ahmet Kenan of the Sea Depboy Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0189par0325	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0188par0326	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0190par0327	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0188par0328	Mr Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0191par0331	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have received a pledge on the 6th amendment of the bill we're discussing on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. First of all, I salute our General Assembly. Members of parliament, even though there are legal adaptations to the basis of this clause, regulations in the matter we have discussed can also cause problems that may cause some loss of rights in the future. If arrangements are to be made in business, it would be helpful for us to take a brief look at our current working system, our working life. Unfortunately, the unsecured working patterns that continue today have not been finalized. Again, not all of our subcontractors have been able to regain their position, which was promised by the power years ago. Unregistered employment rate has increased by 0.7 points per year to 34.7% per year, according to these latest June figures. While unsunioned work continues to increase, union rights have yet to be achieved by ILO standards. Dear lawmakers, while these problems are enormous in business, the economic and social conditions of our employees are becoming increasingly heavy. If we look at the latest inflation figures, and these are September numbers, we'll come across findings that confirm our detection. Inflation in September increased 0.65, domestic producer inflation 0.24, and their cumulative yearly increase was 11.2 per cent in TÜFE, and 16.3 per cent in ÜFE. In particular, the increases in consumer prices have coincided with record levels since 2004. The economic management, which began with an inflation target of 6.5 per cent year, has recently acknowledged that inflation would be 9.5 per cent, according to its own documents, with the recently announced OVP. However, the inflation took place around 2 per cent of the previous years when we looked at September, December. So, when we look forward to today, we will be faced with a missed goal in all 2017, and it is clear that we will end this year again with a double digit. There is no good news for our employees, for our work life, for the announced OVP (O.V.P.). When we look inside, instead, we face a multinational income in dollars, with high inflation, unemployment, and high tax increases, and a three-year promise that the struggle for income has become heavy. Moreover, the new OVP nearly destroyed the 2023 goals of power that once did not fall from its mouth, and the targets disappeared. So in 2020, the income per person is estimated to be $13,000, and in just three years, we don't have any data on how to get to the $20,000 level in 2023. Members of parliament, the tax hikes announced along with this OVP have turned all eyes on the Ministry of Finance. In eight months of the year, the Finance Ministry failed to use its budget in an affordable manner, and again offered about 25 billion liras. Those who think of closing these gaps with taxes and other hikes also ignore the fact of our country: Unfortunately, when we look again, there is a difference between the richest and the poorest, about 7.6 times the difference between the richest and the poorest, and 30 million of our population can't bring meat, fish, chickens to the table every two days. While we're at it, I think we should apply policy not only to increase, but to facilitate the struggle for life and livelihood, and I salute the General Assembly once again.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0192par0338	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It has been changed as a reference in Article 6 of the Law Bill 491, which is currently in session. Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Behcet Yıldırım Saadet Capable Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0193par0348	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0192par0349	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0194par0350	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0192par0351	Mr. Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0195par0354	Mr. President, on behalf of my party and group, I have made a pledge on the draft of Business Courts Act 491, which is being discussed. For this reason, I give my regards to all political prisoners, particularly Bitlis Mayor Hüseyin Olan and Mutki Mayor Özcan Birlik, who have been sentenced to seven and a half years in trustee's law. Dear MPs, I offer my condolences to the beloved public leader Celal Talabani, who has spent his life fighting for the freedom of the Kurdish people, to Allah's mercy, to his family, to his loved ones, and to all the Kurdish people. Again, I offer my condolences to the beloved Gaziantep MP Abdulkadir Assalem, to God's mercy, to his family, and to his relatives. We celebrate World Teacher's Day, and I ask our teachers for patience and patience, and I salute them all. Dear MPs, one of AKP's greatest statements was the rule of law, not the law of superior ones. Today, in the eyes of society, trust in justice, justice, and justice have almost completely disappeared. There's only one small group left who trusts in justice, and other than that, there's no faith or trust in law, which means you've established the superiority of your own law. One of the reasons why the public's belief in law and justice is so much lower than that is the method of law and logic. Prepping every arrangement with a bag of legal logic can't solve problems. As this bill clearly shows, the law or judicial mechanism is actually being unnecessary, the duty of the judiciary is either to be handed over to commissions or to finders such as those exported with the KHK. You're setting up your own autonomous courts to lighten the duties of the judges. It's interesting that the structure, which boasts that we are a state of law, has always been a barrier to those who seek their rights through law. The bill is called the Law of Business Courts, but there is no court because the bill, in fact, lifts the process with the hands of intermediaries. A legal state cannot perceive the case of the worker as a threat to the employer. Now you're trying to create a society that can't even claim its rights. Dear lawmakers, the government has a slightly more violent understanding of each bill. In each of your plans, people have a right to their rights. The worker and the worker are not given the opportunity to choose or use their will. Whether it's mandatory individual pension that's been taken out before, whether it's mandatory intermediary that's now being removed, it's always trying to compel society and workers to do something, everyone's being forced by the power. This tyrant must give up understanding. If the government wants to start a dating organization at some point, of course, let them, but let the people who seek their right to apply there decide. Dear lawmakers, until now, we must not deny both the correct statements of the AKP government. First, he used the word "lie machine" for the opposition - a machine invented to distinguish truth, lie detector, liar, and truthful person. Second, metal fatigue. Technically, that's a very accurate explanation. The next phase of metal fatigue is the flow and smell of metal. In fact, the metal that comes to this stage loses its properties, the metals that are in this situation become scraps, and the other scrap metals are melted into a hoop, making new alloys. It's called recycling. I don't know if it's gonna come out of your hoop or pyrite, but you're still trying to make pyrites. You know, the British describe the pyrit as the pyrit as the gold of the fools. I'm guessing it's not gonna come out of your hoop, it's not gonna be Swedish steel. This is usually used in the production of waste water pipes. And because of Teacher's Day, I can't help but mention that. Did we go out with an authority for TEOG? He said, "We are with the people's minds." You didn't come with TEOG, but you did bring TEOG, so I hope you'll go with TEOG. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0196par0366	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in the 7th article, and I read the first motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposed amendment to the 7th Article of the Law on Business Courts be corrected in the following way. MADDE 7- (1) In business courts, a simple trial is carried out. (2) If cases are piled up, the evidence and evidence of each demand are considered separately in terms of the facts. (3) The provisions of the Law Code No. 6100, dated 12/1/2011, also apply in accordance with the rules of law. (4) The duration of the application to the Law begins to work from the notice of the petition to the parties. (5) Law-based decisions are immediately decided by the district court and the Supreme Court. Necati Yılmaz Mehmet Gökdağ Namik Havutça Kemal Zeybek Gülay Responsor Kazim Arslan Mahmut Tanal Bkent Özgin Özkoç Does the Commission agree with the proposed motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0197par0386	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0196par0387	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0198par0388	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0196par0389	Mr. Engin Özkoc will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0199par0392	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I really believe that everything that is said here is very important. But I'm the Clumsy Congressman. On the night of August 17, 1999, three o'clock at five o'clock, Sakarya was shaken by a massive earthquake, and nearly 4,000 of our citizens in Sakarya fell under the rubble and lost their lives. That night, we buried our dead without a shroud, and we couldn't even shed a tear over our children and women. Eighteen years have passed since such a difficult time. Eighteen years later, 17,000 people were killed in the Adapazari earthquake at the urban transformation shooting ceremony of Environment and Urbanism Minister Mehmet Özhaseki Mamak Municipality yesterday. Knowing that there were earthquakes under the ground for a hundred years, why don't we take precautions and relax? My fellow congressmen, I call from here to the Camaraderie and to the Turkish Parliament. We first asked the governor of Sakarya after receiving a county briefing of the Governor of Sakarya. According to the State National Education Director of Sakarya Governorate's town briefing, 21 schools will be destroyed in the first earthquake in Sakarya, 39 schools must be strengthened, and 190 schools will be held that way without measure of earthquake safety. A minister who has been in the government for 15 years, representing this government, says, "Why don't we take precautions?" Why don't you take precautions? With the taxes you put in that day, you collected a 60 billion-dollar earthquake tax, so that's 60 quadrillion liras in the old number. The funding for fixing those schools today is $135 trillion in old money. Well, isn't it worth 135 trillion liras for lives, for children, for women, for their families? What are you waiting for? I've invested millions and millions of dollars. When you say, "Why don't we act without any redness, no boredom, no remorse?" You ask our people, "Why don't we act?" What will our people do? Are they going to put together the money they collect from their own pockets and pay 135 trillion liras and send their children to that school, or are they not going to send their children to school because they have no money? Is the state going to look at the future and the lives of the children in the Republic of Turkey? I'm speaking to you from the bench of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I reported it to the governor, I reported it to the MPs, I informed our ministers, I filed a question motion, and the answer came in, "Yes, these schools will be destroyed in the first earthquake." He said, "Mr. Minister." However, if you blame this crime on the public, I say once again from the seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the plague is yours, but it's enough for your grandchildren and your whole family and your party. Don't kill the children of Sakarya. Don't kill the children of Turkey. Spend your money on the road, on the right, on the left, on our children's lives and on their future. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0200par0399	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of Article 7 of the Law on Business Courts 491 be changed from the date of the declaration of the 7th Amendment in the 4th article. İsmail Faruk Aksu Zühal Topcu Deniz Depboylu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0201par0409	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0200par0410	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0202par0411	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0200par0412	Ankara MP Mustafa Mit will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mit.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0203par0415	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding Article 7 of the Law on Business Courts Number 491 under discussion. I salute the General Assembly. I also congratulate all our teachers on the Day of Teachers of the World on October 5th. Dear lawmakers, the Law on Business Courts No. 5521 and the Law on Business Courts No. 6100 are being lifted, and the Law on Laws of Laws 6100 is being taken into account. Law 6325 provides a necessary mediation mechanism, while intermediary conflicts in the disputes of the law are being taken to the mediator as an elder. The intermediary procedure is an application to resolve disputes quickly before they move to court. It will be mandatory to apply for mediation before the trial is filed in cases of individual or collective contract-based employment and extradition. The goal of business law and business judgment is, of course, to provide a healthy economic environment as well as to protect a worker who is weaker and vulnerable to the employer. While understanding the search for a new balance between the principle of protecting the worker and the understanding of the protection of the business, we do not find it right to ignore or abandon the principle of protecting the worker. The alternative conflict methods, such as intermediary, will show the desired benefit when the parties are equal and the freedom of contract is valid. The worker, however, is not only economically but socially weaker and weaker than the employer. In this area, where the inequality between the parties is seen by everyone, mediation must be stopped from being mandatory, it must be the elder. The arrangement must be made even stronger, with provisions to encourage the application for mediation. Dear MPs, Article 7 of the provision brought in is organised by the judicial procedure and by the law. The long spread of judgment has caused unacceptable difficulties for the worker who has worked his way through life. The immediate delivery of rights and justice will contribute to public order and social peace. A simple trial is adopted by Article (1). With this procedure, the trial will be resolved shortly. The period of law enforcement against the decisions made in business courts is no longer a subject of debate, with the ruling that the notice will begin to apply to the parties. On the other hand, the employment court's decisions will be immediately decided. Due to its ruling, the Court of Appeals or the Court of Appeals will also be examined on a judicial holiday. It is not appropriate for the Supreme Court to be shown only as the Supreme Court in extradition cases, the Supreme Court to be closed because the Supreme Court is also a prison door and a court of law. Clearly, in terms of the formation of the law, the drink is extremely important. The removal of this function of the Supreme Court says it would be wise to reconsider the arrangement, as business law lacks an important resource, and I respectfully salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0204par0424	Thank you, Mr. Mit. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It has been changed to the sum of the number 491 rows in Article 7 of the Law Bill. Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Happy Behcet Yıldırım Garo Paylan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0205par0434	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0204par0435	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0206par0436	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0204par0437	İstanbul MP Garo Paylan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0207par0440	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, this week, AKA Ayşe Teacher, who joined the White Show program, has been sentenced to a year and three months in prison for the propaganda of the terrorist organization. Dear friends, when did Teacher Ayşe have this conversation? He did it on January 8, 2016, at a time when conflicts were concentrated, peace climate was destroyed, our cities were burned down, people were killed, victims. In those days, we said over and over on the council bench: "Look, the peace process has been broken, there is a conflicting climate, and we are not looking at it; there are many provocations, a coup dynamics may be in effect." None of you are interested. You didn't look at Suruç, you didn't look at the killings of two of our officers in Ceylanpınar, you didn't look at the bombings of the airport, and a coup dynamic pulled us in, and in the end, there was a coup attempt. Fortunately, it failed, but the impact dynamic is still going on. In those days, a conscientious voice appeared on television and said, " Do you realize what is going on in the east and southeast of this country? Children, mothers, people get killed. As an artist, in a way, as a human being, you shouldn't be silent either, and in a way, you should say stop. Also, I'd like to say that there are poor people who are happy about dying children. I can't say anything to those people, or rather, we can't say anything to these people, except say, "Woe be to you." I just want to say one more thing, I'm sorry, I'm a teacher, and I'd like to address the teachers who have abandoned their students: How will they ever return there? How will they look those beautiful, innocent, purehearted children in the face, in the eye? I can't really talk. By the way, what's happening is very different from what's happening on the screen, in the media. I mean, I can't really talk. To remain silent as a human being, I... come closer, see, hear. Give us a hand. Pity! People don't die, children don't die, mothers don't cry. That's all I have to say. Thank you. There's applause in the studio on the air. As a matter of fact, I want to say something else, because of my emotional intensity, I can't say anything. You notice, my voice is shaking. Bomb sounds, gunshots... people are fighting thirst, hunger. Especially babies, children... please, be sensitive, don't be quiet, I beg you. Then, immediately after that -- of course, we can't tolerate these conscientious voices -- unfortunately in those days -- an investigation is being launched for five years for terror organization propaganda. Whiteıt Ozturk is being held in the field and teacher Ayþe is being tried. Dear friends, is there anyone here who won't sign under all this? The children should not die, the mothers should not cry, the people should not die. He is a teacher, and you know that Mr. President said so many times in the days of the peace process, the EC PARTY speakers said so many times. He says that on conflict days, when we need it most, he has a conscientious voice, and he's being tried for terror organization propaganda, and friends, Mr. Secretary, this week this teacher is convicted. The reason is, you've been propaganda for a terrorist organization. Dear friends, look, it's easy to make peace in the days of peace, in the days of peace, in the romantic days; the important thing is that in difficult times, in conflicted days, we need these sounds, and we need to grow these sounds, not silence them. If the voice of Teacher Ayşe grows, peace will come to this country; if the voice of Teacher Ayşe grows, our hardened, dried consciences will be resolved, and perhaps together, especially as MPs of this country's Assembly, we will all find a way to peace. Look, in those days, a terrorist organization put a sock on our heads, and in those days, Teacher Ayþe called out to us, and we didn't hear it, and we experienced the coup attempt. If we punish those kind of conscientious voices these days, I assure you, more socks will be knitted on our heads. My respects.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0208par0447	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 8 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposed amendment to Article 8 of the Law on Business Courts be corrected in the following way. MADDE 8- (1) is not subject to appeal on the basis of decisions made in the following cases and jobs, provided the provisions of other laws remain hidden. A) Decisions made in appeal cases under Article 20 of Law 4857. B) Decisions made by the employer to abolish disciplinary sentences given to the worker in accordance with collective contract of employment or business arrangements. C) 1 8/10/2012 of Unions No. 6356 and the collective contract of employment; 1) The first and fifth jokes of Article 24 2) The fourth joke of Article 34, 3) The first joke of Article 53, 4) The first joke of Article 71, Decisions made in cases under the scope of the case. ) It was dated 25/6/2001 and 4688 of the Unions of Public Servants and the Common Contract Act; 1) The eighth joke of Article 10, 2) The fourth joke of 14th article, Decisions made in cases under the scope of the case. Necati Yılmaz Mehmet Gökdağ Namik Havutça Zeynel Emre Kemal Zeybek Mahmut Tanal Gülay Responsor Kazim Asslan Bulent Öz Omar Suha Aldan Cemal Okan Yüksek Does the commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0209par0475	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0208par0476	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0210par0477	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0208par0478	Mr. Namik will speak Havut on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Havut.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0211par0481	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 8 of the 8th Amendment. I salute your high council. Minister, we currently have around 12.5 million workers in Turkey, and only 1.5 million of these workers are unionists. So during your rule, the workers' rights, autonomy rights, union rights are incredibly down and down, and the ILO European Regional Meeting in Istanbul is now being protested by European unions due to dismissals, expulsions. Their reason is that the meeting is being protested at this time because you did not disclose the legal grounds of employees who were laid off by decrees under the rule of law, who were driven to unemployment, and were not given legal supervision. The ILO meeting is currently not being attended by European labour unions. Mr. Secretary, this is very important, please listen. I'm talking about an incident. Look, by the way of the State of Emergency, the laws of the law have turned into guillotines, guillotines. Mr. Secretary, if you'll listen to me, I have a very important case. Ibrahim Kaboglu, professor of constitutional law and a figure who founded the International Constitutional Law Association in the squares and he's telling me. We've been to a lot of panels together. For what reason was I expelled? What is the legal basis for this, he says. Your courts are biased, judges are instructed, many things are said. He says, "I am willing." He says, "I want to be judged." Friends, Turkey has a flag in the human rights field, a constitutional law professor is being expelled from his profession, his passport is being confiscated, he needs to attend international meetings now, abroad -- he has a cure -- he teaches lessons in many places, he can't go abroad. Mr. Secretary, you are the Minister of Justice of this country, and I ask you here in front of the Grand Assembly of Turkey: What legal basis was Ibrahim Kaboğlu discharged on? Two: Why was his passport confiscated? Three: why can't he go abroad? Why was he cut off from the SGK? Is this the guy? Is there a document? Do people get wasted that cheap in this country? These people don't grow up easy. Mr. Secretary, I beg of you. Who did it, what did it... you know, you've got a decree in a law order, you know, you're exported to the Fetullah Gulen traitor gang, contact, and property. Now, I'm asking you, does Ibrahim Kaboğlu have any involvement, contact, or belonging to this movement? Put it in the middle if you have it. I'm a judge, he says. Of course, there's a lot of rights robberies about workers and employees right now. Look, the fact that our working friends are now facing giant corporations through mediation is never appropriate in Turkey's terms in today's terms. Look, with the State of Emergency decrees, you're expressing it yourself. What does Mr. President say to businessmen at a business meeting -- they've just been told -- what does he say to businessmen? What do you want? Right now, we're holding out all kinds of workers' strikes, all kinds of rights, all kinds of union moves, and we're already holding them back. What's wrong with these OHR practices? So it says that we now have the workforce, the workers, and now by this law, we make our workers legally vulnerable to giant corporations, powerful monsters. This means that in Turkey's conditions, once again in the working world, the bird is to deliver the wolf. Right now, I'm saying that in this working life, our workers will once again be struck by the workforce of our world. And as a final statement, Mr. Secretary, Ibrahim Kaboglu Hodja's condition must be evaluated immediately and taken into consideration as an example, and that all actions and procedures carried out by the administration are subject to legal control; authority, shape, reason, subject, purpose elements, and I urge you and the Ministry of Justice to consider the position of the teacher in private. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0212par0494	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 8 of Article 8 of Business Courts Act 491 (a) from the draft text of the draft. İsmail Faruk Aksu Zühal Topcu Deniz Depboylu Does the Commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0213par0504	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0212par0505	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0214par0506	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0212par0507	I'm reading the reason: Supreme Court 9. The Supreme Court of Justice is 22 to relieve the workload of the legal department. The Legal Office has been established, and this office has been designated as the appeals authority for lawsuits demanding extradition. Then Supreme Court 7. The Legal Office has also been assigned as a special authority office in cases where they will receive employees, and the case files from which they will receive extradition and labour have been divided between these apartments. In time, even among these three circles, there were major differences of opinion, and in cases such as these, the unity of the jury was shaken. In addition to the fact that even the apartments under the Supreme Court have had difficulty securing unity in the chamber, it is evident that it is imperative that a high-level court be found in order to ensure the unity of the court, given that decisions that have been significantly differentiated in the district court, which have no co-ordination between them. The Supreme Court is no doubt the only authority that can provide the unity of this chamber. Clearly, the provision intended to be brought in by Article 8 (a) is more likely to undermine unity and trust in the implementation of the bill. For this reason, the (a) bill is intended to be removed from the bill. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 8 of Law Bill 491, which is currently in session, the "other declaration of the Law has been changed into another. " Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Happy Behcet Yıldırım Ziya Pir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0215par0521	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0212par0522	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0216par0523	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0212par0524	Diyarbakır MP Ziya Pir will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Pir.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0217par0527	Mr. President, I salute you all, and I salute all of you, especially our MPs, who are still being held hostage in prison despite the Constitutional Court's decision, especially from this place, and from this place, Mr. Demirtaş and Mr. Yüksekdağ. Of course, here we are, saluting everyone while we say hello. Our eyes are black, we can give, but you be a little more careful, because before Batman even speak, only my dear Batmans, I salute all of you. Since he said, "I salute you all." One of our deputies was demoted here two days ago. I'd like to say from here that we don't approve of this, that I do. There's just been an argument here, Mr. President, there's been a movement, and I can't help but say a few words about it. Now, you may recall that your lawmakers in particular were here a moment ago, Mr. Diyarbakır MP, who knows very well that in the 1990s, he had seen the wrongs of those who committed the wrongs of these days, the wrongs of their father, from time to time. Now, when those wrong-doers were doing those things, the political will here was always saying that despite all the troubles, the mountain was inviting people to the plain to do politics. But at the point where we're here today, Mr. President of this party, and just now the vice president of the group, he's showing us the way to our party and our constituents to Kandil. Even then, there was political intelligence in one of them, in the establishment of the AK PARTY -- I know -- political intelligence was somewhere, but the point you've come today, the point of showing someone the way to the mountains, has shown us again the level of political intelligence that this party has come from. I really feel sorry for the AK PARTY. I'm really sad that just ten years ago, three years ago, four years ago, at a different point, when you were at a different level, the level that you were at today really upset me. Dear friends, don't close your eyes, your ears when you're in Turkey, you're in the state, you're in the country, you're in the country, you're in the country, you're in the country, you're in the country, you're in the country, you're in the country, you're in the country, you're in the country, you're in the country, you're in the country, you're in the country, you're in the country, you're in the country, you're in the country, you're in the country, you're in the country, you're in the Don't close your eyes, open your ears, because if you open your eyes, you can hear a lot of different things. Don't believe it with your eyes closed just because a minister said "alive bomb" or a governor said "alive bomb." On March 21st, the celebrations were to be held in Diyarbakır. A young man from Malatya was murdered at 8:30 in the morning. The first statement made by the governor was a live bomb. At that time, they tried to silence people, but they missed the sight of the free press; images, photographs. It turned out that the young man, Kemal, and Kemal the Malatian, was not a living bomb, because he had stripped himself, and I am not a live bomb. Nevertheless, that boy was murdered there by the police. So, dear friends, my time is short, and while the Minister is here, I'd like to make another point. My compatriot, neighboring villager Najmettin Hodja was murdered a few months ago in Tucson. I've been in touch with the family since day two. We did everything we could with Mr. Önlü. Of course, our ears, our eyes, our arms aren't as long as the government's, but here's some information that comes to our ears. The Minister is here. We owe it to the family. This matter needs to be investigated, Mr. Secretary. We all owe it to that family, to that teacher, to that life. Something smells bad in there. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Who's that kid...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0218par0536	Can you give me a minute?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0219par0537	Are you finished or should I give you a minute?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0217par0538	Let the record show from here. Who followed that boy, who shot that boy on the road in Tucson and...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0220par0540	Mr. President, give me a minute to make some noise.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0221par0541	I'll give you one more minute, Mr. Pir.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0217par0542	It's not too much to ask, it's already understood. Who followed that boy from Siverek, who stopped him, and who ordered him to be killed? This needs to be investigated. Something smells awful to us. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0221par0545	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0222par0548	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0221par0549	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0222par0550	The place where the PARTI arrives is open for discussion. The speaker said. I'd like to make a statement, if I may.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0221par0551	Two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0222par0555	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I've just tried to listen carefully to Mr. Pir. See, the EC PARTY was talking about democratic politics when it was founded, and it called torture zero tolerances. We're in the same place. We're defending democratic politics, we're calling it zero torture, and really, we've taken this issue down from Turkey's agenda by making a tremendous amendment to torture, by taking serious measures in practice. In 15 years, you and our society have been following very closely where we came from about torture, but please, let's not abuse yesterday's matter. We came together yesterday to discuss the matter, including the four group vice presidents -- the MP, the CHP, the AK PARTY -- we don't approve of it, we oppose all forms of torture. This is wrong. We say it, we say it.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0223par0557	Do as you're told, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0222par0558	You're right, but what's so much more dangerous is that because of the fact that you are Kurds, seven people have been laid down. If you say that this is a dangerous language, it's a false language.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0223par0559	He's back on the same page!
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0224par0560	Mr. Ziya didn't say that.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0222par0561	We don't tell anyone to go to Kandil. This is Congress.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0224par0562	Your president told me.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0222par0563	Anyone who loves the flag of this country, loves its nation, loves its state, comes to Parliament, but instead of doing business in parliament, instead of being on a democratic regime, they put 7 people on the ground. If you say that language is a dangerous language; it's no use to Kurds, it's no use to party, it's no use to anyone. So what we say is, if you're just trying to understand a party based on racial distinction, based solely on ethnic nationalist understanding, it has no place in the democratic regime, its address is Kandil. It's not about showing a party to a party, it's about a dangerous language, go to the Kandil language. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0225par0567	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0226par0568	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0225par0569	Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0226par0570	Mr. President, we all remember when Mr. President, the president of the AKP, showed the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) people the way to Kandil. On the first day of the opening of this Assembly, co-Chairs illegally, lawlessly, on a day when the mayors were illegally imprisoned, we went to the opening of the House in front of the prison where our Co-Chair was held hostage. It was used that day, too. This is a democratic right. We used our democratic rights. So, Mr. Bulent Turan is rebutting Mr. President, AKP President? Let him explain it to us.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0225par0572	No, Mr. Turan, what's going on here is...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0227par0573	I can answer that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0225par0574	Excuse me a minute. Mr. Turan, here, on the speech of Mr. Heroalp...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0227par0576	They should condemn that language.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0225par0577	... and he made it very clear what he had just said, and he said, "Let's not use this language."
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0228par0578	Mr. President, look, if we can get out of here with a reference to the last conversation and go back three times before...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0225par0579	No, no. He did no such thing, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0228par0580	...we'll repeat our reasons.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0229par0581	That's not what Mr. Ziya said. Mr. Ziya didn't say that.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0225par0582	Please, Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0229par0583	What did Mr. Ziya say?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0230par0584	Look, we said... we opposed that procedure there.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0225par0585	Mr. Toğrül, look, I'm not comfortable with those words because I'm the one who promised, and I'm the one who's in charge.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0229par0586	Mr. President, what did Mr. Ziya say?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0225par0587	Mr. Paylan, I'm speaking. I'm in charge. Then he arose, and answered him. So he thought he couldn't convince her enough that he -- that I understood what he was saying -- he repeated it, did he, Mr. Turan?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0229par0589	He couldn't, yeah.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0231par0590	He's never convinced, not nearly enough.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0232par0591	Mr. President, I don't know why we're extending this polemic. The point is, Mr. Pir said in his speech, the AK PARTY came to a very different place from its place 15 years ago.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0233par0592	Yes, you said that.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0232par0593	I made a promise to this tease, is there anything wrong with that, our smiling friend, is there anything wrong with that? No.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0233par0594	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0232par0595	That's why I left.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0233par0596	Yes, I gave you my word.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0232par0597	But I'm telling you, I believe in Mr. Mahmut's wisdom, too.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0234par0598	AK PARTY isn't where it was 15 years ago, it opens up an extra discussion.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0233par0599	But Mr. Toğrül, please, look... I mean, I'm not really into doing this about polemics. It's all happening so clearly.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0232par0600	Mr. President, Mr. Toğrul... I also believe in the wisdom of Mr. Toğrul. The Regents can make mistakes. It's our job to make it up to you, to try to make it up to you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0233par0602	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0235par0603	▪ Can the president also make mistakes? The president of the AKP also makes mistakes.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0232par0604	Seven people were laid down because they were Kurds. If you call them Kurds, that would require a reprimand, that would require a revision, I'm trying to tell you that. It's their self-appreciation.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0236par0606	So I object to that sentence, and now I'm going to say it.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0237par0607	When nothing is going on, if a party leader is showing the way to Kandil, it's an intervention in democratic politics, and that's how we're going to see it.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0236par0608	But right now, you're saying something else, you're insisting otherwise.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0237par0609	But wouldn't that be possible, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0236par0610	Please, let's keep an eye on the agenda, let's not get into anything else.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0238par0611	Let's move on, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0236par0612	In Article 9 there are three motions. All three of the motions are the same. I'll process these motions together: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It has been changed in the following terms in Article 9 of the 491 rows of the Law Bill. Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Bedia Öz Gökçe The signatures of the other motion are: İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Mit Zuhal Topcu The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Gökdağ Namık Havutça Cemal Okan Yüksel Zeynel Emre Kemal Zeybek Gülay Backup Kazim Arslan Bkent Öz Ahmet Akin Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0239par0636	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0236par0637	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0240par0638	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0236par0639	Mr. Mahmut Toğrul of Gaziantep will be the first to speak on the same motions. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0241par0642	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're having a discussion about business law, but I'd really like to explain a little bit about what our law, our judgment, has come to. Mr. Justice Minister, if you'll listen to me, I'd like to give you two cases.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0242par0645	You address the General Assembly, Mr. Toğrul, please.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0241par0646	Okay. Mr. President, on 16/9/2015, he was taken into custody in Kahramanmarash Pazarcık district and released on probation. It's been signed for five days. Five days, he goes to the police station every day, he signs it. What's the date? 16/9/2015. He petitions the prosecutor over and over again, saying that me going to the police station every five days means that I don't work; that freedom of personal freedom -- freedom of travel, a lot of freedom -- is a total loss of my rights. Unfortunately, there's still no case file on him. So he's been detained, released, but he has to go to the police station for five days. This friend of ours was working at the textile factory, and he had to leave because he had to walk and go from his residence to the police station -- there's a small town on Sunday -- five kilometers away, no transport, no transport. Mr. President, for such a long time, do you think it's legal for a person to go to the police station for five days and still not be turned into a prosecution? I want to give you a second example. It's Sunday again, dear friends. Our president of Marketsik district, President of the People's Democratic Party, Bazazcık district. He was in a car accident in Germany, retired on disability, returned to Turkey, returned to his hometown and became president of the Democratic Party of Peoples. He's got two legs, wheelchairs, wheelchairs. At other times, however, he can conduct his own life, activities with the help of two people. He's being detained. When he's in custody, he falls out of a wheelchair, breaks his hip, dear friends, and he's released on this, but he's been on probation for two days, and he's paying for his own medical bills because he's retired from abroad. However, if he goes to Germany, he will be able to collect it from there; he has a ban on abroad, and you know that he has to enter and leave that country at certain times. We've petitioned, and we said, "Don't let this citizen be denied this right." He can't even pay his medical bills, and there's a way, by bail, by guarantee of return, that this person will not be denied this right. But, dear friends, we have not yet made our way. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to give you the names of these people once in a while. Please, take care of this. This law does not distribute justice in this way; this law, this judgment does not provide for our needs in this way. Dear friends, another issue is that there's screaming in prisons. In prisons recently... the Bulent Turan just said: "No tolerance for torture." It's very important, but the sounds of torture are coming from prisons, dear friends. The latest witness statements in the Tarosus Type T Closed Prison about abuse and torture have been given for their fathers, for their children, for their children, and for their brothers. They say there's torture in there, that they've been robbed of their rights, taken to a sponge room and beaten. It's a bet, but these are serious allegations, Mr. Secretary. You have to take care of these. If we can't deal with these things, if we think of them as routines, unfortunately, we could go through a lot worse. Another issue is that in prisons, this one type of imposition started one way or another and started to turn prisoners into tortures. Clothes don't get picked up, they don't go out in the common areas, sports rights are being declared. I'd like to present these to you, Mr. Secretary. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Secretary, I'd like to inform you about two individuals in particular. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0243par0659	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. Mr. Secretary would like to make a statement. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0244par0662	Mr. President, thank you for your promise. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, they're constantly interfering with the judge. We've been hearing about things like this. But in this case, a decision has been made as follows: This is the name of this person, this is the file. It is not possible for us to instruct the judiciary here, whether it is necessary or not. The judgment is independent. There's only one thing we can do about this: however, as an administrative officer, we can use whatever the Ministry can do -- the authority of the law -- to save them, of course, to use the right of appreciation to all our citizens. But other than that, there's no way we can make a different decision or order about the cases being carried out. We are able to follow the decisions made during the trial and then from the press. Therefore, make a decision in such a manner as this, remove the arrest, arrest, and give a forensic check. There will be no such thing. But if there's a legal, legal flaw in these issues, our fellow bureaucrats are taking notes, all of our friends, as the Ministry, of course, if there's anything we can do about them, we'll look at them, but there's no way that anyone can instruct the judiciary on this matter. Our esteemed lawmakers are constantly inspected by independent councils in Europe, with joint cooperation. There's zero tolerance for torture on these issues... and we think these allegations have no merit whatsoever. We also have constant audits in our records, but if there's any concrete, etc., in this ward, if there's a visair app, we're always looking into them. Our ministry, our execution guards are sensitive about this. If there's any concrete claims, we'll evaluate them. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0245par0666	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0246par0667	Mr. President, I appreciate Mr. Secretary's explanation, but for the record... Mr. Secretary, don't you think it's a violation of the right to live, the right to freedom, human rights, travel, right to live, every day for five days without turning into a case for three years? Five days for three years... this friend has no chance of getting out of the county. Look, I made it concrete about our mayor.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0245par0669	I don't think there's anything our Minister can do at this stage, and if he does, we'll be interfering with the judiciary.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0246par0670	But to speed up the judgment...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0245par0671	Mr. Secretary has already explained that.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0246par0672	Look, late justice is not justice. Now, if this person's case was accelerated tomorrow, he'd go to trial, he'd be released. Won't we be restricting this person's freedom for five days, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0245par0673	And the Minister said, "If there's already a problem with a quick and fair trial...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0246par0674	Well, there is, Mr. President, I give you an example.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0245par0675	...we'll see that, and we'll take his legal precautions. Our duty is only to this responsibility.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0246par0676	That's exactly what I have to remind you of.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0245par0677	Mr. Secretary, I had to explain, but if there's anything you'd like to add, I promise you. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0247par0679	Thank you, Mr. President. The Court of Judges has begun inspections, as I said yesterday. Intensely, there are inspections, inspections, inspections on cases related to the length of trial or the length of trial. We'll also look into the issues we've been taking on these issues.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0248par0681	The indictment isn't prepared, Minister.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0247par0682	The note system is about promotions, but these will be taken into account, but other than that, make such a decision, make such a decision. We have no instruction. But the burden on the judiciary... there's about 6 million fines and legal files in the year. This is the law we're talking about today, in order to lift this burden on the judiciary completely, radically, and we're continuing our efforts to reduce the burden of justice in compromise, criminal and legal cases. We'll share it with the public. Hopefully, we'll be able to solve the permanent problems. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0249par0684	Thank you. Mr Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoglu will speak second on the same motions. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0250par0688	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the National Movement Party regarding the motion on the 9th Article of Business Courts Act 491 on behalf of our group. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, a general reference is made to Law Code 6100 of Laws No. 6100, in terms of the conditions under which there is no law in order to prevent any hesitation in the application, under Article 9 of the bill. Such issues have been overlooked during the preparation of the proposal, as a precautionary measure for the problems that may be faced in implementing them. Dear lawmakers, it is imperative that the Law on Business Courts, which has been implementing for nearly 70 years, be updated to meet expectations for the needs of today's parties. In doing so, however, the priority should have been to identify the system's failing aspects and make the necessary arrangements. If there had been law studies in our election declarations that would include systematic improvements in basic issues such as the ability of the union and the collective contract system, which we have so many times highlighted, to be able to work together on a common ground, to be carried out with planned and purposeful audits of working life, and to be more aware of workers' social rights and representations, the proposal would now be accepted without discussion. As a result of mandatory mediation in the proposed system, the decision will not be in the favor of the worker who does not technically know what his rights are. The worker may feel that a decision must be reached at the end of mediation, assuming that he has to reach a final decision. It is clear here that the approach to protecting the rights of the party, which has been thought to be weak for years, in terms of the general legal approach and public conscience, has changed. The reason for the proposal is that the conflict with the intermediary system will soon be resolved with less and less expense, the deadline for receiving the worker will be severely shortened, the mediation agency and the parties will meet around a table and contribute to social peace by ending the conflict on the basis of other discrepancies. If your goal is to reach a conclusion, no matter what, then yes, the offer makes it possible, because, as we speak, the steps taken by the worker are quite limited. In particular, it will be difficult for the peacekeepers who may be under the influence of the powerful employer to act in favor of the worker. The unions have been weakened, and the subcontractor system has gone to ununion. In the period after the loss of power, unions had to adopt policies to be close to management rather than seeking rights. Another issue brought to you by the proposal is about the personnel of public economic initiatives. Thousands of people's rights will suddenly change, with the prosecutions of CSI personnel being discussed in business courts. There should be only one reason why such a change is done without an impact analysis, without the opinion of the relevant parties, which is that the OSCE is associated with the asset fund, which is to provide compensation for its staff and to replace it. It would be disrespectful to both moral and moral rights to ignore the rights of employees referred to as employees. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As the National Movement Party has stated at the Commission meeting...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0251par0698	Mr. Ahrazoglu, I'll give you an extra minute. Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0250par0700	Thank you, Mr. President. ...we will continue to support any practice that will allow our government to carry out its mission quickly and fairly, but it states that we are opposed to what we think is contrary to our basic rights, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0251par0703	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. As the final speaker of the same motions, I would like to call Balıkesir MP Ahmet Akin. Here you go, Mr. Akin.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0252par0707	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have taken a pledge from my group on Article 9 of the Law of Business Courts. I hereby salute the High Council with love. We are discussing a bill that is far from business law, although its name is referred to as the Bill of the Law of Business Courts. With this law, known in public as the Law on Arabism, 15 million workers will be deprived of the struggle to seek rights with the State of Emergency regulations of our AKP. With the necessity of mediation, the weak worker will meet in front of a finder, a powerful employer, who is far too strong to compare with his condition. Although after the application, the solution is not mandatory, it is likely that the deadline will work against the weak worker and result in the loss of the worker's rights. With thousands of conflicting issues in Turkey, the mandatory transfer of business disputes to mediators, transfers are a result of the government's years of ununion policy. As stated in our constitution, the Republic of Turkey is a social state, and the social state has to protect our weak worker. Labour law is also organized according to the philosophy of labour protection. It is a constitutional obligation to protect the rights of workers, both in the spirit and in the mouth of the new arrangement. Therefore, it is not acceptable for a strong employer to seek a mandatory mediation in workplace law where a weak worker needs protection or hypothetically, weapons are not equal. The AKP President had already made it clear which side of power he was on. Not a single person of the State of Emergency has been victimized, but 15 million workers are guaranteed to be victims by this law. According to a recent survey of the income and living conditions published by Turkey's Statistical Agency, in 2016, the share of 20 per cent of the richest income from the previous year increased by 0.7 points to 47.2%. This report clearly makes it clear that it is the AKP's policy to make the rich richer and the poor poor poor poorer. The government, which does not only give workers and workers a share without growing up, is victimizing both workers and Turkey with their policies. The international arena also criticised policies in favour of the labour and union rights of power. Due to unjust arrests, expulsions, suspensions, union rights, the closure of many unions during the State of Emergency, the 10th European Regional Assembly of the ILO has not participated in many international unions, protesting the AKP. Unfortunately, the AKP is doing its best to take our country's reputation abroad with its government policies. My dear friends, I invite power, at least, to make an arrangement that will not be a victim to our workers. In our country, where there are already around 15 million workers, it would be best if the Law on Business Courts, which has been in effect since 1950, was updated in a way that is consistent with new developments, needs, and regulations. Of course, understanding the need to seek a new balance between the principle of the protection of the worker and the understanding of the protection of the business is evident. Disregarding the principle of protecting the worker is never acceptable. In general, alternative conflict methods, such as intermediary, are done in situations where the sides are equal. If you think you're going to fix this inequality and bring the employer and the parties together, work life should be effectively and thoroughly supervised. An effective union and collective agreement must be established. A compromise such as this will already reduce the workload of the judiciary and there will be no need for intermediaries. This arrangement will result in new problems against workers and workers, such as there will be no solution to social injustice in the country and the problems of the judiciary. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0253par0717	Thank you, Mr. Akin. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 10 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of the Law Bill 491 is removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Happy Behcet Yıldırım Batman Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0254par0727	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0253par0728	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0255par0729	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0256par0730	Motive...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0253par0731	I'm reading the reason: Since the amendments to the Law on Business Courts No. 5521 have been unprincipled in many previous articles, this clause must also be removed from the bill, which is impossible to accept. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the following correction of the proposed amendment to Article 10 of the Law on Business Courts. The Law on Business Courts No. 10- (1) 30/1/1950 has been lifted from effect. (2) The reference to Law 5521, which has been lifted, has been passed to this Law. Necati Yılmaz Mehmet Gökdağ Zeynel Emre Namik Navutça Cemal Okan Yüksel Kemal Zeybek Gülay Responsor Kazim Asslan Mahmut Tanal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0257par0749	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0253par0750	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0258par0751	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0253par0752	Mr. Yasar Charter will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Charter.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0259par0755	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute you all. I received a speech regarding the motion we submitted on Article 10 of the Law on Business Courts Number 491. The motion has been read, the Commission has not participated in our motion, the government has not joined, I believe it will be voted soon, and the General Assembly will not participate. So I wanted to bring up the problems of our citizens in Muratdere village of Bozük district of Bilcik, my constituency, which is now on Turkey's agenda, more than the content of the motion, and to share that responsibility as district deputy. Dear friends, outside of politics, I'd like to give you a presentation beyond politics. On 9 September, a month ago, a forest fire broke out in Domanic district of the district of Kütahya, which was his constituency district. This fire was a really small fire in the first place. Then, our villagers, our citizens, are applying to the forest management office, the district administration, the headquarters, there are bigger fires, and you do the necessary measures as peasants. It's not the first time they're interrupted. Then, with the wind, this fire grew very seriously to the border of Bozyuk district of Bilecik Province. As lawmakers, along with my other fellow MP Halil Bey, our mayors, members of the county council, forest management directors from surrounding provinces, we believe we have done so... but with a co-ordination disorder, we have been unable to intervene, fire, dozer, laden, or even helicopter, and this fire has gone on for six days, and it has all burned to about 500 hectares of trees in the area due to fire. I don't want to go into those other plants, living things. Now there's a matter of rant here. It's been debated in public. Well, friends, unfortunately, right after this fire, as you're all going from the nearby Eskişehir to Bursa, where you're all going from Bursa to Eskişehir-Ankara, we're going to call the Strait of the Mezits, the beautiful, natural paradise corner, where we call it, and where the region gets oxygen, a company has obtained a copper quarry license, and they've started CED operations on it. There are over 500 hectares of fire on one side, which is delayed for various reasons, and just 20 days later, the licensed company is attempting to open a copper mine. Dear friends, we have a January license of 210,000 hectares. 72,000 trees will be destroyed here. The other day, our members of the Bilcik County General Assembly, the AKP, the MP, the People of the CHP -- no matter what -- went to the area, 20 of our friends went to the area, where they studied, decided that this license had to be revoked, but the authorities of the relevant company made the necessary initiatives from the Ministry, and our work is tied up from above, and you can't interfere with us. Dear lawmakers, these forests are our nation's wealth and our region's oxygen supply; let's not kill these forests. Currently, residents of the village of Muratdere in Bozük district are here, hungry and waiting out in the open. It is our duty, as Parliament, as the High Assembly, to address this persecution of our people. There's nothing political about this, I'm asking you. Minister, you're sitting on behalf of the government. There is such a problem with our region; come, let us all resolve this problem together; give instructions to the ministry, to the necessary general administration, to the necessary directorship in the name of the government, and let us save this natural wealth of our Bilicik, this national wealth, and salute the General Assembly with respect.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0260par0762	Thank you, Mr. Charter. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0261par0764	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0260par0765	Mr. Cantaloupe, please.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0261par0766	Sir, the orator hinted that he had been removed from the Domanic fire on purpose in connection with this fire, and that there was not sufficient interference. I'd like to make a brief statement.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0260par0767	Here, I promise you for a minute.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0261par0770	Mr. President, dear friends, yes, we were faced with a forest fire that started in our Domanic region and then spread across the Bilicik borders, burning our insides. Of course, it's a task above set for all of us to discuss, to address, to address, to seek solutions, to discuss, and to address the problems associated with this fire, but in the speech of the count, correct me if I've misunderstood, but I understand so -- let's not kill our forests. This is a matter that will be severely rejected and invited to prove itself. There was no intervention from the helicopters, you say. I was in the air with the director of the forest himself. In the two and a half hours of the night, we were in the village of Camilija in Bozüzük, with our deputy Halil. And in these areas, we've been able to give our dedicated forest members all of the state's resources... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I also feel that our Forestry Directorate, who piled up there, has been severely wronged. At this point, the necessary intervention has been done. There could be setbacks, they'll be looked at. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0262par0775	Thank you, Mr. Cantaloupe.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0263par0776	Mr. President, an additional...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0264par0777	Mr. President, one more sentence for Mr. Yasar.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0262par0778	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0263par0780	Mr. President, I was there as a member of the district in what he said. The directorate of the forest of the Republic of Turkey had only one helicopter. At 1900 a.m., after dark, it was out of order.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0262par0781	I was in the air. It says our congressman.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0265par0782	Sir, we've intercepted 12 helicopters.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0263par0783	Then it was done.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0265par0784	Twelve helicopters, four planes. Pity!
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0263par0785	Mr. President, after the fifth day of intervention, the number of helicopters has increased. Here's the thing: there's a license in that area right now, in that village -- and so does our member of parliament -- that's a matter of close interest to Bilecik, which will cut down 72,000 hectares of 210,000 hectares of trees. The work continues. Since he's our Kütahya MP, our dear friend may not know. So at the point of this being stopped, we sent our request to the government.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0266par0786	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0265par0787	Mr. Charter, I would like to inform you that...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0267par0788	Wait a minute... wait a minute... Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0268par0790	Mr. President, a joint decision has been made by groups regarding the 10th article, and then we know that they're going to wish you well about the fire and all that, but a polemic has been initiated. That's not true, sir.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0267par0791	I'll intervene, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0268par0792	So the preacher did it wrong, so answer me in return, and then answer without picking on me again...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0267par0793	Now, look, Mr. Charter spoke, and Mr. Tutucu answered him.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0268par0794	We thought there was a fire right now. I mean, unfortunately...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0267par0795	They used their natural rights, they used their natural rights from the Charter, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0268par0796	Our fellow lawmakers need to take care of that.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0267par0797	You're right, Mr. Akçay, but...
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0268par0798	Our speakers have withdrawn, our motions... it shouldn't be done like this.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0267par0799	Mr. Akçay, look, Mr. Charter has just spoken on the motion, Mr. Katucu has responded to it, and it's over.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0268par0800	There was no discussion of the motion, sir, there was no discussion of the motion.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0267par0801	I had to give it to the lawmakers.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0268par0802	As other groups... it's been wronged.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0269par0803	Let's stick to our promise.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0270par0804	Mr. Erkan is right, Mr. President. We agreed on a principle, but it was a misappropriate procedure.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0271par0808	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of law shall be changed in the form of these laws. İsmail Faruk Aksu Zühal Topcu Deniz Depboylu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0272par0816	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0271par0817	Government?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0273par0818	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0271par0819	Am I making you read the reason, Mr. Akchay?
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0274par0820	Get him to read the reason.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit03spe0271par0821	I'm reading the reason: With this change, the decision of matter is expected to be made clearer and clearer. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 10th article is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-10-05sit04spe0271par0001	I open the Fourth Session of Turkey's 4th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of Bill 491. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin negotiations with Law Bill 461 in the 2nd place and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will no longer be available, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (October 10, 2017) to discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues. I'm closing the meeting at 00, and I wish you a good weekend.
